K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the handling of two claims made under his commercial  public liability 
and legal expenses  policy with Ageas Insurance Limited. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter setting  out the background to the complaint, 
each partys submissions and my provisional findings, in January 2019. I invited both parties  
to respond with any further information  or arguments they want  considered. Ive copied part 
of my provisional decision below:  
Mr B  a sole trader   is unhappy that Ageas has rejected two claims he has made under 
his legal expenses  insurance policy. 
Mr B took out a legal  expenses policy with Ageas on 12 September  2014  and the policy 
renewed on 12 September  2015. When his policy with Ageas ended in September 2016 he 
took similar insurance with another insurer. 
In September  2017, Mr B received a solicitors  letter from a customer  hed done work for in 
2015 (carpentry claim) and in October  2017, Mr B received a court claim from another 
customer in relation to work he had also done  during  the time he was insured by Ageas 
(sign claim). Both customers claimed that Mr Bs work had been inadequate.  
Mr Bs insurer at the time refused to meet his claims, as that policy excluded claims about 
events that arise before the cover. And Ageas refused to cover the claims as its policy  is a 
claims made policy, meaning  a claim had to be made during the term of the policy and a 
claim couldnt be accepted after the policy had lapsed.
Mr B says that due to the dispute between the two insurers, judgment was entered  against 
him in relation to the sign claim but as he had sub-contracted  this work out, he claimed 
against the sub-contractor.
I understand that we have considered a separate complaint  about  the current insurer and we 
concluded that it was entitled to refuse cover on the basis  the events leading to the 
insurance claims had started before the start date of that policy.  
One of our investigators  looked into this complaint about Ageas and she recommended  that 
the complaint  should be upheld, as she was not persuaded that Ageas was prejudiced by 
the late notification  of the claims. Mr B had paid a premium for his cover,  and there was no 
evidence that it made  a difference  that his claims  were not submitted earlier.  Both disputes 
about the standard of work had started  when Mr B held the cover with Ageas and she said it 
is likely  that no action  would have been  taken  even if Mr B had reported the matters to 
Ageas within  its period  of cover; its likely  it would have  told him to revert to it later if the 
matters progressed.  
The investigator recommended  that Ageas should  reconsider  the claims under the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Ageas does not accept the investigators  assessment. It has made a number of submissions,  
which Ive summarised below: 
Ref: DRN04108762the claim should have  been considered by Mr Bs current insurers. The late 
notification of the claim had prejudiced its position and the claim isnt covered, as it 
had been made after the policy had ended. Notification after a policy has lapsed  on a 
claims-made policy is not akin to breach of a late notification  policy  condition.
The policy premium is based  upon a claims made model and assessing or
paying a claim after the cover  has lapsed means  the insurer  is penalised as the 
premium is being used for a claim which isnt valid against the policy terms. 
Ageas  doesnt  build in an amount for any risk that a claim may be made after the 
policy has lapsed. 
It has therefore suffered financial prejudice, which should be taken into account. 
It is very concerned about the stance  being taken by an allegedly impartial  review  
service, where it appears that absolutely no regard is paid to the basis  of contract  or 
any legal  principal.   
Claims made policies are common and the terms of the policy  are clear. It is wrong 
to disregard those  policy terms. 
If the argument is that this is purely a late notification issue,  then the impact  on run 
off insurance has to also be considered, as essentially  we would render this product 
useless and it would mean that on an industry wide level it is being mis-sold.
Previous decisions made have said it should  consider  the date of knowledge of a 
legal claim as being the date that a claim should  be considered from. If this complaint 
is upheld, this will be at odds with those decisions. 
It seems  absurd to disregard a basis of contract  and advise an insurer  to pick up a 
claim, when the current insurer  is only relying on an exclusion within the policy in 
relation to the contract being pre-inception, even though  the client  had continuous  
and equivalent  cover from this date.  
Although Ageas didnt accept the investigators  assessment  of the complaint, I understand 
that it did start communication with Mr Bs solicitor, as there  was a threat of proceedings 
being issued imminently on the carpentry claim, and on the basis that it will save  time if my 
decision is in line with the investigators  assessment.
I understand that both legal claims have moved on since the complaint was first brought  to 
us. Mr B has told us he has settled the case he was bringing against the sub-contractor for 
around £12,000 less than he was owed because he could not afford  to continue the claim to 
court. He will also have  to pay legal fees of just over £1,000.
The carpentry claim is now at the point of court proceedings and he is being advised  to settle 
but his solicitor is not expert in construction  litigation  he has been at a disadvantage because 
Ageas has not supported him. He now has a quantity surveyors report,  which proves the  
claim against him has been inflated  and he has made an offer at a more realistic  figure.
Mr B has also said he has suffered a great deal of stress as a result of the handling of his 
claim, he had to take out a loan to settle the claim with one of the claimants as he could not 
afford to pay it while he tried to seek recovery from his sub- contractor. 
He has also provided  a recent email from Ageass claims-handlers which says it wont 
consider any costs incurred before the formal acceptance of the claim, including costs 
involved in the solicitors responding to requests for information from them.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  referred  to me.
 
Ref: DRN04108763my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageass policy  states that it is a claims-made policy and will only cover claims notified to it 
within the period  of the policy. 
The Insurance: Conduct of Business sourcebook  (ICOBS) has a general rule that an insurer 
must not reject a claim for breach of a warranty or condition unless the circumstances of the 
claim are connected to the breach. 
Part of the investigators view was based  on the fact she thought  that Ageas hadnt been  
prejudiced by the late notification of the claims. I also need  to consider what is fair and 
reasonable generally in all the circumstances. 
The claims made nature of the policy gives a window of opportunity (the policy period) for a 
claim to be made. Where  a policyholder  misses that opportunity,  cover  is denied entirely. 
Ageas says that Mr B chose to take a claims made policy and this is a common  type of 
policy term in the insurance industry.
However, I think it is unlikely that a consumer would realise the different  types  of legal 
expenses policies that are available. And given that he had continuous  cover  throughout the 
time when  he carried  out the work  complained of and when the claims arose, I can 
understand why he is very unhappy that neither insurer would agree to cover him.  
Mr B held the policy with Ageas at the time the work complained of were carried out and at 
the time that the customers in relation to both claims first expressed  dissatisfaction  about the 
work. If Mr B had notified Ageas when he first knew they first complained about his work,  
Ageas would more  likely than not have considered the claim in line with the other policy 
terms. Its also likely it would have told Mr B to contact it again, if the complaints escalated to 
the point of needing legal advice.  
No evidence has been provided to me to show that the late notification  of the claim would 
prejudice the potential legal claim or affected  Ageas  ability  to fairly assess  the claim or 
prejudiced it in any other way. Ageas says it has been financially prejudiced  because  its 
premium income for the year the claim was submitted  doesnt  take account  of possible 
claims made  on previous  years cover. I note what it says but I am not persuaded that it 
means the claim should be refused  on that basis. Mr B paid a premium for cover,  which he 
was entitled to claim under and theres  no evidence that his claims will costs  Ageas any 
more now than if he had made them earlier. 
So, while I accept there has been  late notification, Im not satisfied that Ageas decision to 
refuse cover simply on this basis is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. I have  taken 
on board  Ageass comment that the nature of claims made policies isnt to provide  ongoing  
cover, even  after the policy has ended. And I accept this. But in the circumstances of this 
case, I dont consider it is fair that Mr Bs claims be refused on this basis.  The disputes that 
led to the claims happened within its period of insurance so I think  its fair that Ageas provide 
cover. 
This isnt to say the term is unreasonable in principle or that wed expect Ageas to continue 
to provide cover in all cases after the policy ends. But in the particular circumstances of this 
Ref: DRN04108764case, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Ageas  to assess  Mr Bs claim according to 
the policy terms and conditions, but not taking into account the fact that the claim was made  
late. 
In short,  this means that Ageas should assess whether Mr Bs claims have reasonable 
prospects of success,  among other  things. If they are assessed as having  prospects then 
Ageas should  cover  legal  expenses as per the terms of the policy. 
I am pleased  to note that Ageas agreed to comply with the investigators assessment to save 
time and assess the claims  while waiting  for this decision. 
However, I understand Ageas  has told Mr B that as he has settled the sign claim, there are 
no costs to cover. However, if the claim is assessed  as having had prospects all along, it 
should reimburse those costs incurred from the time when it should have agreed cover. 
Mr B says he settled the sign writing  claim at a lower  figure because of the lack of support 
from Ageas  but I have  no convincing evidence to support  that. If Mr Bs solicitors advised  
that the offer he received was a reasonable one, then this would have been  the case 
whether he was insured or not. But if Mr B is able to provide further  evidence  about this, I will 
consider it. 
Ageas has also apparently told Mr B that it will not pay costs incurred in relation  to the 
carpentry case before its formal acceptance  of the claim  but given that it unfairly refused the 
claim in my opinion, this will have caused delay in the claim being accepted if there  are 
prospects. I dont therefore agree  that it is fair to only indemnify costs  incurred  after its formal 
acceptance. Cover should  be backdated  to the date that cover  should have been confirmed. 
In the absence of any other evidence at this stage, I propose that this should  be the date   
Mr B submitted the claims. However,  both parties can provide evidence about this in 
response to my provisional  decision if they wish.  
I also intend to award  £300 compensation to Mr B in relation to the delay in properly 
assessing his clams.  
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
assess Mr Bs claims, subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions (but not 
the terms relating  to late notification  and the fact that the policy  is a claims made 
one);
if the claims are accepted, cover should  be backdated to the date Mr B submitted 
each claim and costs paid by Mr B after those dates reimbursed  together  with 
interest at 8% simple  per annum from the date he paid them to the date of 
reimbursement; and 
pay Mr B £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of his claims.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
evidence they want considered. 
Mr Bs response to my provisional  decision 
Ref: DRN04108765The insurance cover with Ageas was for Public and Employers  Liability plus legal 
cover. Ageas  should  therefore be looking at the two cases with the entire cover in 
mind, not just the legal costs. This is an extremely important  factor  in his complaint. 
If Ageas had stepped in when he first approached them, the course  of action and 
outcome for both cases would  have been  completely different. 
He paid for insurance cover to protect his company  and  expected to be able to rely 
on Ageas to assess which part or parts  of the insurance a claim fell under and at 
least be given some sort of guidance.  
Both claims against him have involved sub-contractors work  being at fault, one relies 
on contract responsibilities.
With regard to the sign claim: he accepts my provisional decision that Ageas should 
pay his legal costs  for this and asks for confirmation  that this includes  court  fees and 
other legal  costs, not just the solicitors  fees? And also wants confirmation this will be 
at the rate he actually had to pay the solicitors. 
I said there was no evidence of other losses incurred due to Ageass failure to cover  
the sign claim, including that he settled the claim with the sub-contractor for a much 
reduced sum. He has supplied a timeline of events and correspondence leading  up 
to this and has also asked his solicitor for evidence to support our claim for loss of 
costs.
If cover had been granted in time the sub-contractor  would have  been  joined into the 
proceedings against B and most of the costs would have been directed against them 
and not him. 
He would also not have had to pay the settlement (which he had to fund with a five 
year loan) and then incur costs trying to recover some of it from the sub-contractor.
His businesss credit  rating was affected,  making  it difficult to obtain  essential loans 
to run our company efficiently; his trade accounts  were  frozen  or reduced and 
applying for new trade accounts has been very difficult. This has all accumulated  in 
having a severe  detrimental effect  on the running of the company and will do for 
some time.
Two development  plots  he owns with Planning Permission for three  houses  have  
remained at a stand-still since the court  papers and CG were  issued  because  his 
credit rating has affected his ability to obtain  a development loan. These  houses  
would have been built and sold by now with a predicted profit  of £600,000.
He also lost the on-going maintenance contract  with the resort  that had contracted  
with him for the sign work. This resulted in a loss of business income of around  
£70,000 per annum.  
With regard to the Carpentry Claim, he is concerned that Ageas will look for evidence  
to prove  that the claim does not have reasonable prospects of success. 
The claim was initially £7,500 in June 2017.  He followed correct procedures  in trying  
to reconcile with the client many  times  before the claimant instructed a solicitor,  but 
were refused each  time. He replied  to the claim and received no further indication 
that the claimant would take the matter further.  Then  in September  2017 he received 
the same  claim from a different solicitor for a larger amount of money; this has 
subsequently escalated to £48,000  and is still mounting. If Ageas had taken on the 
case when first notified the costs would have been minimal  to all parties involved. 
In view of all this, he doesnt accept that £300 compensation is enough. 
He has spent many, many hours  collating information and evidence, filling in forms 
and making telephone  calls towards  our case against Ageas and travelling to see 
solicitors etc. 
Ref: DRN04108766Mr B has provided a time line for each  claim and costs analysis of what  theyve paid 
so far and included  in that his time and his wifes time in dealing  with the claim, 
insurance claim and complaint. For the carpentry claim a total of just under £10,000  
and the sign claim over £60,000. 
Ageass response to my provisional decision
Ageas doesnt  accept  my provisional  decision and has made  a number of further 
submissions, summarised below:  
 due to my stance on this matter,  all policyholders may see an increase in the 
premium paid for cover, as it needs  to build in additional premium to cover claims 
which are deemed  to be "accepted" despite  them not meeting policy  terms and 
conditions. 
 Given that the premium for a typical legal expenses policy  is between  £5.00 and 
£30.00, but claims  can run into thousands,  impact of accepting  claims that do not 
meet the policy contractual  terms can have  is significant. 
 From reviewing  the decision,  it is at best contradictory to avoid the FOS taking a 
stance that clearly contradicts an accepted Insurance  basis for contract. It seems  
remiss to state  that claims made is a valid basis for contract, then to
state in this matter  you deem that no prejudice  has been caused,  but this doesnt 
mean that this will always  be the case.
I would  also take this opportunity to set out the position In relation to the claims that 
the client is pursuing. I would point out that In October 2017, it only received a call 
from the clients broker which revolved around  whether it accepted  claims after the 
policy had expired, no details were  submitted  for review. 
It was not even provided with a client name, if the Broker felt that the decision was 
wrong it could have submitted a claim for full review. It was not until April 2018 that it 
received any details of the sign claim and not until May 2018  that the broker sent any 
information in relation  to the second claim.  As such, it says it Is unreasonable to 
suggest that it should consider any costs  prior to these  dates  as it had no details of 
the claims. 
Having said that it agrees  the following in relation to the two claims: 
Sign claim
The judgement  award  Increased  as this was not settled by the client  until a High 
Court Enforcement Notice was issued. Regardless of the Insurance  position,  the 
client needed to ensure his position  was not prejudiced, and indeed increased  costs 
by not taking action on the judgement.
The insurance would never cover  any settlement  amount or judgement  that was 
awarded. 
The claim against the sub-contractor was not time sensitive and Mr B had legal 
representation, so if the amount  offered in settlement wasnt enough, it should not 
have been accepted.  
Overall, however, it will consider  the costs incurred but would request details of the 
same for further review.
Carpentry claim  
Ref: DRN04108767It has asked for some  further  information from the solicitors to establish  the present 
position, prospects  of success and quantum. Mr Bs solicitor has not responded since  
October 2018, Mr B is aware  of this. It is happy  to review this claim but it needs the 
solicitors cooperation.  
If Mr B wants a panel solicitor to review the claim then it can facilitate this, but Mr B 
will need  to confirm  this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageass overall  objections  to my provisional  findings that it should have considered  these 
claims under its policy are noted. I however, remain of the opinion that it is reasonable that it 
be the insurer that meets these claims, given the particular circumstances of Mr Bs case,  
where he had continuous  legal expenses  cover and the claim is also excluded under the 
other policy.
It has agreed to consider  the costs incurred  by Mr B in relation to the sign claim.  It is entitled 
to details from the solicitor  and to assess them for reasonableness  in terms of time sent and 
work don. However,  I confirm that it should reimburse any costs  at the hourly rate actually 
charged to Mr B; and any other associated legal costs if they were incurred after the claim 
was made.  
Mr B has provided a lot of evidence about  additional losses  that he says arise  directly from 
the failure to meet this claim  when it was first made. While I can understand that it was an 
extremely difficult time for him and he was left unrepresented for a while,  I am not convinced 
that it is reasonable to require Ageas to reimburse all these losses.  He was required to 
mitigate his own position  and while it may have been difficult,  he needed to respond to the 
court before judgement was made  and he needed  to make the payment. 
The policy I have only provides cover for legal fees,  not for any liability  payment. So Mr B 
would have had to get the loan anyway. Mr B says that if hed had cover, he would never 
have had to pay this amount himself but I am not persuaded there is enough evidence for 
me to be certain about that. 
I also note he was represented when he agreed  the settlement  with the sub-contractor. And 
Ive seen no evidence  that this was done against legal advice. 
In addition, most of the time and effort in meeting with solicitors  and gathering  evidence  and 
so on would have  been necessary anyway. 
With regard to the carpentry claim, Mr B says he needs advice on how to ensure the case is 
assessed fairly. He does  need to try and get his solicitors to cooperate  and if they can 
provide an assessment of prospects of the claim that would assist. If he no longer wants  
them to act for him he can agree  to a panel solicitor looking at the matter.  Whichever  
solicitors assess  it, they will have a professional duty to Mr B. 
With regard to the compensation I proposed to award, I can understand Mr Bs position. He 
has been through an extremely  difficult time. However, I remain of the opinion  that £300  is 
appropriate, as most  of the distress and inconvenience is in relation to the legal  claims.
   
Ref: DRN04108768my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
assess Mr Bs claims, subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions (but not 
the terms relating  to late notification  and the fact that the policy  is a claims made 
one);
if the claims are accepted, cover should  be backdated to the date Mr B submitted 
each claim and costs paid by Mr B after those dates reimbursed  together  with 
interest at 8% simple  per annum from the date he paid them to the date of 
reimbursement; and 
pay Mr B £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of his claims.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0410876