K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that AmTrust Europe Limited is responsible  for poor service  in 
connection with their home emergency  insurance  policy.
background 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with consumer complaints against  insurance 
companies and other regulated financial firms. Where the complaint is about a claim under 
an insurance policy, we deal with it as a complaint against the insurance company 
responsible for dealing  with the claim.
In our final decision we name the insurance  company  but we dont name other companies or 
individuals. 
Mrs R had an agreement branded with the name  of an energy group company. It covered an 
annual boiler service. That was to be provided  by the energy group company.
The agreement included cover  for repairs. AmTrust was the insurance company responsible  
for dealing  with claims for repairs. Where I refer to AmTrust  or the insurance company, I 
include the energy  group  company and individuals insofar as I hold AmTrust responsible for 
their actions.
As Mrs R was living with Mr R I think its fair to say he also had the benefit of the insurance.
In December 2018 Mrs R was pregnant. She and Mr R already had a young child living with 
them.
Their boiler stopped providing central  heating and hot water.  So they called  the energy group 
company for help.
They complained that there were wasted visits and it took nearly three weeks to repair  their 
boiler. They incurred  extra electricity costs for fan heaters.  Also their health suffered.
The energy  group company apologised  to Mr and Mrs R and offered to pay them £120.00    
for the distress and inconvenience they were caused.
Our investigator dealt  with the complaint as though it were  against the energy group 
company. He recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought that - given the 
number of visits that took place over 18 days - the level of compensation ought  to be 
increased. He recommended that the energy  company should increases the level of 
compensation to £300.00.
The energy  company agreed with the investigators  opinion. It says it sent a further payment 
of £180.00.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed  with the investigators opinion.  They  asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They  say, in summary,  that:
£300.00 is not enough as this only covers the money they have lost and does not 
account for any mental, physical  or emotional discomfort. 
Ref: DRN07892662£500.00 would be more acceptable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From my review of what Mr and Mrs R and the energy group company have each said, I 
have counted six or seven visits from 2 to 18 December 2018.
In its final response letter  the company said the following:
boiler maintenance is not an exact  science; any given symptoms may be indicative 
of several different and unrelated faults. 
From my experience of dealing with complaints about repairs, I accept that a number of 
visits may be reasonably  necessary to replace  some  parts before identifying a need to 
replace others.
However, I consider  that  after the visit on 7 December 2018 - the company shouldve 
realised that Mr and Mrs R were a priority case because  of their young child and Mrs Rs 
pregnancy. She was evidently distressed on the telephone.
Yet I have noted  some significant  delays  between visits,  most notably between the visits on 
7 and 14 December  2018.
Mr and Mrs R had the benefit of fan heaters. But that was no substitute  for central  heating  
and hot water in the cold weather of December 2018. 
Mr and Mrs R have said that the fan heaters  increased their electricity  bill from their normal 
£25.00 for a typical  month to £70.00 for just for those few days. But in my view, some  of that 
was inevitable. 
I havent seen  enough detail (such  as meter readings) to find the insurance company 
responsible for a financial loss. I accept that part of Mr and Mrs Rs upset was concern  about 
their electricity bill.
Mrs R and her son became unwell. But I havent seen enough medical evidence to show that 
this was caused by lack of central heating.
Mrs R says she works as a self -employed contractor on a daily rate of £75.00. She says she 
missed 5 days of work for engineers visits. And I find it likely that 2 of those visits were  
unproductive. But I havent seen  enough  evidence to show  that Mrs R couldnt make  up the 
time later. So I dont  find the insurance  company responsible for a loss of earnings.
I keep in mind the cold weather and Mr and Mrs Rs concern for each other, their child and 
her pregnancy. I also keep in mind that she was distressed and unwell. I dont doubt  that 
some of such distress and inconvenience  was caused by shortcomings in dealing  with the 
claim. 
Overall I agree with the investigator  that £300.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for 
this. 
Ref: DRN07892663The energy  group company says it has paid that amount.  Mr and Mrs R havent  either  
disputed receipt of the first payment of £120.00 or confirmed the more recent payment of 
£180.00. So I will direct  the insurance  company to pay £300.00 insofar as the energy group 
company hasnt already paid it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
AmTrust Europe Limited to pay Mr and Mrs R (jointly and insofar as the energy group 
company hasnt already paid it) £300.00  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 May 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0789266