K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that she was mis-sold a monthly  premium payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy  in October 1994.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
background
Miss D bought the policy in October 1994. The PPI was sold to her when  she applied for a 
store card by filling in a leaflet while in a store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why below.
FICL has provided us with a copy of Miss Ds credit agreement. This shows Miss D was 
given the option of adding  the PPI to her store card. Under the section Payment and Card 
Protection Miss D was given the option  of selecting whether or not she wanted  the PPI 
added to her store  card. Looking at Miss Ds credit  agreement , I can see she ticked the box 
next to the statement Yes, I want my account covered with Payment Protection  plus 12 
months Purchase Cover.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely than not Miss D would have 
understood the PPI, was optional. And I dont think she would have ticked  the box for the 
PPI if she didnt want to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss D so it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss D got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been  particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Miss D chose to take out the 
PPI, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical  conditions - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Ref: DRN08632562Miss D has told us she would have received at least three months sick pay from her 
employer if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us that she could have relied on her 
grandparents to help her with her repayments.
Having thought about what  Miss D has said about  her sick pay, I dont think this means she 
wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would  have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Miss D would have received from her employer and would have  paid 
out for longer. The PPI also would have  paid a benefit if Miss D was ever made redundant.
Ive also thought about what  Miss D has said about  the fact that she could have relied on her 
grandparents to help her with her repayments.  Again, I dont think  this meant  that the PPI 
wasnt useful for her. While Miss Ds grandparents  would want to help, their financial 
situation could  change and so this help couldnt  always be relied on.
So overall, I think Miss D could have found  the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times 
and I dont think that any better information  would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 October  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0863256