K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited applied unfair end of 
contract charges  when  she returned  the vehicle at the end of her hire purchase agreement. 
She wants the disputed  charges removed.
background
Mrs C tells us she got an invoice for damage  charges of £587.40 (plus VAT) when she 
returned her vehicle although  this was later reduced. She disputes  some of the charges as 
she feels they were within  fair and tear. And she says VWFS has refused to provide her with 
evidence that the repairs were done.
VWFS said it had applied charges in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) guidelines.  It said it had removed  charges of £63.60 as the 
photographic images werent sufficiently clear. But that the other  charges  would  remain.
Our investigator issued  a view in which he said that the charges applied  by VWFS were in 
line with the BVRLA  guidelines. So he thought  they were fairly imposed.
Mrs C didnt agree with this outcome and felt some of the charges were  unfair.  She also 
challenged if she should pay VAT.  As its not been  possible  to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that it would  be disappointing  for Mrs C to be faced with additional expense  at 
the end of the finance agreement.
The inspection of the vehicle was carried out by an independent inspection  business. And 
the report it provided was accompanied by photographs  of the areas  of alleged damage.
Ive also viewed two videos which I understand were supplied by Mrs C.
Our investigators view and subsequent response to specific queries raised by Mrs C set out 
in detail why he felt that the damage fell outside the BVRLA guidelines. As the parties have 
seen this, I shant  repeat  it.
Mrs C accepted some of the charges  were  justified but continued to challenge some of the 
other charges that had been  applied. Specifically in relation  to a dent (£138) and multiple 
bumper scratches (£110.40). 
I confirm that Ive viewed  the relevant photographs and concur with the description of the 
damage these are said to depict. I also find it falls outside BRLA  guidelines. And thats its 
fair and reasonable for VWFS to apply charges.
The finance  agreement required  Mrs C to keep  the vehicle in good condition.
Ref: DRN05583222Clause 3.2 states:
You will be responsible for any damage  to or deterioration of the Vehicle which  is in excess 
of fair wear  and tear commensurate with the age and mileage of the vehicle   
And BVRLA  guidance  states:
charges can still be applied at the end of lease in cases  where the leasing company decides 
for commercial reasons not to repair damage  before the vehicle is sold.  
The approach of this service  is that provided the charges are a fair and reasonable estimate  
of the diminution  in value of the vehicle due to the damage, then a business  can apply 
charges.
Where I find that Mrs C makes a valid point is in relation to VAT.  I arranged  for VWFS to be 
advised that I didnt that the VAT element of the charges was fair.  I didnt feel the business  
had incurred any loss in this respect. I asked VWFS if it wished to comment  but Ive not 
received any reply.  So Ive assumed it doesnt wish to add anything.
As the vehicle hasnt  been repaired there is no actual VAT payment for which  the business is 
liable. This mightve  fallen  due if the repairs had been carried  out. The VAT element wouldnt 
have been retained by the business. So here the only loss to the business is the estimated 
diminution in the value  of the vehicle.  
Although I dont apply  the law directly  I take it into account. And I dont believe that a court 
would add VAT to any damages it awarded  only in respect of diminution in value. And where 
no repairs (which mightve  attracted VAT) had been  undertaken. 
If the business hasnt suffered a loss by having  to make a VAT payment then its not fair and 
reasonable to charge Mrs C for that aspect.
To that extent only, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I find that VWFS  shouldnt  apply VAT to the 
charges.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint but only in 
part. 
I require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to remove  the VAT which has been  
applied to the charges for damage.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2021.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0558322