K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the settlement The Society  of Lloyds offered for his car under his 
motor insurance policy.  He wants his position  restored.
background
Mr M was in an accident and his rare car was deemed to be beyond  economical repair. 
Lloyds offered him its market value up to the limit on his schedule of insurance, £9,500,  less 
the policy excess. But Mr M said he couldnt  get a like for like replacement for this 
settlement. He thought the car was worth  between £13,000 and £16,000.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think  it was fair 
for Lloyds  to rely on the limit on the schedule. He thought Lloyds own engineer  had valued  
the car at £12,000 and Lloyds had found evidence of the cars  market value as £15,000. So 
he thought Lloyds should offer Mr M £15,000 in settlement of his claim and consider any 
further submissions Mr M made.
Lloyds replied that it relied on the policy wording that the most it would pay was the schedule 
value. It said Mr M had underinsured  his car. It asked for an ombudsmans  review,  so the 
complaint has come  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to car valuations is that we dont  provide valuations for cars but seek  to 
assess whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
Lloyds said Mr Ms policy  didnt provide for a like for like replacement  in the case  of its total 
loss. It said the policy  terms and conditions set out that the maximum it would pay was the 
stated value of the car on the schedule.  
But the policy wasnt an agreed value policy. Mr Ms policy  provides  for the market  value of 
his car at the time of its loss in the case of total loss. I dont think Mr M expected his cars  
value to increase.  So I dont  think its fair for Lloyds to rely on the value that Mr M stated 
when he first took out the policy. I think it should  reasonably offer him the cars market value 
at the time of its loss. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer for the market value has been  made,  we obtain 
valuations from motor-trade guides.  These  are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We 
find these guides  to be particularly persuasive,  largely because  their valuations  are based on 
nationwide research  and likely  sales  figures. The guides also take into account regional 
variations. We also take all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers 
reports.
The usual trade guides that we use didnt provide valuations for Mr Ms car. But Lloyds 
provided evidence  from a specialist guide for rare cars that the cars  retail market value was 
£15,000. Lloyds  own engineer assessed the cars pre-accident value at £12,000.  But I cant 
see that he justified  the reduction  in value from £15,000. He said hed valued  the car based 
on the average of valuations  provided  by an internet search. 
Ref: DRN04610002So I think its fairer to rely on the trade  guide valuation  in keeping with our approach. And so 
I think Lloyds should pay Mr M £15,000,  less his policy excess,  in settlement of his claim 
following the total loss of his car. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require The Society of Lloyds to pay Mr M 
£15,000, less his policy excess, in total settlement of his claim following the total loss of his 
car. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019. 
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0461000