K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do more  to help them when  they were  
the victim of a scam.
background
In October  2015, Mr M bought airline tickets through a website. He transferred just over 
£1,600. He later discovered that hed been  the victim of a scam. Although the website had 
been set up to look like that of a genuine  merchant, it was a fake. He says that he contacted  
Lloyds to let it know  and to ask that it help him recover the money hed lost. As the flights 
were for an essential trip, he says he needed  to take out a loan in order to be able to pay for 
genuine tickets.  Lloyds says it has no record of receiving this call from Mr M in 2015  
regarding the transaction  and so no steps were taken to assist Mr M with recovering the 
payment.
In May 2018, Mr M called Lloyds to complain that it hadnt done  enough  to recover the 
money he lost. Lloyds said that it had no record of him calling them about the transaction 
back in 2015.  It was now far too late for it to attempt to recover  the money via a chargeback. 
Mr M was unhappy with this response  and so he referred his complaint  to this service.  
It was looked  at by an investigator who didnt uphold it. The investigator  said that there 
wasnt enough evidence  to support Mr Ms claim that hed asked Lloyds to help back in 
2015. The investigator also didnt think that Lloyds had any reason to suspect that the 
transaction wasnt genuine at the time so she didnt think it should  have  raised any concerns 
with Mr M then or stopped the payment.
Mr M responded to say that he did make  the phone call back  in 2015  and Lloyds  shouldve  
acted then. Because Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case has been 
referred to me to come  to a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  But that isnt the end of the story. There are 
circumstances where  a bank should carry out additional checks before processing a 
payment to protect  customers from the possibility of financial  harm. In this particular case,  I 
dont think Lloyds wouldve had any reasonable  basis for stopping  the payment. Ill explain 
why.
The transaction wouldve appeared legitimate given the name  of the merchant  that was 
receiving the payment.  Although I accept the payment was relatively large, it wasnt  so large  
that Id have expected Lloyds to make  additional enquiries with Mr M before processing it. 
There was also still a healthy balance of over £4,000 in the account after it had taken  place. 
Taking all of that into account,  Im not persuaded Lloyds did anything wrong in not subjecting 
this payment to closer  scrutiny and stopping it from being processed at the time.
Ref: DRN09233572Ive gone on to consider the crux of Mr Ms complaint   that is that Lloyds shouldve  
attempted a chargeback on his behalf  back in 2015. Chargeback  is the name given to a 
process that enables cardholders  (in certain circumstances) to challenge payments made 
from their accounts. Chargebacks operate on the basis of the contract between  the card 
issuer (in this case, Lloyds) and the operator of the card scheme.  Lloyds obligation was to 
follow the rules of the scheme. The rules applicable  to this transaction impose a deadline of 
120 days from that point that the cardholder expected to receive  the merchandise  or 
services so Lloyds couldnt  have been expected to attempt a chargeback when Mr M made 
his complaint in 2018.
I accept Mr M says that he asked Lloyds  to attempt a chargeback in 2015  when  he realised 
that hed been the victim  of a scam.  If hed done  so, I wouldve expected Lloyds  to attempt a 
chargeback at that point (although there  is no guarantee  that it wouldve been successful). 
However, I agree with the investigator that theres  no evidence Mr M did challenge the 
transaction with Lloyds  at the time. 
Lloyds sent us a copy  of its internal  notes  of contact with Mr M. These suggest that there 
was contact between  Mr M and Lloyds before and after the transaction.  He appears to have  
spoken with Lloyds in September 2015,  January 2017 and July 2017 about  other  matters.  
But theres nothing  to suggest  a phone call in October 2015  was made to let Lloyds know he 
was concerned about this specific payment. I accept that its possible that a Lloyds 
employee failed  to properly document the conversation  but due to the fact that other 
interactions around the time were  recorded in the system notes, I dont find that to be 
particularly likely.
Im also not persuaded that Mr M wouldve  left it so long before querying the chargeback 
with Lloyds. I dont  know the exact date the 2015 call wouldve taken place  but it appears 
that Mr M didnt follow it up for at least two and a half years. This is surprising given that he 
told the investigator that he had to take out a loan in order to pay for legitimate flights.  The 
financial impact must  have been  quite significant, so Id have  expected him to have chased 
Lloyds for an update  if hed asked it to raise  a chargeback in 2015 but hadnt heard anything  
for such a long period of time.
I dont doubt that Mr M is giving us an honest  recollection of what happened  but when there 
is limited available  evidence, I have to reach a decision  on the balance of probabilities.  
Unfortunately, there isnt enough evidence to show that Mr M contacted Lloyds  to seek  help 
following the payment  he lost. And as Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds shouldve  done any 
more to protect Mr and Mrs M from financial harm at the point the payment was made. So, 
although I sympathise  with the fact that theyve been the victim of fraud here and Im sorry to 
disappoint them, for the reasons Ive explained  I dont uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN09233573
Ref: DRN0923357