K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that Legal & General  Insurance Limited (L&G) wont  meet  her claim for
storm damage to her property. She made a claim under her home insurance.
background
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint in late 2019. A copy is attached and forms 
part of this decision. In summary I thought that L&G had fairly decided not to meet  Mrs Ds 
claim as the expert report it had relied upon concluded that the damage  to Mrs Ds home  
was the result of the design of the roof and water  collection system, and the damage had 
been building up over a long period of time.
I did think L&G should have done more to help Mrs D, as it knew  she was abroad when the 
claim was first registered and had offered  to contact a family member about  emergency 
cover. It didnt do that. So I suggested it pay £250  compensation  for that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L&G says it doesnt  think it should have to pay any compensation. It says it was simply trying 
to help Mrs Ds mother access any help that might be available  under a home  emergency  
policy before  Mrs D returned home. L&G says the home emergency policy  isnt its 
responsibility, and it had no obligation  to help Mrs D (via her mother) with this.
I understand that argument, but it remains that L&G did say it would help with this. And then 
it gave up trying to contact Mrs Ds mother because her phone line was engaged on one 
day. I still think L&G  once it had said it would help  should have carried  that promise 
through. It didnt do that, and the compensation remains appropriate.
Mrs D has sent a comprehensive response. Im not going to comment  on all of it, but I have 
considered everything  Mrs D said. Instead Ill comment on the main points she made.
Mrs D says the surveyor used by L&G might not be an expert. I think this is something L&G 
is entitled to decide when  it decides which professional company to use to carry out surveys  
on its behalf. Mrs D says instead that the builder  also sent out by L&G  must be an 
expert. I havent seen  anything that persuades me the builder is better qualified to reach a 
conclusion on whether the roof was storm damaged  than the surveyor.  I still think  L&G is 
entitled to rely on the surveyors opinion.
For storm damage to be accepted as a cause of damage on a property, its generally 
accepted that the damage must be able to be linked  to a storm that occurred immediately 
before the damage is noticed.  And there must,  as I said before, be signs of damage. I accept  
that following  a repair to a tiled roof Mrs D doesnt  think theres any water getting  into her 
home. But that in itself doesnt mean the damage  was storm related.
Mrs D has provided details  of several  storms and bouts of bad weather that affected the area 
where she lives over the three months before she made her claim.  I accept that  if there  
was storm damage  that it might have been caused  by one of the earlier  bouts of bad 
weather. But as I said previously, the report from the surveyor L&G used didnt  highlight  any 
Ref: DRN07348332of the sort of damage  normally  seen after a storm  such as damaged tiles, for example. Mrs 
Ds builder seems to have told her the damage  was beneath the tiles  which  isnt something 
normally associated with storm  damage  if the rest of the roof isnt obviously  affected. Mrs D 
did tell us about some potentially  lifted lead flashing between the wall of the house  and the 
tiled roof, but that isnt mentioned on the surveyors report. L&Gs notes  show  Mrs D was 
given the opportunity to provide an independent report on the cause of damage,  and that 
L&G would reimburse any reasonable cost if the claim was then accepted. Independent  in 
these circumstances  wouldnt normally include someone liable to get work as a result of the 
report  so not the builder who looked  at the roof. Mrs D hasnt provided an independent 
report. 
Mrs D told L&G that there  was no apparent internal damage in her home  before she went  on 
holiday. However, the photos provided by the surveyor show  extensive  damage that 
normally takes months to develop. So although I dont doubt Mrs Ds recollections, I still 
remain persuaded that the damage had been  building up gradually  over a long period of 
time  possibly for years. And although  Mrs Ds policy does cover her for damage that builds 
up unnoticed over time, damage caused  to the building by water  getting into the house 
unnoticed is excluded  from this cover. So I wont be asking  L&G to meet the claim.
Mrs D says her contents insurance does  cover items damaged by water. From the reports  
Ive seen, the damage is confined to things that are part and parcel of the building.  I say that 
because the usual way to differentiate between contents and buildings in home insurance 
is that contents are removable   in other  words  you would  take them with you if moving  
house. None of the damage in Mrs Ds house seems to be for contents. I cant  see that L&G 
are aware that there was damage to contents,  so it doesnt look as though it will have  
considered this point.  Mrs D could discuss this with L&G if she thinks some  of her contents 
were damaged  although that doesnt necessarily mean L&G will be obliged  to meet a 
claim. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I order Legal & General Insurance  Limited to 
pay £250 compensation for the poor service  it provided. I make no order for payment  of the 
claim itself.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN07348333Copy of provisional  decision December 2019
complaint
Mrs D complains that Legal & General  Insurance Limited (L&G) wont  meet  her claim for
storm damage to her property. She made a claim under her home insurance.
background
Mrs D lives in a terraced house  with a main roof that isnt tiled  its has a flat roof type
covering. The way the houses have been built means there are pitches on the roofs  which
join at gullies that run from the front to back of the house. The gully collects  rainwater which
drains into a hopper. That hopper then allows water to run freely  across a tiled roof at ground
floor (ceiling)  level before being caught in guttering and then a downpipe.
In December 2018, Mrs D was on holiday when she received a message from one of her
children that part of her lounge  ceiling had collapsed. She contacted L&G but communication
was difficult. She then spoke to L&G a couple of days later and gave L&G her mothers
contact details so emergency repairs could be arranged. L&G tried to contact Mrs Ds
mother on 10 December to arrange temporary repairs, but were unsuccessful.
L&G did agree to look at Mrs Ds claim, and sent a surveyor out on 14 December. That
surveyor thought  the damage was long standing and had built up because of the design of
the roof. He thought the hopper meant  to collect rainwater was being overwhelmed,  leading
to water running down  the walls of the building  and causing damage. The surveyor  also
thought the internal damage  must  have  been apparent for some time, given the extent of it
and its nature.
L&G said it wouldnt meet  the claim. It said although there had been  a storm around the time
the internal damage occurred, the main cause of the damage was the design  of the roof and
drainage system. It also said that, although  Mrs D had accidental damage cover  for damage
that might  have built up unseen, her policy specifically excluded  damage caused by water
getting into the building.
Mrs D said that the business that eventually carried out a temporary  repair to a tiled part of
her roof said the damage  was storm related   and that Mrs D wouldnt have seen it because
it was a problem  under the tiles. And she also says that the repair  which is a tarpaulin over
the tiled area  has prevented rain getting in, which supports her argument  that its the tiled
area of the roof that has failed, not the drainage system.
Mrs D complained to L&G but it didnt change  its stance, so she brought  her complaint to this
service. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld, as she thought L&G
had fairly  relied  on the report from its surveyor.
Mrs D remains  unhappy about this, so Ive been  asked to decide this complaint.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN07348334I think there are two parts to this complaint.  They  are whether the service Mrs D received
was acceptable,  and whether L&G can fairly  decline the claim.
service
The first record I can see of L&G talking  to Mrs D is 10 December 2018, although she says
she contacted  L&G a couple  of days before  this. It might be that L&G didnt record  that call if
communication was difficult. But by 10 December L&G had been  asked  to contact Mrs Ds
mother to arrange  emergency repairs  or at least explain  to her how she could do that. It did
that because Mrs D was still on holiday.
From the notes L&G sent, it seems the insurer tried to contact Mrs Ds mother  on the 10
December. It didnt  get an answer,  and seems to have simply given up trying to make
contact. The next notes I can see are from the 14 December  when  it appears  L&Gs
surveyor went to look at the property. A few days later L&G said it wouldnt meet the claim.
Theres no further mention of emergency  repairs in L&Gs notes.
Mrs D told us she was left to chase to get the emergency repairs  done when she returned
home  and they werent carried out until the 21 December. Mrs D says the delay made the
damage much worse.
Unlike our investigator,  I think L&G should  have done more than it has here.  It knew  Mrs D
couldnt take control of the repairs because she was away.  I think L&G should have
contacted Mrs Ds mother  or at least tried to  every  day until it reached her, or until it
began speaking directly  to Mrs D.
I think L&G has failed to provide an acceptable service  to Mrs D. And I currently think it
should compensate  her for that.
I have considered whether the delay  in appointing someone to do the temporary  repairs
caused further damage inside the house. The photos Ive seen were  taken  four days  after
the damage was reported. Ive looked at the weather  records for these days and there was
virtually no rain. So I think the photos show  the damage as it was when the claim was first
made. There was another week before the temporary repairs were carried out, and it did rain
during that week.  But I cant  say the cost of repairs would  have gone up even if some  more
water had got in before  the temporary repair was carried out. The photos show several areas
of damage that need extensive repairs. I think its unlikely these would be more expensive
after a further  week. In other words its likely the same repairs  would be needed in either
scenario.
My current  thinking is that L&G should pay £250 compensation to Mrs D for the additional
upset its caused  her by its failure  to ensure that communication was made  about the claim.
damage
Mrs D says L&G brought up the subject of storm damage. She says she wasnt  in a position
to know what had caused the damage  as she was out of the country.  I think  thats a fair
comment, although it doesnt affect  my decision.
For Mrs D to make a successful claim she needs  to show that an insured event has taken
place, and thats what caused  the damage. Storm damage is one of the insured events listed
in Mrs Ds policy, and its likely the only insured event that applies, given the damage  that
Ref: DRN07348335was reported.  L&G may only have thought the damage was storm related, as records  show
there was a storm around the time the damage  was reported. But in any event  it sent a
surveyor to look at the damage, so it could  check that Mrs D had a valid claim, and, if so,
whether it should  meet  that claim based on her policy terms and conditions.
I think thats a reasonable way for L&G to assess the situation.  I also think its fair for L&G to
rely upon the report it receives from its surveyor, who is expert in this area. After the visit,
L&G said it wouldnt meet  Mrs Ds claim. In doing that, it relied on an exclusion clause in Mrs
Ds policy, which says it need  not pay for damage  that built up gradually, through general
wear and tear, or is the result of poor design.
Ive looked at the report and the comments in it do seem to reflect the evidence  shown in the
photos. There isnt much, if any, damage  apparent to the tiled roof in those pictures.  But
there is evidence of damage  to the brickwork of the house  discolouration and mould  or
moss. That suggests the hopper hasnt been functioning properly, and water has been
running down  the brickwork for some time. It appears its been running down the main face
of the property either side of a down pipe,  and also on a side wall close  to where  the
downpipe allows water  to run freely  over the tiles. Those areas do seem to coincide with the
internal damage.
The damage both inside  and outside  the house  looks like its built up over a long period of
time. It might be that the last storm was the final straw, which  is why the ceiling collapsed.  I
dont currently think the storm  was the main   or only  cause  of the damage.  I accept the
contractor who carried out the temporary repair said there was a problem with the tiled roof,
but I havent seen anything  to support this opinion  like photos from before the repair.
Mrs D says the surveyor didnt report his findings  on the tiled roof properly. She says he
ignored the tiled roof as he knew it and the lead flashing had suffered damage. I dont know
how closely the surveyor examined the tiled roof, but he must have looked at it because  hes
sent photos of it. And as I said before, I cant see any evidence  of the sort of damage that
might be caused by a storm.
Mrs D says the surveyor said the main roof was letting in water but that as the temporary
repair (to the tiled part) has prevented further leaks, that cant  be right. The report  Ive seen
doesnt say the main  roof itself is faulty.  Instead  it refers to the drainage system, and that this
is failing  when rainwater  builds up. If the temporary repair  is keeping  water out it might
suggest the tiled area is also a problem, but as I said above, I cant see any of the usual
signs of storm damage. Roofs do have  a limited lifespan, so it may simply be that this one
has reached the end of its useful life. Im afraid that isnt something Mrs Ds insurance
covers.
Overall, I currently think L&G was reasonable when it said the exclusions mentioned above 
gradual damage and poor design   meant  it didnt have to meet  Mrs Ds claim.
my provisional decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint  in part, and ask Legal & General  Insurance  Limited to
pay Mrs D £250 for the impact on her of the poor service she received.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0734833