K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited  are asking  him to repay a debt he doesnt 
believe he owes. 
background
Mr T held a current account with a bank (who Ill refer to as G). He says he asked G to 
close this account  in 1997 as he was moving abroad. Mr T says he also used to be an 
employee of G so he regularly updated it with his address details after 1997  as it continued 
to administer his pension plan. 
Mr T says he moved back to the UK in 2015.  In 2018 he received contact from Hoist asking 
him to repay around £1,000 that he owed on an overdraft he held with G. Mr T asked Hoist  
to demonstrate how the debt had accrued on the account as he didnt believe hed used it 
after 1997. Hoist  wrote to Mr T in 2019 to explain that as it couldnt  find sufficient information 
about the debt it would treat it as unenforceable. 
Soon after, G found a copy  of Mr Ts original account application  and sent this to Hoist. As 
Hoist now had the original application it said it no longer considered the debt unenforceable  
and continued  to seek repayment from Mr T. 
Mr T complained to Hoist  to say it had been  harassing him for repayment  and that the 
application form didnt  demonstrate how he owed nearly £1,000. Hoist didnt uphold Mr Ts 
complaint and said it was entitled to continue seeking repayment from him. It said it didnt 
think the level of contact amounted to harassment. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. Although  he didnt think the level of 
Hoists contact could reasonably be considered harassment, he thought Hoist was unfairly 
continuing to seek repayment. He said this was because Hoist had failed to adequately  
explain what  the debt consisted of, such as the level of interest and charges and when Mr T 
had accrued this debt.  He said that until Hoist  could show this information, it should stop 
collections activity and remove any adverse information it had recorded on Mr Ts credit file. 
Hoist didnt agree. In summary it said:
It didnt think the complaint was within the jurisdiction of this service due to the time 
limits involved  in bringing complaints. 
Hoist had provided a copy of the notice of assignment,  the original application form 
and an extract  from its system notes showing what was purchased from G. So based 
on this information  its reasonable  to conclude its more likely than not the debt is 
owed. 
Mr T hasnt provided anything to show he has paid the debt off previously or that it 
doesnt belong  to him.   
The complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Time limits
Ref: DRN09788362Hoist has said it doesnt feel this complaint falls within the jurisdiction of the 
Ombudsman Service. But its not given any clear explanation as to why, other than to say its 
outside of the six and three year time limits. Ill address  this objection first, as I think this is a 
complaint we can consider. 
The time limits for considering complaints are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook in DISP 2.8. The relevant  rule here is DISP 2.8.2R which  says that the 
ombudsman cannot  consider a complaint if its been  made more  than six years  from the 
complained about event,  or if later, three years from when the complainant became aware 
(or ought to have become aware) of a cause  for complaint. 
Mr Ts complaint is that Hoist shouldnt be seeking repayment of this debt as it hasnt 
adequately demonstrated he owes the amount  its seeking. Mr T says Hoist hasnt been able 
to demonstrate how the debt accrued, hes not disputing that he once held an account  with 
G. So the complained about event is from 2018,  when Hoist  first made successful contact 
with Mr T to seek  repayment and Mr T raised his concerns  about  the makeup of the debt.  
This means  Im satisfied Mr T has made his complaint in time.  
Recovery of the debt
Hoist says it has adequately demonstrated that its more likely than not Mr T owes  this debt. 
But while it may have  demonstrated that its likely  this debt exists against  an account Mr T 
previously held, it hasnt  adequately addressed the complaint Mr T has made.
Hoist has been  able to demonstrate that Mr T held an account with G, which he doesnt  
dispute. And Hoists shown that according to its records Mr T owes  a debt on that account.  
But Hoist  hasnt demonstrated how that debt has arisen, which  is what  Mr Ts dispute  is 
about. 
Mr T says he closed  his account when  he moved abroad in 1997. He says he kept G 
updated with his address details because he still held a pension plan with G  having been a 
previous employee.  Despite this, he says he never received any contact about owing a debt 
until Hoist got in touch with him in 2018. Based on everything Ive seen, Im persuaded by 
what Mr T has said. 
I say this because  he has been consistent  throughout  about what  he says has happened 
and hes been  able to support most of that with additional evidence.  Mr T has been able to 
provide documentation which shows he did live abroad when he said.  And crucially, hes 
shown he did keep  G updated with his address details in relation to his pension plan. Given  
all of this, and that he would continue to have an ongoing relationship  with G  who hed 
worked for previously  I believe him when  he says he thought  his account was closed when 
he moved abroad and that he believed there was nothing owing on it. I find it unlikely given 
Mr Ts specific relationship with G that he would knowingly have left a balance outstanding 
on the account, but I accept its possible he did. 
But even if Mr T did leave  a balance outstanding on the account,  I think  its most likely  to 
have been a small amount. I say this because  it took around  12 years for the account  to 
default from when  Mr T appears to have stopped using  it. So it seems the debt was building 
up very slowly  which  could only reasonably be explained through small amounts of interest  
and charges being added monthly until finally it exceeded whatever overdraft limit Mr T had. 
Ref: DRN09788363This is assuming Mr T did stop using the account, which  I believe he did, and Hoist  hasnt 
been able to demonstrate  otherwise.  
I dont dispute  that Hoist  bought a debt from G registered against  Mr Ts old account for the 
value of around £1,000. But Mr T has raised  a valid dispute about  the makeup  of this debt 
which Hoist has been unable to adequately respond to. Although I dont think the level of 
contact or the nature of it could reasonably be considered harassment, I think it was 
unreasonable to continue  pursuing the debt in the circumstances. 
Im not satisfied that Hoist has dealt with Mr Ts genuine  dispute about this debt fairly. It 
hasnt been able to provide suitable information to show that the amount of the debt was 
either accurate or fair. So although it may have purchased this amount of debt from G in 
good faith, it was required  to investigate  further when Mr T raised his dispute.  Hoist hasnt 
been able to adequately  show that Mr T accrued this debt through  his spending.  It could just 
as likely  if not more likely, given the wider  circumstances  been  due to an 
accounting/bank error  or a series of charges/interest. 
If the debt had arisen solely  of charges and interest,  I dont think it would be fair that Mr T 
would have to pay anything towards the outstanding balance. Particularly because it doesnt 
appear G made reasonable attempts to contact him when the debt was escalating.   
Based on all of the above, I think its fair and reasonable that Hoist  stop any further 
collections activity and remove any adverse information from Mr Ts credit file. If Hoist can 
provide evidence  such  as contemporaneous  bank statements   that show the debt has 
arisen due to Mr Ts spending on the account   rather  than for example solely  interest and 
charges, it can at that point continue to pursue him for the outstanding balance. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Hoist Finance UK Limited  to:
Cease all collections activity on this debt.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ts credit file in relation to this debt. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0978836