K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about West  Frazier Limiteds  advice to transfer the deferred  benefits in his 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) to a personal pension.
background
In October  2017 Mr C and his wife met with a financial advisor  to discuss their pension  
arrangements. Mr C informed the advisor  he held deferred benefits from an OPS having  
been made redundant from a firm in 2004  with 17 years service. 
During the meeting Mr C completed a fact find which recorded information  about Mr C and 
his circumstances  at the time. This recorded;
He was 46, married  and had three  dependent children. 
He was employed with an income  of around £18,000 a year. And was paying into 
a workplace pension.
He jointly  owned a property with his wife worth £320,000 with an outstanding 
mortgage of £155,000.  
He planned  to move to a new house  and possibly downsize. 
He was on a debt management  plan which was due to end in three  months.
He suffered from epilepsy.  
He had a life insurance policy  with £200,000  cover. 
The fact find also recorded details about  the objectives Mr C had for his retirement and 
pension. This recorded;
His anticipated retirement age was 65.
In retirement he required at least 60% of his salary or as much as possible.
He wanted  to take as much tax-free cash as possible from his pension  in order  to 
pay off some of the mortgage or in case he couldnt work due to his illness.  
He was concerned  about his death benefits  and wanted to ensure his wife and 
children were financially  secure if anything was to happen to him.
He wanted  the flexibility to access money  at 55 if required or if he was unable  to 
work due to illness.
He placed  a high priority on family  security, maintaining his standard  of living in 
retirement and protecting his income. 
During the initial meeting the financial advisor  also completed a risk assessment  
questionnaire, to explore Mr Cs previous  investment  experience and his attitude to 
investment risk. The risk profiler showed Mr C had very little understanding, knowledge  or 
experience when it came to investments.  Based  on the risk assessment, the financial 
advisor decided  that Mr Cs attitude  to risk was that of a moderate investor.
Mr C says the advisor suggested to him it may be in his interests to transfer his OPS  
benefits into a personal pension.  So, Mr C gave the advisor permission to obtain quotes for 
the value of his OPS  pension.
The cash  equivalent  transfer valuation (CETV) from Mr Cs OPS  gave a transfer value of 
£180,302.39 which was guaranteed for three  months.  It also set out the benefits of Mr Cs 
OPS including  a pension payable at age 60 increasing in line with RPI, a tax-free lump sum 
and death benefits for his spouse and children. 
Ref: DRN01232432The financial  advisor wasnt regulated to advise  Mr C on transferring his OPS  benefits. 
And so, it asked a pension transfer  specialist, West Frazier, to advise Mr C on the best 
course of action. The advisor also requested  a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, which  
amongst other things  indicated the likely returns a personal pension  would need  to see in 
order to replicate the benefits of Mr Cs OPS.
West Frazier  says it created a suitability report in early 2018. It included  its recommendation 
from Mr C to transfer his OPS to a personal  pension. It said I am recommending  you effect  a 
transfer from the Barclays 1964  Final Salary Pension Scheme into a . personal 
pension.Based on your circumstances and objectives, I have researched  the market  and 
recommend that you transfer to a. personal pension. You do not need  to specify  the 
income start date. You will have complete flexibility  over the timing and manner in which 
benefits can be drawn, as I will further explain below. 
Mr C says he didnt ever see the suitability report,  but the recommendation was passed  on 
by his financial advisor. Mr C acted on the advice of West Frazier  and agreed to transfer his 
OPS benefits into a personal  pension. The transfer  was completed in early  2018.
In late 2018 Mr C made a complaint to his financial advisor as he became concerned about 
the recommendation to transfer his pension and he hadnt seen the suitability report before 
doing so. West Frazier responded to Mr C, highlighting the reasons  why it thought the 
recommendation to transfer the OPS  benefits  was suitable. 
Mr C remained  unhappy with West Fraziers response and so brought  his complaint to our 
service. Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint. She said the advice to transfer Mr Cs 
OPS benefits wasnt  suitable. Amongst other things she said many of Mr Cs objectives 
couldnt be met for several years. She felt Mr Cs attitude to risk and capacity for loss hadnt 
been correctly  assessed. And said Mr C had life insurance and death benefits  provided by 
the OPS should  he have  passed away. 
West Frazier  didnt accept our investigators  opinion. It said Mr Cs life insurance  was 
insufficient and the death benefits in a personal  pension were much greater than the OPS 
benefits. So, the case has been passed onto me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The industry regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), issued guidance for transfers  
in circumstances  like this one. It said;
When advising a retail client  who is, or is eligible  to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme  or other scheme with safeguarded benefits  whether  to transfer, 
convert  or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer,  conversion  or opt-out will not 
be suitable.  A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion  or opt-out to be suitable if it 
can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion  or opt-out is in 
the client's  best interests. (COBS  19.1.6)
Ref: DRN01232433So, my role in cases such as these, is to determine whether West Frazier have clearly 
demonstrated, on contemporary evidence that the transfer of Mr Cs deferred OPS  benefits 
was in his best interests. 
West Frazier  obtained a transfer value analysis (TVAS) in respect of Mr Cs OPS benefits.  
One of the important things in the report was the identification of the critical yield  the 
average annual  returns his new personal  pension  would  need to achieve  in order to match  
the benefits of his OPS. The critical yield required to match  the OPS at retirement  was 
quoted as 4.1% per year. The critical yield figure  was merely the figure  to provide the same  
benefits Mr C was giving up though.  So, it had to appear likely that Mr Cs fund could grow 
by more than just 4.1% a year for him to improve on the benefits being giving up and make a 
transfer worthwhile.
The transfer advice  was given after the FCA published  instructions in Final Guidance  
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future  'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer  was being upheld.  Prior to October 2017 
similar rates  were published by this service on our website. Whilst businesses  weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they 
provide a useful  indication  of what growth  rates would have been considered reasonably  
achievable when  the advice was given in this case. 
The closest  discount  rate to this time which I'm able to refer to was for the period before 
1 October 2017 and is 4.1% per year for a retirement age of 60. So, it matched the critical 
yield recorded in the TVAS report. But as Ive already  said, it wouldnt have been in Mr Cs 
best interest to take a risk on an investment  just to match the benefits he was giving up.
The suitability report says Mr Cs attitude to risk was that of a moderate investor due to his 
answers in the risk profiler. But having reviewed the answers Mr C gave. I think  its more  
likely his attitude was much more cautious. I say that because  Mr C had no experience  in 
investments, with the risk assessment indicating Not at all experienced: Im not very 
comfortable with investing . He also didnt agree or disagree with many  of the statements 
offered to him in the questionnaire. And the ones  he did give an opinion  on suggested he 
didnt lean towards taking risks.  
When considering  Mr Cs risk profile,  I must also consider his capacity for loss. 
West Fraziers suitability  report  says Your  capacity  for loss (Your  ability  to absorb falls in 
the value of your pension) has been  assessed  as 4 out of 5, meaning you have  a fairly high 
capacity for loss. 
But at the time of the advice the OPS benefits made  up a large  proportion  of Mr Cs 
retirement funds. He was on a debt management plan and told us he didnt have any 
savings. He also had an outstanding mortgage  of £155,000 on his home. I therefore 
disagree he had a fairly high capacity for loss. I think his capacity for loss on this pension  
was low.
The critical yield also appears to be based on the entire transfer value of £180,302.39. 
When in fact, there was going to be an initial transfer fee of 3%, reducing the value by 
£5,409.07. Mr C would also be paying his financial advisor 1% per annum for ongoing 
advice. And as Mr C was an inexperienced  investor,  I think  its likely he would need  ongoing  
advice. The impact  of these fees is likely  to have  meant that the critical yield wouldnt have 
been enough to have  matched the benefits  of the OPS.
Ref: DRN01232434The TVAS  report compared  Mr Cs likely OPS benefit of £6,084 per year to the likely low 
(£2,538pa), medium (£4,642pa) and high (£8,267pa) rates  of return.  The growth rates  were 
based on returns of 1%, 4% and 7%. So, in order to purchase an annuity matching Mr Cs 
OPS, he would have  to achieve  returns above the medium  rate used. Given Mr Cs cautious 
attitude to risk and a low capacity for loss. I think  its unlikely he would see returns  over and 
above the medium rate of returns required to replicate  his OPS benefits in retirement. 
Mr C was giving up a guaranteed income for life with fairly low risks involved. He was still 
14 years  away  from being  able to take his benefits. And so, the fund would have had to 
consistently perform well in order to achieve  the returns needed.  The personal pension  plan 
was also far more expensive than his OPS which didnt have any fees. 
COBS 19.1.7B  says In considering whether  to make a personal  recommendation, 
a firm should not regard a rate of return which may replicate  the benefits being  given up from 
the defined benefits pension scheme  or other  scheme with safeguarded  benefits  as sufficient 
in itself.
So, even if I thought the critical  yield was achievable, it wouldnt have been  enough  for West 
Frazier to have recommended Mr C transfer  his OPS benefits. West Frazier  had to 
demonstrate there  were  further benefits  in transferring Mr Cs OPS.
There can be other reasons why transferring  OPS  benefits can be beneficial.  So, Ive 
explored Mr Cs objectives and considered whether transferring his OPS  benefits achieved 
them. 
Amongst other things West Frazier  said two of Mr Cs key objectives were  to provide 
benefits in the most tax efficient way and to retain investment control. However, these  two 
objectives dont  appear to match  the information  recorded in Mr Cs fact find. And he hadnt 
selected these  objectives as priorities when  given the choice.
I highlighted  previously that Mr C wasnt a sophisticated investor and had no prior 
experience of managing investments. I think it was unlikely he wished for a more  hands on 
role in controlling his investments. So, I dont think being able to exercise more control was a 
fair reason to make  this transfer suitable.  
Mr C was also paying the basic tax rate, which was unlikely to change  in retirement. The fact 
find recorded not a concern next to the title inheritance tax and estate planning.  So, I also 
think its unlikely tax planning was high on his list of objectives. 
The suitability report did, however, record objectives  which matched Mr Cs fact find. These  
were the objectives  of securing a good  level of income in retirement and a lump  sum, having 
access to benefits  at 55 if he was unable to work  due to ill health and providing  death 
benefits to his family. 
As Ive already  said, due to the critical yield it was unlikely that transferring Mr Cs OPS  
would increase his overall financial benefits  in retirement.  So, I dont think transferring was 
likely to secure any higher  level of income  than his OPS benefits. 
West Frazier  said by transferring his OPS benefits, Mr C would have been able to access  his 
benefits at age 55. But even if Mr C found  the idea of accessing benefits early attractive or 
even if it was necessary  due to his health. The OPS  were also able to provide benefits  at 55, 
subject to actuarial  reduction. 
Ref: DRN01232435The TVAS  report also explained  The majority of final salary occupational  pension schemes 
have the scope to pay enhanced benefits to members  who wish to retire early due to Ill-
health. The level of enhancement, and Indeed, whether any such  enhancement will be paid 
is usually at the discretion of the scheme trustees  on a case  by case basis. This potential 
benefit will however  be lost upon  transfer to a Personal Pension.  
At the time of the advice there  was no immediate signs Mr Cs health would decline so much  
so that he was unable to work. If his health  declined at a later date, he could have 
transferred out of the scheme  at that point. Or looked into taking early retirement due to ill-
health through his OPS.
The personal pension  could have allowed Mr C to have access to a larger lump sum than his 
OPS. Mr C said a larger  lump  sum could help him if he had to retire early or wanted to pay 
off his mortgage. But Mr C was already considering downsizing  his house to reduce his 
mortgage. And if he decided to pay off his mortgage  at age 55, there  was nothing stopping  
him from revisiting the pension transfer nearer  the time. So, I dont think transferring his OPS 
benefits was the only way of accomplishing  this objective which, in any case, couldnt be met 
for another  9 years. But none  of this was explained  or explored  in the suitability report.  
Finally, one of Mr Cs key objectives was to provide death benefits to his family. Its clear the 
benefits available to Mr Cs beneficiaries  were  he to pass away  prior to retirement were 
greater from a personal pension. Thats because his OPS  scheme  didnt pay a lump sum - 
Although it did supply a spouses pension of 50% and a childs pension whilst they were  in 
education. 
So, the question  I must  consider is, were these  substantial  death benefits alone enough for 
Mr C to transfer the benefits  of his OPS? I can see from the fact find Mr C suffered from 
epilepsy. But Mr C told us he was in good health at the time of the advice. And his intention  
was to continue  working  until the age of 65. 
I havent seen  any medical evidence to suggest  it was likely Mr Cs life expectancy at that 
time was short. And I also would  have expected West  Frazier to have explored Mr Cs 
medical conditions  further if it thought it had a significant impact on his pension  planning.   
Mr C already had some  provisions in case he passed away.  He held a life insurance policy 
which would have paid out £200,000 in the event of his death. West Frazier supplied  us with 
calculations from a life insurance provider that suggested Mr Cs life insurance cover may 
have been insufficient for his needs. But West Frazier didnt give Mr C advice on his life 
insurance cover and it didnt explore any other options of increasing  it further. 
West Fraziers advice  was centred  around  transferring Mr Cs OPS  benefits. So, it needed to 
show, on contemporary evidence it was in Mr Cs best interests  to transfer. And overall, I 
dont think the lack of death benefit  provision in Mr Cs OPS  outweighed the overall  benefits 
and guarantees  he was losing by transferring his OPS. Or that it particularly met any of his 
other objectives over and above what he already had with his OPS.  
I think if West Frazier had explained  all of this to Mr C he would have decided to stay in his 
OPS. I therefore hold West Frazier  responsible  for any losses  Mr C incurred as a result of 
their unsatisfactory advice.
Ref: DRN01232436Mr C says he didnt see the suitability report before transferring his OPS. But regardless  of 
whether Mr C saw the report  or not, I think he would have acted on the recommendation 
contained within it. So, I dont think it makes a material difference  to the outcome of this 
complaint. 
putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. West Frazier must therefore  undertake  a redress  
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance  of the decision.
West Frazier  may wish to contact  the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, 
it should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could  have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have  been taxed according  to his likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date West 
Frazier receives notification of his/her  acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest  must  
be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes 
West Frazier  to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Ref: DRN01232437my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and request  West Frazier Limited to compensate Mr C as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2021.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0123243