K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that Red Sands  Insurance  Company (Europe) Limited turned down her 
claim under her pet insurance  policy.
background
Mrs G has annual pet insurance with Red Sands. In 2018 she made  a claim for the vets 
treatment her dog had received to remove and test a lump. 
Red Sands  turned down Mrs Gs claim.  It said the lump was a pre-existing condition 
because there had been a lump on a similar  area of the dogs body before she took out the 
pet insurance with it. Red Sands also applied a policy exclusion for claims related to skin 
tumours and resulting conditions backdated  to the policys start date. Mrs G thought the 
earlier lump was completely different from the later one. She came to us.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He said Red Sands wasnt entitled to apply a policy  
exclusion backdated to the policys start date because it hadnt ask Mrs G questions  when  
she applied  for and renewed the policy. The treating vets evidence  was that its unlikely the 
lumps were  linked. So he said Red Sands  should pay the claim, with interest. Red Sands 
didnt agree, so the complaints come to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
The Red Sands policy definition of a pre-existing condition includes a condition, symptom  
or sign of a condition occurring  or existing in any form and at any time prior to the 
commencement date.
The definition of a condition includes any manifestation of an illness having the same 
diagnostic classification or resulting from the same disease process regardless of the 
number of incidents or areas of the dogs body affected. 
Mrs G explains  that shes insured her dog since birth in 2010,  and changed  insurers  in 2016  
when she took out the Red Sands policy, with a start date of 10 June 2016.  On 12 July 2016 
she took her dog to a vet, and the clinical notes say that shed noticed a lump  on his left 
flank six weeks previously. That would take it back to before the policy started.  And this is 
one of the reasons Red Sands says the 2018 lump is a pre-existing condition.
In April 2018 Mrs G had taken her dog to a vet with a rash underneath his body. It was at 
this point that the lump on the dogs  left flank was noticed. The vet did a fine needle 
aspiration and removed the lump.  The biopsy showed it was a benign collagenous 
hamartoma.
Red Sands  pointed out the 2018  lump was in the same area as the 2016 lump. It said there  
was no other  evidence the 2018 lump was a different one or had been caused  by a trauma. 
So it said the lump  was pre-existing, as Mrs G had first seen it before the policy started  in 
June 2016 and it was likely the same  one. 
Ref: DRN08015092But Mrs Gs vet has written to say that its impossible to say whether  the July 2016 mass is 
related to the mass  he subsequently removed. The July 2016 description of it being on the 
left flank was too vague to localise its position. But it was two years before the 2018 lump  
was noted. And importantly the vet said the mass which was removed would in my opinion  
have been there for a lesser  period  as they are, according to the histopathology report, 
related to trauma or furuncolosis (skin infection).
The dog didnt  have  a trauma but did have a skin rash, at the time the 2018 lump was noted. 
Based on the clinical and veterinary evidence I dont think  Red Sands has done enough to 
rely on the pre-existing condition exclusion in its policy. The vet has indicated  its likely the 
2018 mass was on the dogs leg for less than two years. So Red Sands must pay Mrs Gs 
claim, with 8% interest  as set out below.
As our adjudicator has said, Red Sands was not entitled to apply a retrospective policy 
exclusion. This is because it relied  on presumptions at the time Mrs G applied  for the policy  
and at renewal.  It would only be entitled  to apply a retrospective exclusion if it could show 
Mrs G hadnt taken  care answering  its clear  questions. It didnt do that so cant  apply a 
backdated exclusion.
Red Sands  is entitled to apply the policy exclusion for claims relating to skin tumours  and 
resulting conditions with effect  from the policy renewal date after the May 2018 claim for the 
April/May 2018 treatment and lump  removal. It cant rely on that policy exclusion to decline 
the claim,  or for any claim for the same condition in the 365 days  from 24 April 2018 when 
Mrs G took her dog to the vet and the lump was noted.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint. Within 28 days  of the date we tell it Mrs G 
accepts my final decision I order  Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
Pay Mrs Gs May 2018 claim,  subject  to the policy  limit and excess. If Mrs G has paid 
the vets fees then Red Sands  must add interest at the simple  rate of 8% from the 
date she paid the bill to the date of settlement; and
Remove the retrospective  policy exclusion  for claims  relating  skin tumours and 
resulting conditions that it applied to the policy  from the policys  start date of 10 June 
2016. In saying this Red Sands is entitled  to apply this policy exclusion but only with 
effect from 10 June 2018  (the renewal date). Red Sands cant  rely on this exclusion 
to turn down  a claim for or related to the April 2018 lump within 365 days of 24 April 
2018.
Ref: DRN08015093Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs G how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs G a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0801509