K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt  do enough to help him when he was the 
victim of a scam, causing him to lose £9,000. Mr W has been  helped with his complaint by a 
representative, but Ill refer to all submissions as having come from Mr W himself.  
HSBC say theyre not liable for the loss because they followed Mr Ws instructions and did 
enough to satisfy themselves that the payment was being made  for a genuine reason.
background
In July 2018 Mr W sadly fell victim to a scam.  He was called by someone purporting  to be 
from the National Crime Agency (NCA)  and was informed that his HSBC account  was under 
threat by some  of HSBCs own staff. Mr W had also recently received unusual  phone calls 
allegedly from his home phone provider, so this gave the call from the NCA further credibility 
as he was concerned  the other  calls were a scam.
Mr W was persuaded to assist the NCA in trying  to identify the dishonest HSBC  employee. 
He was asked  to make a transfer to an account  and to provide a beneficiary  name that 
would not cause suspicion. Mr W suggested his daughters name and the scammer provided  
the account number and sort code for where  to send the payment. Mr W believed the funds 
would later be returned to him and that the NCA would be looking to identify the dishonest 
staff member. He was briefed not to tell the staff the true reason for his payment as they 
didnt know who was involved. 
On 12 July 2018 Mr W and his daughter visited an HSBC branch and instructed a payment  
for £9,000  to the account details theyd been provided with. The bank staff asked  questions  
as to the purpose of the payment. Mr W explained that the money was going  to his 
daughters account  as she was buying  a car. The staff asked some further questions and 
Mr W confirmed  the make  and model of the car that was to be bought. Satisfied with the 
explanation, the staff processed the payment.  
Later that day Mr Ws daughter reflected on what had happened and felt that something 
might not be right. So, they called HSBC  to report the matter.  HSBC say they contacted the 
recipient bank but were told that no funds  remained and that they couldnt recover  the 
money. Mr W complained but HSBC  maintained  their position and the complaint  was 
referred to our service.  One of our investigators  thought it should be upheld, she 
recommended that HSBC  pay Mr W £9,000.
HSBC disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
In February 2021  I issued  a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I accept that the £9,000 Mr W sent was an authorised  payment.  Mr W provided a valid 
instruction in branch. So, whilst I accept he didnt know at the time that he was in the 
process of being  scammed, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), and the 
terms of his account, he is presumed liable  in the first instance. The payment was sent with 
Mr Ws daughter  as the beneficiary name  and the make and model  of the car as the 
reference.
Ref: DRN01396662HSBC have obligations to be alert to fraud  and I think they accept that the payment for 
£9,000 was unusual for Mr W and his account.  This is supported  by the fact that questions  
were asked of Mr W when  he gave his payment instruction. For clarity I agree the payment 
was unusual and was worthy of further  scrutiny by HSBC  before being processed. 
Mr Ws testimony and the evidence from HSBC are broadly in agreement  as to what  
happened in branch. Its generally accepted that Mr W was asked what  the payment was for 
and he replied that it was for a car. The payment instruction also records  the particular  make  
and model of the car, so I again accept that this was asked as well. There is further 
agreement that the payment was to go to an account in Mr Ws daughters name  for her to go 
on to buy the car. 
So, what  I need to consider here is whether HSBC did enough to satisfy themselves that 
Mr W wasnt in the process of being scammed? And if they didnt,  whether  this would have 
made a difference. Mr W was around  80 years  old at the time of the payment. His age is a 
relevant factor as the elderly are disproportionately targeted  by scammers. So, HSBC should 
have taken particular  care,  given Mr Ws age. 
Here, Mr W was accompanied in branch by his daughter. And the story that was provided  
was that the payment was ultimately for her benefit. Whilst it isnt unusual  for a parent to 
financially assist their (adult)  child, I think it would  have been good  practice  for HSBC  to 
have confirmed that Mr Ws daughter was indeed his daughter  and that he wasnt  under 
duress. 
I would have expected HSBC to have spoken  privately to Mr W, away from his daughter and 
preferably not in a public area. HSBC  would be aware that sometimes older people can be 
victims of financial  abuse and I think it would have  been prudent  for them  to have asked 
Mr W to confirm that:
The woman accompanying  him was indeed  his daughter;
He was freely making the payment and hadnt been pressured to do so;
It really was to assist her for the purchase of a car.
I also would  have expected him to have been  given a general warning about scams. I dont 
think HSBC took all the steps  they ought to have done before allowing the payment. 
So, Ive gone  on to consider whether or not this would have made a difference in the 
circumstances of this complaint. At the time,  Mr W believed that dishonest  staff from HSBC 
were involved  and he had been briefed to keep the true purpose of his payment a secret. On 
balance, I think its more  likely than not that Mr W would have maintained  the pretence that 
the payment was to help his daughter buy a car. I think he would have been  concerned  
about compromising a high level NCA investigation and so would have stuck to his story 
about the car. 
Id have expected HSBC  to probe on this point, as they know that victims are often given 
cover stories.  But the make and model of the car was also provided, which doesnt suggest  
that Mr W would have  faltered in the face of being  asked specific details. And its a perfectly  
plausible reason for wishing to instruct such a payment.  The banking protocol  allows  for 
escalation where  staff have concerns and can ultimately result in a recommendation that the 
police are called.  But that is dependent on the staff not being  reassured at an earlier  stage. 
And Im not persuaded that the answers  Mr W would most likely have provided to further 
questions would have  justified greater suspicion about the payment he was instructing.
Ref: DRN01396663Overall, whilst I think HSBC ought  to have done more  than they did to question the payment, 
Im not persuaded this would have  made  a difference and I think  Mr W would have instructed 
it in any case. 
Ive then gone on to consider what happened  when  Mr W reported  hed been the victim  of a 
scam to HSBC. Mr W first called HSBC  to report this just after 5pm on 12 July 2018. The 
evidence shows that HSBC informed the beneficiary bank about this the following morning. 
Its a common feature of scams of this nature  that the scammer very quickly  moves the 
stolen funds on. So, Id expect HSBC  to have passed this on sooner than they did. 
I contacted the beneficiary bank to see whether what I consider to be the HSBCs late 
notification made a difference to what could  be recovered. But theyve evidenced that the 
funds were very promptly withdrawn from that account. So even if HSBC  had informed them 
sooner, it wouldnt have resulted in Mr Ws money  being recovered. 
I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr W being the victim  of what is a cruel scam. But it 
would only be fair for me to tell HSBC to refund him this loss if I thought they were  
responsible for a failure that caused it. Ive made  clear that I think  HSBC  ought to have done  
more, both at the time of the payment and that they should have acted sooner to try to 
recover the funds.  But despite those failings,  Im not persuaded that they would been able to 
prevent Mr Ws loss. So, I cant hold them liable and direct them to return  his money.
Mr W responded to my provisional  decision with some further comments  that Ill address 
below.
HSBC didnt respond. Now both parties  have had an opportunity  to comment  I can go ahead  
with my final decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says that a number of factors have been  overlooked. These include the abnormal 
activity on the account, insufficient questioning  by bank  staff, along with appropriate  
consideration not being given to Mr Ws vulnerability due to his age. Mr Ws daughter as his 
representative also said that if they were  taken to one side,  like they should have been,  the 
payment wouldnt  have been  sent as she would have spoken up. 
I accepted in my provisional decision that the payment instruction was unusual  and worthy  of 
further scrutiny  something  I think HSBC identified at the time  due to the questions that 
were asked. I also made clear that I think HSBC ought to have gone further than they did in 
satisfying themselves that Mr W wasnt at risk of financial harm before processing  the 
payment he requested. But in the circumstances  of this complaint,  I dont  think that would 
have made  a difference to the outcome. 
I understand the point Mr Ws daughter has made that it is more  likely that she would have 
been receptive  to a warning, than Mr W himself  would  have  been.  But the key point here is 
that Mr Ws daughters presence was one of the risks that I think HSBC  ought to have 
mitigated against.   
Ref: DRN01396664Sadly, its not uncommon for older  people to be accompanied to a bank  by someone else 
and pressured  into making withdrawals or sending payments. This is particularly the case 
here as the payment was described as being for Mr Ws daughters  benefit and going  into 
her account.  As such, I would expect HSBC  to have spoken to Mr W as the account holder 
separately. And on balance, given Mr W believed at the time that he was helping the 
authorities, and had been briefed not to share  the real reason  for his payment with bank  staff 
 I dont think a warning,  would have prevented him from instructing the payment. I still think  
its more likely than not that he would have  maintained the pretence that the payment  was to 
his daughter to help with the purchase  of a car.  
I also dont think the story  provided was so implausible that it would have been unreasonable 
for HSBC to not have further  suspicions and to have progressed  to further steps of the 
banking protocol. Mr W was able to answer questions about  the make  and model  of the car, 
so there  is nothing to suggest that he would  have faltered under further questioning. 
I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr W losing such a significant  sum of money. But it 
would only be fair for me to tell HSBC to reimburse  him if their failures caused that loss. In 
this case, Ive acknowledged HSBC  ought  to have  done more, but as I dont think  this would 
have made  a difference to the loss Mr W suffered, Im not going to tell them  to do anything  
further to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0139666