K820x#14Complaint
Mr B has complained  that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited has avoided  his 
motor insurance policy  and refused his claim because of this.
Background
Mr B took out a policy through an insurance broker with another insurer  in November 
2017. In May 2018 that insurer  went into administration and Markerstudy took over the 
policy. It issued Mr B with a new schedule and certificate showing it as the insurer,  with 
the policy ending  on the same date as the original policy with the other  insurer.
Markerstudy received  a claim from a third party following  an incident involving Mr B in 
September 2018. Markerstudy then looked  into what happened when he took out the 
policy. It thought hed incorrectly answered no when  the brokers advisor asked  him if he 
had any convictions.  It said Mr B should have answered yes as he has a criminal 
conviction. It also thought  hed given the wrong occupation.
Markerstudy asked the broker to find out why Mr B answered these questions incorrectly 
when he took out the policy. Mr B explained to the broker  that he thought the advisor  was 
only asking him if he had any motoring convictions.  And he said hed got confused about 
his occupation,  as he was employed  on an off, even though he wasnt  actually working  
when he took out the policy.
Markerstudy thought  Mr B had failed to take reasonable care when  he answered the 
question about  convictions. And it said the previous insurer wouldnt  have  offered him 
cover if he had answered it correctly. In view of this, it avoided  his policy,  which  means it 
cancelled it from its original start date as though it never existed. And its continued to 
deal with the claim against Mr B by the other driver  and may seek to recover what it pays 
on the other drivers claim from Mr B.
Mr B complained to Markerstudy,  but it wouldnt change its mind. So he complained to 
us. Our investigator  thought Markerstudy  was entitled to avoid Mr Bs policy,  so he didnt  
think Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld and he wrote to Mr B to explain this. Mr B didnt 
agree and asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a Provisional  Decision on 15 August  2019  and said the following in my 
provisional findings:
Ive considered all the evidence  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint.
Markerstudy has told me that when it took over the policy  from the previous insurer it took 
on full responsibility  for the original contract Mr B entered into with the previous insurer, 
along with the rights of the previous insurer in relation to this contract. And - based on what 
Markerstudy has said and what happened  when it took over this contract  Im satisfied that 
this is the case.  This means  if the previous insurer would have been entitled to avoid         
Mr Bs policy, Markerstudy is also entitled to do this. And this would  mean it wouldnt have 
to settle the claim Mr B has made, as  in effect  his policy  would never have existed.
Markerstudy has said it provided a new Confirmation of Motor Insurance  (certificate) and 
schedule to Mr Bs broker when it took over the policy and it has provided us with a copy  of 
Ref: DRN08343632these. As far as Im aware from what happened  when Mr Bs previous insurer went out of 
business, his broker was aware  that Markerstudy  had taken over Mr Bs policy. So, it 
needed to let Mr B know this and pass the new certificate and schedule on to him. Its told 
Markerstudy it did this, but it wasnt Markerstudys job to make sure it did. So Im satisfied 
Markerstudy fulfilled its obligations  when it took over Mr Bs policy by providing the 
certificate and schedule to the broker. Ive also seen  an email sent to Mr Bs email address 
by his broker on 9 May 2018 informing him Markerstudy had taken over this policy. So it 
looks like Mr B should  have been  aware of this.
When he took out the policy with the previous insurer through  his insurance  broker  both   
Mr B and the broker - if it was acting as his agent - had a responsibility - under the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA)  - to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. For Markerstudy to take any action at all 
it needs to show Mr B or his broker (as his agent) didnt do this and that there was whats  
described in the Act as a qualifying misrepresentation. To do this it also needs to show the 
previous insurer wouldnt  have offered cover to Mr B at all or that it would have offered 
cover on different terms if Mr B or the broker (as his agent) hadnt failed to take reasonable 
care.
So I have  firstly considered  whether  the broker who arranged  Mr Bs policy was acting as 
his agent. And it will become clear later why I think this is an important consideration on 
this case. CIDRA  sets out the rules for determining the status  of agents. In this, it says it 
will be presumed the agent is acting for the consumer if it undertakes to give impartial  
advice to the consumer  and undertakes to conduct  a fair analysis of the market. In support 
of its view that the previous insurer wouldnt have offered  cover  to Mr B if hed declared his 
criminal conviction Markerstudy has provided a document entitled [broker name] Non 
Disclosure Rating  Guide. And it seems from this and other  correspondence  Ive seen 
about what would [have] happened when the policy was arranged  that the underwriting for 
the policy was largely  the responsibility  of the broker. So I think this makes it most likely 
that the broker was acting  for the previous insurer when it arranged  the policy,  as opposed 
to acting for Mr B.
CIDRA sets out a number  of things  that need to be considered when deciding whether a 
consumer failed to take reasonable  care. When Mr B took out his policy  the adviser at 
the broker asked  him to confirm that he hadnt had any convictions and didnt make  it 
clear he meant both motoring and criminal  convictions. Mr B has said he thought the 
adviser was only referring to motoring convictions  and thats  why he answered no. I 
accept this, as I think a reasonable consumer in taking out a motor  insurance policy, 
wouldnt necessarily realise  an insurance  company will also want to know about their 
criminal convictions. So I think Mr B did take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he answered  this question. I appreciate this was only because 
the adviser asked  him the wrong question, but  as Ive said - I think the broker was 
acting for the previous insurer, so Mr B cant be held responsible for the advisers error.
I appreciate Markerstudy has suggested Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make  
a misrepresentation,  as it thinks the question he was asked about the conviction was 
clear. But I dont  agree  with it on this point. I dont think  the question was at all clear.  It 
looks like Mr B was sent a copy of the statement of fact, which  showed  the correct  
question and his answer. But this was after he had agreed to go ahead  with the policy. 
And the fact he didnt  point out there was an error on it is not  in my opinion - a failure  to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation before Mr B entered into the 
consumer insurance  contract.
Ref: DRN08343633When Mr B took out the policy he was told by the adviser from the broker,  he was down as 
a truck driver at a quarry. At the time, Mr B was actually unemployed, but I understand he 
did drive a truck at a quarry during the periods he was employed. So I can understand why 
he didnt query this statement. And the agent ran through this so fast, he didnt really give 
Mr B the chance to query it. Neither did the adviser explain to Mr B he needed to have his 
occupation noted as what he was currently doing,  as opposed to what  he did when he was 
in work.  So I dont think Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to misrepresent with 
regards to his occupation.
In summary, I dont think  Markerstudy can show Mr B failed to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when he took out the policy with the previous insurer,  so I 
dont think it is entitled to avoid his policy and refuse his claim as a result  of this.
For the sake of completeness, Ive also considered the evidence  Markerstudy  has 
provided to show that if the previous insurer had known Mr B had a criminal conviction 
and was unemployed it wouldnt  have  offered cover.  Ive already mentioned this above. 
Its the document entitled  [broker name]  Non Disclosures Rating Table. It has a list of 
things customers might declare and what the impact of these would be. Next to criminal  
conviction is the word  unacceptable.
Markerstudy thinks this shows the previous insurer wouldnt  have  offered Mr B the policy 
if he had a criminal conviction. I notice it also has unacceptable next to an occupation 
of unemployed.  And Mr B was unemployed at the time he took out the policy; despite 
confirming he was a quarry  truck  driver.  However, I am not satisfied this document  
shows what the previous  insurer  would have  done  when Mr B took out the policy. This is 
because its labelled  as belonging to the broker and not the insurer.  And the reference to 
non-disclosure shows it was most  likely produced after Mr B took out his policy. I say 
this because non-disclosure suggests its something the broker  looks  at after it has 
discovered a non-disclosure  not something  thats used when the policy  is sold.  So its 
not a contemporaneous  record  of the criteria  the previous insurer used.
This means,  even if I felt Mr B had failed  to take reasonable  care not to misrepresent or 
that the broker was acting  as his agent, I still wouldnt  be satisfied Markerstudy had 
shown this would have made  a difference and so was a qualifying misrepresentation.
As I dont think  Markerstudy was entitled  to avoid Mr Bs policy,  I think the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint is for it to reinstate his policy  and deal with any 
claim under it. This will include dealing with the claim from the other driver involved as 
appropriate and it wont be entitled to recover anything it pays from Mr B. I also think it 
should remove any record of the avoidance  from its records and from any external 
databases. And provide Mr B with a letter confirming it has done  this.
Also, I think  Markerstudy avoiding the policy has caused Mr B unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience. It is difficult to be sure of the impact its had on him, but clearly it would 
have been frustrating and inconvenient knowing that hed answered  the questions  he was 
asked correctly and being told he hadnt.  So, I think Markerstudy should pay him £200 in 
compensation to reflect this.
I went on to explain Id provisionally decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint and make 
Markerstudy reinstate  his policy,  remove any record of the avoidance from databases 
and deal with his claim. I also said I intended  to order  them not to pursue Mr B for 
Ref: DRN08343634recovery of any payments it made to the other driver involved or their insurance 
company and to pay    Mr  B £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I gave both parties until 29 August to respond to my provisional decision. Mr B has 
confirmed he received it, but hasnt got anything to add. Markerstudy has responded and 
made three points, which are as follows:
Its said it is checking with the broker what its status was with the previous insurer,  
but it hasnt provided anything  further in this regard.  
Its sent a further copy of the document I referred  to in my provisional decision 
entitled [broker name] Non Disclosures  Rating Table and asked whether this is 
enough to show  the previous insurer wouldnt have offered Mr B a policy. This 
document has the previous insurers name in the heading and a record shows  it 
was produced in February 2017.  
Mr Bs policy expired in November  2018, so it cant be reinstated. 
My findings
Ive considered all the evidence  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint.
Markerstudy hasnt commented further  on the status  of the broker.  But it has provided some  
further documentation sent to Mr B when he took out the policy.  This includes the brokers 
terms and conditions which do state it is an independent intermediary making a fair analysis 
of the market. It also defines Independent  Intermediary in the policy document  as acting for 
the policyholder.  In view of the terms and conditions, I am now satisfied that the broker  was 
acting as Mr Bs agent and this means  he is responsible  for any misrepresentation the 
broker made as a result of the way it collected information from him. 
This means  the broker  made two misrepresentations on Mr Bs behalf. The first was that he 
didnt have any convictions, when he had a criminal  conviction. I appreciate  this was 
because it didnt ask Mr B the right question and he thought the adviser  was referring to 
motoring convictions.  But  now I think the broker was acting for Mr B, it means  he is 
responsible for this misrepresentation. And I think in making this misrepresentation the 
broker failed to take reasonable care. 
I also think the broker made a misrepresentation on Mr Bs occupation  and employment  
status. It said his occupation  was a truck  driver,  which was technically correct, but it didnt 
check properly and failed  to mention he was currently unemployed. Again  I think  this was 
because it failed to take reasonable care and Mr B is responsible for this, as the broker was 
acting as his agent. 
In summary,  I now think Mr Bs broker made two misrepresentations on his behalf as a result 
of failing to take reasonable  care. And I think these were careless as opposed to 
deliberate/reckless. I say this, as they were clearly  down  to poor handling  by the brokers 
adviser, as opposed  to any intention on the brokers part to mislead the previous insurer or 
pay no regard whatsoever to whether the information provided was correct.  
I also think that Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he failed to point  out he had a criminal  conviction  and was unemployed when he got the 
statement of fact to check. This is because under CIDRA a failure by a consumer  to comply 
with an insurers request to confirm  or amend particulars previously given is capable  of being 
Ref: DRN08343635a misrepresentation.  And I think by not notifying the insurer or the broker the details on the 
statement of fact were wrong Mr B did fail to take reasonable care.    
But Im still not satisfied either of these misrepresentations were qualifying  
misrepresentations under CIDRA.  This is because I dont think  Markerstudy has provided  
sufficient evidence to show the previous insurer would have provided  cover on different 
terms or not at all. 
I explained in my provisional decision  why I dont think the document  entitled [broker name] 
Non Disclosures Rating  Table is sufficient  evidence to show  the previous insurer  wouldnt 
have provided  Mr B with a policy. I appreciate  the revised version Markerstudy has sent has 
the name of the previous  insurer in the title and was produced prior to Mr B taking out his 
policy. But it still seems to be a document for dealing with non-disclosure discovered after 
the policy was taken out, as opposed  to the original underwriting acceptance criteria for the 
previous insurer. It also refers to three insurers, as opposed to just Mr Bs previous insurer, 
which also makes me concerned its not a document  produced  or approved by the previous 
insurer. It looks to me like a document produced by the broker for several insurers.  So, my 
view of this remains the same,  in that its something thats looked at if a possible 
misrepresentation or non-disclosure comes to light and not a contemporaneous record 
showing what the previous insurer would actually  have  done if the broker  had declared Mr 
Bs criminal  conviction  and his employment status as unemployed when it arranged  the 
policy. So I still dont think this is enough  to demonstrate that the previous insurer wouldnt 
have provided  Mr B with any cover  at all. 
In summary,  in order for me to be satisfied the misrepresentations Ive mentioned  were  
qualifying misrepresentations Markerstudy needs  to show the previous insurer wouldnt have 
offered cover at all. And I dont think its done  this because it hasnt provided a 
contemporaneous record of what the previous insurer would have done if it had been  told  
Mr B had a criminal  conviction and was unemployed. In light of this, while my view on the 
status of the broker  involved  has changed.  And this means  in effect  there was a failure  to 
take reasonable care by Mr B and his agent.  I still dont  think Markerstudy has demonstrated 
it was entitled  to avoid Mr Bs policy. So my view on what the fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint remains the same.  
I appreciate Mr Bs policy expired in November 2018, and so Markerstudy doesnt think it 
can be reinstated, but I dont agree. I think it can be reinstated retrospectively, so it is as if it 
was effectively in force 20 November 2017 to 19 November  2018. This needs to be reflected 
in Markerstudys records and any central  databases.  And Markerstudy needs to deal with  
Mr Bs claim as if the policy was in force in this period. 
I also think Markerstudy decision to avoid the policy was unreasonable and this caused  Mr B 
distress and inconvenience. And it remains  my view that the £200 I suggested in 
compensation for this is appropriate.  
In summary,  it remains my view, as set out above and in my provisional decision,  that 
Markerstudy hasnt demonstrated  Mr B or the broker on his behalf  made  qualifying  
misrepresentations when he took out the policy. Therefore, I still think the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint is as I set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN08343636My final decision  
For the reasons  set out above,  my final decision is that I uphold  Mr Bs complaint  and 
Markerstudy Insurance Company  Limited must do the following:
Reinstate Mr Bs policy so it was effectively  in force 20 November 2017 to                
19 November 2018 and deal with any claim under it in accordance  with its terms and 
conditions. This includes  dealing  with any claim from the other  driver.  
Not pursue Mr B for any amount it pays to the other driver involved  in the accident or 
their insurance company.  
Remove any record of the avoidance  of Mr Bs policy  from its records and from any 
external databases.
Provide a letter to Mr B confirming it has removed any record of the avoidance.
Pay Mr B £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0834363