K820x#14complaint
Mrs P is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has placed blocks on her account 
preventing her from making  transactions and withdrawing money. 
background
In May 2018, Mrs P received a large amount of money into her account. Shortly  after this, 
when trying to use this money, Mrs P found some of her transactions  were being blocked  by 
the bank.
When she contacted  the bank about  this, they asked her to attend the branch with 
identification. Which  she did in June 2018.  During  this visit, Mrs P says she was told her 
bank account  looked dodgy. She says this was stressful  and embarrassing. 
Halifax agreed with this part of Mrs Ps complaint.  And offered her £200  in recognition of the 
worry and upset shed  been caused because of what  happened  during this branch visit. 
In August  2018,  Mrs P went into the branch  to withdraw a large  amount  of cash. Mrs P says 
she was in the branch for an hour and 25 minutes  to make this withdrawal. Shes unhappy 
that it took two phone calls and lots of questions about her identity before the withdrawal was 
allowed. 
After this, further transactions were  stopped  on Mrs Ps accounts on a number of occasions. 
Halifax told Mrs P that shed need  to contact its fraud department  to discuss the continued 
checks on her transactions. And Halifax sent its final response to Mrs P, but she says she 
didnt receive this letter. 
Our adjudicator thought what Halifax had already offered  was fair to put things right. He said, 
in summary, that he thought Halifax hadnt done  anything wrong by asking further questions 
about some  of Mrs Ps transactions or blocking them altogether. And he thought  what Halifax 
had already offered was fair and reasonable in respect of the poor service  shed received in 
the branch in June. 
Mrs P didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. So the complaint was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ps account  say that Halifax can stop or suspend  customers 
making payments  for security reasons, among others. Its up to Halifax to decide what 
transactions will flag on its security  system.  I understand Mrs Ps point  that shes  entitled to 
access her own money whenever  and however  she wants, so I can see why shed feel 
inconvenienced by Halifaxs actions. And I can see that several of her transactions  have 
been affected. But I dont think this means  Halifax shouldnt have done  what it did.
Halifax has fraud prevention measures  in place to protect customers  and the bank. And its 
terms and conditions allow transactions to be stopped for this reason. So I dont think  its 
done anything  wrong by blocking some  of Mrs Ps transactions, or by asking her more 
questions than she expected when she wanted to withdraw a large  amount of cash.  
Ref: DRN04374722When Mrs P complained to Halifax, she was told during a telephone call on 3 July 2018  and 
in the final response  letter  that shed need  to contact the banks fraud department  otherwise  
regular additional  checks on her transactions would continue. 
When Mrs P attended the branch to have  her account unblocked she says she received poor 
service and in particular, she felt she was being  kept from accessing  her own money and 
accused of having done something wrong. Halifax has agreed that this wasnt  handled in the 
way it would expect  and offered her £200  in recognition of the worry and inconvenience 
caused. 
Ive thought carefully about this and what Mrs P says about why this isnt enough  but I 
think it is enough. I say this because, as Ive said, I dont think Halifax  did anything  wrong  by 
requiring Mrs P to come to the branch with identification or by blocking some  of her other  
transactions  so I dont think compensation is required for these things. But I do agree, that 
Mrs P was made  to feel like she had done  something wrong and this wasnt appropriate and 
I think £200 fairly reflects the impact of this on Mrs P. 
Mrs P has said she didnt  receive the final response  letter dated 3 July 2018. Halifax sent it 
out again on 14 August 2018  - after Mrs P had submitted  further online complaint forms 
asking where it was  explaining that it was the final response to her complaint.  Mrs Ps 
asked in particular  that an ombudsman consider this point. Ive done so, but I dont think  it 
makes a difference to the outcome of her complaint. 
I think Halifax sent the letter dated  3 July 2018  to the right address  so I dont  think  I can 
fairly say its responsible  for the fact that it wasnt received. And the further complaints she 
submitted after this, were  about the same  issues and asking about the letter,  so I think  
Halifax had already told her what the final response  to these issues  was, albeit the letter 
hadnt been received. 
my final decision
Im satisfied that £200 is a fair amount  given  the overall circumstances of Mrs Ps case.  Bank 
of Scotland plc should pay the amount  of £200  to Mrs P, if it hasnt  already  done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0437472