K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Santander UK plc wont  refund a payment made  using her debit card 
which she says she didnt  authorise.  She also complains that Santander gave her wrong 
information when  she asked it to block payments.
background
Miss G gave  her son her debit  card  because hed lost his  so that he could hire a car. She 
said she authorised  him to make one payment for this specific  purpose.
During July and August 2018,  several payments to a car hire business  debited and credited 
her account.  She became  worried about the number of transactions  and asked the bank to 
block all future payments to that business. The bank  arranged  the block on 19 August and 
told Miss G no further payments would debit her account until she asked for the block to be 
removed.
On 4 September 2018, £1069.44 was debited from her account in respect of a card payment 
to the car hire business.  This caused  her account to go overdrawn.
When Miss G complained, Santander  told her this payment had been authorised before the 
block was placed  on the account,  so it couldnt  be stopped.  It apologised that this hadnt  
been explained when the block was placed on the account and offered to pay her £50.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded  that 
Miss Gs son had her debit card with her consent.  And that because  credit was used for this 
payment (her overdraft), Santander wasnt required to refund her any part of the transaction,  
in accordance with section 84 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Miss G didnt  agree, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G allowed  her son to use her debit card. She says she gave him permission to make  
one payment for car hire. And it looks to me like this is what  happened   although its difficult  
to say exactly what went on because  Miss G hasnt been able to provide a copy of the car 
hire agreement, which is in her sons name.  
Although five different amounts were debited from Miss Gs account, these were all 
reversed. And three further payments were blocked.  So the payment on 4 September 2018  
of £1,069.44 is the only one that debited her account. And theres no evidence  to persuade 
me that this isnt the one that she authorised when she gave  her card to her son to make the 
car hire booking.
I cant find any reason for Santander to refund this payment.  And whilst I sympathise with the 
situation in which Miss G finds herself, she has an overdrawn  balance to repay   and she 
acted against  the account terms and conditions by giving her card to someone else to use.
Ref: DRN01708492The terms and conditions  explain that: we will not refund  you in any circumstances 
if.someone else used  your card with your agreement . And I find that this is fair in the 
circumstances here.
Santander did offer to investigate this further.  It asked  Miss G to provide it with information, 
including a copy of the hire car agreement, so that it could  consider whether it could attempt 
a chargeback. But Miss G didnt  provide  the requested information. So Santander didnt 
have enough information and evidence to request a chargeback.
Turning to the incorrect information - Santander  told Miss G no more  payments to the car 
hire business would debit her account after the block was applied  on 19 August. So I can 
understand why she was so upset when the 4 September payment was debited. But this 
was because it had been authorised before 19 August. Its not unusual, particularly where a 
payment is authorised under the terms of a car hire agreement, for there  to be a delay 
between using the debit card and the time when that payment is taken from the account.  
This is so that any additional charges, such as petrol  and costs  for damage to the car, can 
be included  in the amount  due for payment.  
While I do I think  it would  have been helpful  for Santander to have explained  this to Miss G 
when she asked it to block future  payments, it makes no difference to my conclusion  that 
Santander doesnt need to refund the payment because it was authorised. 
I think its offer of £50 compensation  was fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that Santander UK plc should  pay Miss G 
£50 compensation,  as previously offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0170849