K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs W bought the policy  in 1999 at the same  time as taking a store card.  AXA says the sale 
took place in a shop.  Mrs W says the PPI was sold by phone. Bearing in mind  that the credit  
agreement on which the PPI was selected was signed by both Mrs W and the lender on the 
same day, I think its more likely the sale took place face to face in shop than by phone. 
Mrs W was employed  at the time as a sales adviser. She has said she had been there for 
two months, but the credit agreement she signed says she had been there for a year  so I 
think its likely she had been  there for a year. From what  she has told us, Mrs W was entitled 
to less than three months sick pay and redundancy pay. She has also told us she didnt 
have any other means with which to pay her card if she couldnt work.
Mrs W has told us of a health issue she suffered as a child. She hasnt told us of any other 
or more  recent health issues she suffered before the sale took place. She has also told us of 
other health issues she suffered but, from what shes told us, these happened after the sale.
The PPI policy provided cover for disability and unemployment, as well as life cover, subject  
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to pay 15% of Mrs Ws card balance if she were  
unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. The life cover would, subject to 
its terms, clear  the card balance on death.  The policy cost at the time £1 per £100 of the 
monthly outstanding  balance.  The premium  would continue to have to be paid during  a 
successful claim  and it did attract interest.  The policy also provided purchase  protection  and 
price protection. Mrs W hasnt complained about this element of the insurance  policy  so I will 
not consider it further in this decision.  
Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. I 
will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. 
In summary,  Mrs Ws representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs W wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Ws representatives  believe  there  to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
Ref: DRN08540532The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  AXA should have told Mrs W about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs W and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mrs W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
Ref: DRN08540533The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
So Im satisfied it is right that I should  take these  codes into account when deciding what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mrs Ws case. Ive also taken 
account of relevant law in reaching my decision,  including: the law relating to negligence, 
misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on professional 
advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law relating to the duty 
of utmost good  faith; and the law relating  to causation  and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN08540534Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether AXA gave  Mrs W sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs W suffered  loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs W and 
AXA, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs W know  she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs Ws credit agreement had a box to sign if 
she wanted the PPI. Mrs W signed  this box. Nothing above the box or elsewhere  on the 
credit agreement said that the PPI had to be taken  or that Mrs W had to sign the box for it if 
she didnt want it. Taking  everything into account,  I think its more likely  Mrs W knew  the 
policy was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did AXA provide advice?
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mrs W has said she cant  recall whether 
advice was given  or not. Taking all this into account, Im persuaded AXA didnt give advice. 
This means  AXA didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs W. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Mrs W to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take the policy, including drawing to her attention  and highlighting  
in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
AXA has provided us with Mrs Ws credit  agreement  showing that PPI had been  selected. 
Ive also seen copy terms and conditions which I accept, on a balance of probabilities,  
applied to policies  like Mrs Ws.
Looking at the information provided to Mrs W at the time, I dont think  AXA gave her the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take the policy. 
Ref: DRN08540535This sale took place  in person. I dont  know what AXA told Mrs W about the PPI, but I think  
its unlikely she wouldve agreed  to take it without  having at least  a broad understanding of 
the cover  it provided  i.e. life, accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.  And I think  its 
unlikely she wouldve thought it was free. I bear in mind that above where she signed for PPI 
Mrs Ws credit agreement refers to a monthly premium and elsewhere it says cover  costs 
a penny in the pound of your monthly  balance  and protects account payments  in case  you 
are unable to work due to sickness, accident  involuntary unemployment  or death.
But it was AXAs responsibility  to draw to Mrs Ws attention the important information   i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
I dont think its likely  AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mrs W, including the need to maintain premiums during 
a claim or that payments  would attract  interest.  In addition, its unlikely AXA adequately drew 
to her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
So I dont  think AXA gave Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ws. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ws representative considers to be poor value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mrs W has suggested. And taking  into account the law, industry codes and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mrs W? To what extent did she suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs W. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude she suffered 
Ref: DRN08540536loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mrs W would 
have still taken the policy, had AXA done  things properly.  
Mrs W says she would not have  taken it and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs W had to weigh  up in her own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mrs W chose  to take this policy. So I consider its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs W thought  she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs W has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs W ought reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that AXA didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So while  Mrs W didnt  
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs W thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health  issue  Mrs W knew  or shouldve  known  
about, or for which  she had been advised or treated by any medical practitioner in the 12 
months before the policy start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs W 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs W be stopped  from doing  
her own job, or any similar job, and also be stopped from doing any paid work her 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified her to do.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations or exclusions  above  might well have 
caused Mrs W pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy was 
not as good as she thought and she might  have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs W from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. 
The policy wouldnt  have covered time off work  related to the childhood health issue  Mrs W 
has told us of. But taking  into account all she has said about this issue,  Im not persuaded 
that at the time of sale Mrs W wouldve thought  herself at much risk of missing  work in future 
due to that past issue  so I dont think she wouldve placed much, if any, weight on that in 
Ref: DRN08540537her decision  about  the PPI. So I dont think better  information about this exclusion wouldve 
put Mrs W off agreeing to the cover. And I havent  seen any evidence to suggest she had 
any other past health issues  at the time of sale or that she wouldve been  caught by any of 
the other significant  exclusions. So I think Mrs W still had good reasons  to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs W might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she wouldve expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to her 
from taking the policy,  Mrs W, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons  to take it. 
In saying this I bear in mind what Mrs W has said about suffering back  problems and missing  
work as a result, but Ive seen nothing to suggest  that at the time Mrs W took the PPI she 
had suffered any health issues  of that kind. I note she has also referred to an issue  more  
than ten years after the sale with which she missed two days  work.
If Mrs W had known she could only claim for disability if she were  not only unable  to do her 
own job or any similar job but also unable  to do any job her experience, education  or training 
might reasonably qualify  her to do, it might have played into her thinking about what  to do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although, given her circumstances, 
on balance I think Mrs W would have still been  interested in taking  the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not that Mrs W would  still have taken the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to what she 
thought she was getting and I think it couldve provided a useful benefit in a difficult  time - 
notwithstanding her employment benefits, and taking into account  her lack of other  means. 
And in those circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that Mrs W would have taken 
the policy in any event.  
Mrs Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken.
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  
In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mrs W would not have 
bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular circumstances of the complaint, there is 
evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN08540538Mrs W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs W in the position she would have  been  in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she would not have taken the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that Mrs W would still have 
taken the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude that AXA should pay her compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she wouldve been in if everything had happened as it shouldve  done. 
Im also aware that Mrs W thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
AXAs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mrs W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ws representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find AXA negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs W and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that AXA had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs W in a better position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0854053