K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that their home  insurance policy  was unfairly  cancelled  by 
CIS General Insurance Limited.
background
In May 2017  Mr and Mrs H took out online a home insurance policy.  They used a 
comparison website. This took them to an intermediarys site where  they agreed to the 
cover. One of the assumptions  in the policy  was that the insured property and its boundaries 
had no history of flooding. Mr and Mrs H were asked to contact the intermediary if that 
information was incorrect. They were also told if any of the information theyd given was 
incorrect, their policy  could  be voided (treated as though it was never in place). 
Mr and Mrs Hs garden had been  flooded. But they didnt contact the intermediary to say that 
the information it had was incorrect. They say thats  because they interpreted the statement 
to refer to their house being flooded rather than their house and garden. 
Before the policy was due to renew  the intermediary changed underwriters. It also changed 
the policy wording  to include a statement that Mr and Mrs Hs property or its land had never  
been flooded. 
Mr and Mrs H then contacted the intermediary  to say that a river had previously overflowed 
into their garden.  The intermediary contacted  CIS. At the request of CIS the intermediary 
cancelled the policy immediately rather than continuing cover for a further  seven days  until 
renewal. CIS said it wouldnt have  offered  insurance if it had been made aware of the 
flooding. It gave Mr and Mrs H a pro-rata  refund of the premium.
Mr and Mrs H say their house hasnt flooded in living memory. They say an extensive flood 
barrier has been  installed  to prevent their village from flooding. But their house has a large 
garden, some of which is below the flood  barrier. They say that occasionally in some winters  
water spills over the land along  the river but has never damaged or threatened their house.  
Mr and Mrs H complained  to this service. Theyre unhappy that the change of wording in 
their policy wasnt made  clear to them. They dont think  it was reasonable for CIS to cancel 
the policy. Theyd like the policy to be reinstated up to renewal. Our adjudicator  didnt think 
CIS had acted unreasonably in cancelling the policy. But she thought it should refund the 
premiums paid by Mr and Mrs H from the start of the policy
As Mr and Mrs H didnt  agree, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer buys or renews an insurance policy,  theyll be asked to confirm that 
information held by the insurer is correct.  In simple terms the insurer is trying to assess  how 
likely it is that the consumer will make  a claim. It can be a misrepresentation if an answer 
given is inaccurate  or incomplete. But the insurer will only be entitled to take action  if its a 
qualifying misrepresentation in accordance with the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and 
Ref: DRN00465152Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). The remedies available  to the insurer for a qualifying  
misrepresentation include voiding the policy.
Under the terms of that Act, there  are two main factors I need to take into account in 
deciding whether theres been a qualifying misrepresentation.  The first is whether the 
consumer took reasonable  care not to make a misrepresentation.  In assessing that I take 
into account how clear  and specific the insurers questions were. 
In this case in 2017  the intermediary said:
'we assume that the insured property ...has no history or any signs  of subsidence,  
ground heave or landslip  and its boundaries do not have any history or signs of 
flooding, coastal or river erosion to the best of your knowledge".  
In the policy  booklet property is defined as the buildings and the land within  its 
boundary.  Since there was nothing (for example, bold type or a capital letter) to 
indicate that the word property  was a defined term, I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs H to 
check the definitions  to ensure their understanding of this wording was correct. But I 
think the ordinary  everyday  meaning  of boundaries in this context is the line which 
separates the land owned by Mr and Mrs H from other land.  I appreciate that the later 
wording was even  clearer. But I think it was sufficiently clear to a reasonable consumer 
in 2017 that CIS wanted to know whether  any part of the land within  their boundaries 
had been flooded.
When Mr and Mrs H spoke to the intermediarys adviser, they said that their garden backs  
onto a river. They agreed that their garden  had been  flooded  quite often  although the 
building had never been flooded to their knowledge. I accept that Mr and Mrs H made a 
genuine mistake  in giving the information  they originally provided. But, knowing what they 
did, I dont think they took reasonable  care.
The other factor I take into account  is whether the insurer can show that without the 
misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered the policy at all (or would have but on different 
terms). Im satisfied CIS wouldnt  have offered any cover  if it had been  told about the garden 
flooding. This means a qualifying misrepresentation was made. And so under CIDRA CIS is 
entitled to void the policy. 
CIDRA says that in the case of a careless  qualifying misrepresentation the insurer should 
refund the consumers  premium. But CIS didnt  do that. It just refunded the premium for the 
last few days of the policy. CIS said that was because the policy  was cancelled with effect  
from 22 May 2018. I dont  think  that was fair. 
It seems  odd to me that if CIS wouldnt offer any cover for a property like Mr and Mrs Hs 
thats been flooded,  it would choose to treat the policy as being  in place up to the 
cancellation date rather than voiding it. If Mr and Mrs H had made a claim during that period, 
Im not convinced it would  have been accepted. I think its likely that CIS would have chosen 
to void the policy in those circumstances. So cancelling  the policy, rather than voiding it, was 
beneficial to CIS because it could keep  a proportion of the premium. I dont think  that was 
fair. In order  to treat Mr and Mrs H fairly,  it should  refund the whole of the premium  back  to 
the last renewal date.  
Ref: DRN00465153my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I require CIS General  Insurance  Limited  to refund the 
remaining proportion of Mr and Mrs Hs premium that it hasnt already paid to them. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0046515