K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance was not of satisfactory quality. He 
wants compensation for the cost of recent  repairs. Mr A also says the mileage at the time he 
took the vehicle was misrepresented.
background
Mr A tells us in April 2016 he acquired the vehicle  through a dealer who Ill refer to as M. 
He says the finance agreement shows the mileage as 14,000  - but hes since  found out that 
was not correct. Mr A says around March  2018  he was considering returning the vehicle 
once hed made half the payments. But before he was able to do so it suffered  a major fault 
and the timing chain  broke. He told us he contacted M but it refused  to pay for the repairs 
due to the time hed had the vehicle. Mr A says he contacted MotoNovo who told him to 
obtain an independent report. Hes now obtained  a report which  he says confirms the issue  
with the timing chain  wasnt his fault.
Mr A says hes also noticed the mileage recorded  at the start of the agreement was 14,000 
but an MOT two months earlier had recorded  22,357. So he thinks the vehicle  may have 
been clocked before he acquired  it. And if its done  more mileage than first appeared to be 
the case he feels this might account for the timing chain breaking.  He says hes never been 
provided with a full service history.
MotoNovo told us there was no evidence to show the vehicle  was not of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply.  Nor did it feel there was evidence the mileage had been  altered or the 
vehicle had been advertised  with a full service  history.
The adjudicator did not recommend the complaint  should be upheld.  She said she accepted 
there was a discrepancy with the mileage. But she thought it was more likely than not the 
fault with the timing  chain was the result of general wear and tear. So she didnt think  
MotoNovo was responsible for the cost of repairing  the timing  chain.
Mr A didnt agree and said if hed known the correct mileage he would have replaced the 
timing chain himself earlier. He wanted  an ombudsman  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr A has experienced problems with this vehicle - but unfortunately things go 
wrong from time to time. And this is more prevalent with older, high mileage vehicles.
In making a decision I consider all the evidence and where  evidence  is incomplete, unclear 
or contradictory - as some  of it is here - I make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities. 
That is to say where a fact is in dispute  I decide  what is the most probable explanation.
Under present  legislation as supplier of both finance and the vehicle  MotoNovo  is 
responsible for the vehicle being  of satisfactory quality. It would also be responsible  for any 
misrepresentation of the vehicle by M at or before  the time of supply. And whilst I dont apply 
the law - directly - I do take it into account. So if I thought thered been a misrepresentation 
and /or the vehicle  was not of satisfactory quality Id expect MotoNovo to put things right.
Ref: DRN03878452A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  causes a customer to act upon it. I can 
see the finance agreement records the vehicle as having covered 14,000  miles.  Whereas  an 
MOT certificate  from February 2016  records the mileage as 22,537.  It seems  the most  
probable explanation is that there was an input or typing error on the agreement. But Id also 
have expected Mr A to check the mileage at the time he acquired the vehicle  and point out 
any discrepancy he noticed. So I dont think it likely he was misled  about the mileage.
I can also see Mr A had the vehicle serviced  on 11 August 2016. And the service  centre,  
which Ill call B, records  the mileage as 31,759. As this was six months after the MOT  - and 
based on the history  of Mr As use of the vehicle - I think the MOT  mileage is most probably 
correct. I do not think the mileage was misrepresented at the time of supply. Ive also not 
seen any evidence the vehicle was advertised as being supplied with a full service  history.
Nor do I think there is sufficient evidence  that the vehicle  was not of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. Timing chains are components which have a variable life. And whilst many  last the 
lifetime of a vehicle this is far from always being  the case. Factors such  as manner of 
driving, road conditions and mileage all impact upon  the longevity of the timing  chain. Its 
also the case that the only evidence  of the timing  chain  being  faulty - breakdown apart - 
appears to be contained  in another  brief note from B. The note is dated 4 June 2017 - which 
seems likely to be a mistake as Mr A didnt report any fault until March  2018. And if it is not a 
mistake Id have expected  the issue to be raised with MotoNovo  at the time. Apart from 
saying no fault of owner the note fails to identify the cause of the issue or when  this might 
first have occurred. So I dont think this shows the fault was present at the point of supply.
In fact, if anything,  it tends  to show it was not. B serviced the vehicle at regular periods and 
Mr A has supplied  evidence of services on 11 August 2016, 19 December 2016 (mileage 
42,126) 4 March 2017 (mileage 51,237). None  of these identified any issue with the timing 
chain.
At the time of the breakdown Mr A had covered around 65,000  miles since  acquiring the 
vehicle. Its highly improbable to the point  of near impossibility to think  a vehicle could cover 
this amount of mileage  with such a fault.  So I conclude  theres  insufficient  evidence to show 
the vehicle was not of satisfactory at the point of supply.
Whilst I know it will come as a disappointment  to Mr A I dont think  theres sufficient evidence 
to show the vehicle was misrepresented or was not of satisfactory quality when supplied. So 
Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0387845