K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs P bought the policy  in October  2000  at the same time as taking  out a loan.  They 
applied for the loan and PPI policy over the phone from a branch of Nationwide.  Mr and Mrs 
P told us they applied  via a leaflet, but Nationwide has provided evidence which satisfies  me 
the application was made  over the phone.   
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £854.51  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 72-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £78.23 with the PPI costing an additional £16.72  making the total 
monthly repayment £94.95. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr P for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr and Mrs Ps monthly loan repayment 
for as long as the disability or sickness endured  or the end of the loan (whichever  came  
first), and for up to 12 months in the event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr P was employed as a warehouse  operative. He has told us he was entitled to 
12 months full sick pay. As this is unusually generous sick pay we asked for more 
information about this, but we didnt receive  an answer. I think  given the type of work Mr P 
did and his length of service its likely  he had less sick pay. Mr and Mrs P didnt have any 
savings which could  have  helped cover their loan repayments if Mr P couldnt  work. Mr P 
hasnt told us specifically  about his redundancy pay entitlement,  but I think he would have 
been entitled to a small amount  probably the equivalent of a few weeks  pay. Mr P has said 
he was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in March  2002.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ps representative  says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs P 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ps representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN02683482claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr and Mrs P about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs P 
and the impact they would have had on Mr Ps chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mr and Mrs P received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs P disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN02683483This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
Ref: DRN02683484-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs P with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs P, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs P 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs P 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs P know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
There is no call recording available, which isnt surprising given the length of time since the 
sale. But from what we know of call scripts provided  to this service by Nationwide it seems  
that the adviser would  have been prompted  to make  it clear  to Mr and Mrs P that they had a 
choice about the PPI. 
After the telephone conversation Mr and Mrs P were sent a copy  of the loan agreement  to 
review, sign and return. Nationwide has provided  a copy  of this and I can see that the PPI 
was described clearly as optional. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs P knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Both Nationwide and Mr and Mrs P agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale.  
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs P. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Mr and 
Mrs P to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs P were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr P was unable to work through  accident, sickness and disability.) I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr and Mrs P would  have taken out the policy  without 
any sense of what the policy was. And I think Mr and Mrs P knew that the single premium  
Ref: DRN02683485being added to the loan was £854.51 plus interest of £349.33 and the monthly cost was 
£16.72 each month as this information was, in my view, sufficiently clear on the loan 
agreement Mr and Mrs P signed. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
and Mrs P agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ps representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ps. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ps representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs P about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ps representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs P has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry  
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide ought to have done  either.  
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs P? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs P suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs P. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs P suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs P would have still taken  out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs P says they would not have taken it out and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN02683486As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs P had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr P being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs P chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs P thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs P have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
As Ive already  said, the information Mr and Mrs P were given about the cost was clear.  Mr 
and Mrs P were told the cost of the premium, the cost of the interest on the premium  and 
how much  it would cost each month.  But the information about other aspects of the policy,  
such as limitations and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs P would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ps 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim  were significantly 
different to what the policy actually did (an amount sufficient to meet their loan payments).
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs P thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or disease  which  Mr P 
knew about or ought to reasonably have known about before the start date of the 
policy or any condition  or disease for which Mr P had received  treatment,  advice or 
was referred for investigation in the 12 months  preceding the start date which  
recurred within 12 months of the first start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr P 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim Mr P be unable  to do 
his own job and note be doing any other work.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs P pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs P from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr P was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr P wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr P didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
To make a disability claim, Mr P needed  to be totally unable to do his normal job and not be 
doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what they would have 
expected to make a claim. So it seems unlikely  they would have thought Mr P would have  
Ref: DRN02683487been able to make a successful claim if he was still working, whether that be in his normal  
job or any other job.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs P would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
The policy did provide  a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled  early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Mr and Mrs P decided  to repay  the loan early and cancel the policy. I can see 
from the information provided by Nationwide that this is exactly what they did in March 2002 
and they were paid a proportionate refund of the premiums that werent  used. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs P would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  were  Mr P made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident 
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs P would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ps representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs P would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ps circumstances  as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr 
and Mrs P found themselves in as result  of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs P in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN02683488That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs P compensation, as that would put them in a better  
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ps representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs P in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0268348