K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the way his home  insurance claim for damage  caused by an escape 
of water was handled and settled by Legal  & General Insurance  Limited (L&G).
 
background
Mr H suffered an escape of water  from a pipe in his bathroom in March 2018. A week  later 
he submitted a claim under his home insurance  to L&G. He said his home had been 
extensively damaged by water escaping from a frozen pipe in his bathroom. He thought his 
hardwood floors would  need replacing  throughout, rooms would need redecorating and that 
hed need a new kitchen. 
L&G appointed a surveyor to visit Mr Hs house and validate his claim.  The inspection  visit 
was carried out six days later by which time Mr H had used a dehumidifier  to dry his home  
and had got two quotes from local contractors to carry out repairs. 
The surveyor inspected the house  and found  there  was no evidence  of any water  damage to 
the floors  in any of the rooms. He thought there was some evidence of water staining to the 
lounge ceiling, that the damage to the hall and main bedroom wasnt  consistent with a water 
leak, that there was no damage to bedroom  2, no sign of moisture  or damage to the 
bathroom and the damage to the kitchen floor was age related rather than related to the 
leak. Finally he thought that there  was no damage  to any of the kitchen units bar one and 
that they were  misaligned due to being  poorly  fitted rather  than being  damaged  by a leak.  
The surveyor recommended that the claim be cash settled for £799 based  on the staining to 
the ceilings. L&G paid Mr H £549 (£799.00 les the policy excess  of £250).
Mr H complained to L&G.  He said the surveyor had been dismissive  of the extent of the 
damage caused. He said the moisture meter the surveyor used didnt extend to reading 
moisture levels beyond a depth of 25mm and his floors were  40mm, so it was plausible that 
the meter hadnt picked  up the moisture present beneath. He said hed also used a 
dehumidifier to dry the house out which could also explain the lack of moisture  present. He 
thought the surveyor hadnt scoped  for the full extent  of repairs in relation to the damage 
caused. And he said he wanted L&G to send out another surveyor. 
L&G sent Mr H a copy of its surveyors report but maintained its decision to only pay for the 
ceiling staining.  In particular it didnt think the damage to the floor had been caused  by the 
leak. 
Unhappy with L&Gs response, Mr H complained to this service. He said he felt badly 
treated, cheated  and had been  left with a smell of dampness for months.  He also said 
thered never been an in-depth inspection  of the water damage. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt  think  it should be upheld. Mr H 
disagreed with our investigators findings. He sent in some  photographs of his damaged  
home and said the damage was totally consistent with the escape  of water that had 
occurred. He said the drying out would only have taken 3-4 days  to achieve  for an escape  of 
water such  as he experienced.  So he thought it was unsurprising that the moisture meter  
didnt detect any moisture. He asked for his complaint to be referred  for an ombudsmans  
decision. 
Ref: DRN03207452my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Hs home  insurance policy covers him for damage caused by an escape of water from a 
domestic water or heating  installation. L&G have largely declined  the claim (except for the 
staining to the ceiling) because the damage  Mr H had claimed for (principally to his 
hardwood floors and kitchen) wasnt consistent  with that which could be caused  by an 
escape of water. I have to decide  if L&G fairly  declined the majority of the damage Mr H 
claimed for and I have  to say that I think it has. 
The only expert evidence  about the cause of damage is the report produced by L&Gs  
surveyor. Ive read the report and Ive looked  at all the photographs (taken by both Mr H and 
the surveyor). Having done so, I dont think, that L&G reached  an unreasonable  conclusion 
about the claim. Given the extent of the leak that Mr H reported,  its reasonable to think  that 
the damage that it wouldve  caused would have been visible.  As it is, the damage  to the 
floors, to the extent there is any, doesnt seem consistent with water  damage.  I would expect 
to see visible  warping  or distortion following a leak like that reported  by Mr H. Yet I cant  see 
any such damage in any of the photographs.  In fact the damage appears to be the opposite 
in the kitchen with gaps  between the boards. 
The same can be said of the damage to the kitchen  cabinets. Mr H says they are misaligned 
because of water damage but there  was no evidence of any moisture  being  present in the 
kitchen, or of warping  or distortion to the cabinets caused water  damage.  So I dont think  
L&G unreasonably concluded the units were misaligned due to being poorly fitted  rather than 
because of water damage. 
Mr H says he used a dehumidifier for about  a week after the leak which could explain the 
lack of moisture present  when the surveyor attended. He said hed done  some research and 
found that a house that had suffered  a leak from a pipe for a few hours could be dried in 3-4 
days. Im unable to agree.  It is my understanding that it would take one dehumidifier  a 
number of weeks to dry an entire house out from an escape of water such  as that reported 
by Mr H. 
Its unclear to me if Mr H hired the dehumidifier or it was his own (although  I note the 
surveyor doesnt mention  he saw it). But in any event, Ive seen no documentary evidence 
related to its use. And I note that Mr H says he had to live with a smell of dampness  in his 
home for months despite the fact he says he managed to dry the house out to such an 
extent the moisture  meter was unable to detect any moisture. 
And its also unclear  to me why Mr H thinks the moisture  meter can only detect moisture in a 
solid surface up to a depth  of 25mm. Mr H thinks the moisture  could be there but at a depth  
greater than 25mm.  Even  if I were  to accept what Mr H has said, for moisture  to be present 
at a depth greater than 25mm water must first have passed through  the first 25mm. And I 
would expect there to be evidence  present that it had. But Ive not seen any. 
So I cant fairly conclude,  based on the available evidence, that L&G handled Mr Hs claim 
unreasonably or paid him an unfair settlement. I cant fairly ignore the only expert  evidence  
available  the surveyors report  because that wouldnt be reasonable. In the absence of 
any expert evidence  to support Mr Hs comments,  Im unable  to reasonably agree that this 
complaint should  be upheld.  
Ref: DRN03207453my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0320745