complaint
Miss A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham  & Gloucester, also 
known as C&G) mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Miss A took out PPI in 2002 at a meeting with the bank. She took out a monthly  
premium policy to cover her mortgage repayments. The policy  wouldve covered her 
mortgage repayments in full, plus a bit more, for up to 12 months per successful claim 
for accident, sickness  and unemployment. The policy cost £3 per month.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss A disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion. She said,  in summary, she didnt know she had PPI. She said she wasnt told it 
was optional and the fact that she signed  for it didnt mean that she wanted  it.
Miss As complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss As complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen the paperwork Miss A completed  to take out this PPI policy.  A separate PPI 
application was completed to apply for PPI. Miss A signed the form to say she wanted 
the cover. She also ticked the box on the mortgage application to say she wanted PPI 
and signed that application.  Miss A said that didnt mean that she wanted PPI. She said 
it wasnt made clear that PPI was optional and she didnt know  she had the cover. I cant 
know what was discussed,  but, I think the paperwork  Miss A signed made it clear that 
PPI was optional.  She signed a form headed  C&G  Payment Protection  Plus Proposal 
Form. This form just covered PPI. So, I think it wouldve been clear to Miss A what the 
paperwork was about. I think it more likely that at the time she said she wanted  PPI, 
knowing she didnt have  to have it to get the mortgage. I can understand why she may 
not remember it that way now, after so much  time.
Lloyds accepts it recommended  the policy to Miss A. So, as well as giving her information  
that was clear, fair and not misleading about  the policy,  it was also under  a duty to 
consider whether the policy was suitable for her needs.
The PPI didnt appear unsuitable  for Miss A looking at her circumstances at the time. 
Ill explain  why.
Miss A was eligible  for the policy and it appeared affordable.
She said she was eligible  to get sick pay through work. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of 
Miss As sick pay, and for up to 12 months per successful claim. Given that her home was 
at risk, I think it couldve provided  with a useful benefit. Repeat claims were possible under 
the policy, so it gave her long term protection for her mortgage.
Ref: DRN09751372I cant see that Miss A was affected by any of the main things that wouldve made it more 
difficult for her to make a successful claim. So, I think having better information about 
these things wouldnt have changed  her mind  about  taking out the policy.
Looked at overall,  I find PPI couldve been  useful if Miss A needed to make a claim.  Its 
possible there may have  been some shortcomings  in the way this policy  was sold.  I 
think Miss A couldve been given clearer information about the costs of the policy,  for 
example. But given  the cost of the policy per month, and that the PPI covered her 
mortgage repayments in full, I dont think this wouldve  put her off taking PPI out. I 
think, Miss A still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if shed  been  better  advised  and 
informed as it gave  her useful protection in her particular situation.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss A. But 
Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss A because:
 When the policy was sold, Lloyds  expected to get a high level of commission  and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Miss A 
about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Miss A, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss A.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Miss A any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already  done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0975137