K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains, in summary, that CashEuroNet UK LLC,  trading as QuickQuid, (QQ),  gave
him loans  that he couldnt afford  to repay.
background
Mr K was given three loans by QQ between June 2014 and March  2015. The loans have  all
been fully repaid, although Loans 2 and 3 were  repaid late. A summary of Mr Ks borrowing 
from QQ is as follows:
Number of Loan Date of Loan Loan amount Repayment date
1. 9/6/2014 £350 26/8/2014
2. 29/8/2014 £300 23/1/2015
3. 3/3/2015 £350 26/8/2015
Mr K said that QQs loans had trapped him in a debt spiral and with the repayments  taking
so much of his wages,  he had to borrow again to cover  the next months expenses.  He said
he had to borrow from other payday lenders  to repay his debts and have  money to live. He
said that QQ should have realised from the frequency of the loans  that his debt problems
were getting  worse.
QQ said that it had carried out a credit assessment before each loan which included
considering Mr Ks other financial commitments. It also looked at the information
Mr K had provided to it. It noted that Mr Ks income was always  more than enough to cover
his loan repayments. It also said that Mr Ks credit model score was never under the
minimum approval threshold for any of the loans for which he was approved.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator noted that QQ had agreed to refund the interest and charges which Mr K
had paid on Loan 3 so he didnt consider  this further. He said that the checks  which  QQ had
carried out before Loans 1 and 2 werent sufficient as Mr K was borrowing a large
percentage of his income. He said that QQ should  have asked Mr K about his regular
expenditure and his short term lending  before  Loans  1 and 2. Whilst the adjudicator thought
that the checks before Loan  1 werent  sufficient, he said that sufficient checks  would have
shown that Mr K had a disposable income of £875 to meet the highest  monthly  repayment.
So he didnt think better checks  wouldve made  a difference for this loan.
With regard to Loan 2, the adjudicator said that if QQ had done  better  checks, he thought
that QQ would  have seen that Mr K had other outstanding short  term commitments  at the
time of this loan. The adjudicator didnt believe that QQs  request for details of Mr Ks
monthly credit commitments  on his application form was clear  enough. The adjudicator
noted that Mr K had approximately £600  in outstanding commitments at this time. This
meant that he had a disposable income  of less than £300 to meet a repayment of almost
£400. So he thought QQ was wrong to give this loan. The adjudicator  recommended that QQ
should:
- refund all interest and charges that Mr K paid on Loans 2 and 3;
- pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment  to the date of
  settlement*;
- remove  any negative  information about Loans 2 and 3 from Mr Ks credit  file.
Ref: DRN04845412*HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
QQ responded to say that it had asked  Mr K on its loan application form for details of his
monthly credit commitments  and gave examples on its application form of the type of
information it was seeking, such as payday loans. It said that Mr K had told it that he had no
other credit commitments. QQ also said that it used  credit  checks to determine  a consumers
current financial commitments and it didnt  have any reason to believe that Mr K wasnt
being truthful about the information he had provided.
The adjudicator responded to say that he wasnt satisfied  that Mr K had seen the application
form which QQ had referred to. He also noted  that the form gave a range of amounts and he
didnt think these were  specific enough for QQ to calculate whether or not a loan was
affordable. And he also said that QQs credit check should have shown  Mr Ks other loans.
QQ responded to say that it had used  the particular application form seeking details of
payday loans  since 2014. It also said that its credit checks wouldnt have  necessarily seen
Mr Ks other credit commitments as it can take one to two months for these to be reported on
a credit file.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr K 
and to QQ on 27 April 2018.   I summarise my findings:
Id noted that QQ had offered to provide a refund and statutory interest in respect of Loan 3. 
So, except  for ordering  QQ to provide the offered redress later in this decision,  I said that I 
wouldnt make  any other  findings about that loan.
Id explained that QQ was required  to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to make 
sure Mr K could afford to repay  each  of the loans  before it lent to him. Those  checks  needed 
to be proportionate to things such as the amount Mr K was borrowing, the length of the
agreements and his lending history. But there  was no set list of checks QQ had to do.
QQ told us that before  lending Loan  1 to Mr K, it had asked him about his income, and made
credit checks. Mr K had declared a monthly income of £1,370 at the time of Loan  1. Loan 1
was to be repaid  over three months and the highest repayment amount was £453.25.  Id
thought about whether QQs checks were proportionate for this loan. On the one hand,  it
was the first time Mr K had borrowed from QQ, so there was no history of lending  or signs of
dependency on its loans.  But, on the other hand  the largest loan repayment was a fairly
large proportion  of Mr Ks income to repay in one month. I thought QQ shouldve gathered
some further  financial information  here, such as Mr Ks normal living expenses,  regular
financial commitments  and details  of any other short  term lending.  I couldnt see that it did 
this. So I didnt think QQ had gathered  enough  information about Mr K to reasonably assess  
if he could afford to repay the loan.
Loan 2 was taken out almost three months  after Loan 1, but just three  days  after Loan  1 was
repaid. The loan amount to be repaid (before the loan was deferred)  was £388.50. Again I
thought this was a sizeable proportion  of Mr Ks declared income  of £1,370  and I thought QQ
should have been concerned about  Mr Ks need  to borrow so soon after his last loan was
repaid. So, I thought that it would have been proportionate for QQ to have again gathered
Ref: DRN04845413information about Mr Ks income, regular living costs and expenditure including details of any
short term loans.
QQ has provided this service with details  of the information it sought from Mr K before
Loan 2. It asked for his housing costs, utilities, travel  expenses,  food costs,  monthly  credit
commitments and other expenses. These totalled  £425. Mr K had told QQ that he had no 
monthly credit commitments.
But QQ had also provided us with some  information  from its credit  checks before Loan  2. 
QQ told us that there was nothing in the checks to indicate that Mr K had extreme financial 
difficulties that would have led it not to lend to Mr K at that time. But I could see that the 
credit checks showed that Mr K had opened  five credit accounts in the previous three 
months whereas  Mr K had declared  in his application form that he had no monthly credit 
commitments. I thought  QQ should  have been  concerned about the differences  in what the 
credit check  had shown  and what Mr K had declared. So, I didnt think  that reliance  by QQ 
on Mr Ks declared information was a sufficient check here. And I thought it would have been 
proportionate for QQ to have asked Mr K some more questions about  what  its credit checks 
showed.
Although I didnt think the checks QQ did on Loans  1 and 2 were sufficient, that in itself
didnt mean  that Mr Ks complaint  should  succeed. I also needed to see whether what  I
considered to be proportionate  checks would have shown QQ that Mr K couldnt  sustainably
afford the loans.
For Loan 1, as Id said above, I thought that QQ needed to supplement  the information it 
held about Mr Ks income by asking him about  his regular expenditure and other  short term
borrowing. To find out what regular expenditure and what,  if any, outstanding short term
commitments Mr K had, Id reviewed  his bank statements for the month before Mr K took
Loan 1 to see what better checks would have shown QQ. I couldnt see that Mr Ks 
statements specifically referred  to most of the normal regular living  costs  that Id have 
expected to see such as rent payments, council tax, water and utility  bills. I also couldnt
see any regular financial commitments. But Id also noted that Mr K told QQ before Loan  2 
(over two months after Loan  1) that his regular expenditure  was £425. I couldnt see any 
great change in Mr Ks circumstances between the loans. So, if Mr K had been  asked for 
details of his regular expenditure before Loan 1, then I thought it was likely that Mr K would 
have similarly  told QQ it was £425. I also couldnt  see that Mr K had taken  any other short  
term lending before Loan 1. So I thought  proportionate  checks would have shown the loan 
as affordable.
With regard to Loan 2, I couldnt see that QQ did ask Mr K any more about his outstanding
credit. So Id tried to find out more about this by looking at Mr Ks bank statements for the
month prior to Loan 2, to see what better  checks would have shown QQ. And I could see 
that Mr K did have three short  term loans from other  short  term lenders which were likely to 
be repayable around the same time as Loan 2 was due to be repaid. These totalled £723. It 
was clear to me that if QQ had specifically asked  Mr K about  his other short  term lending,  it 
would have realised  that Mr Ks financial position  was far worse than hed been declaring.  
So, if QQ had done what I considered  to be proportionate checks, I thought  it was likely that 
it would  have concluded that the Loan  2 repayment of £388.50 wasnt sustainable.  Mr K 
would have been left with insufficient disposable income to repay it after the deduction from 
his declared income  of £1,370 of his declared  regular expenditure of £425 and the 
repayments for his other short term loans.
Ref: DRN04845414So, I thought that QQ needed to pay Mr K some  compensation  relating to Loan 2, along with
what it had already offered in relation to Loan  3. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr K or QQ my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  CashEuroNet  UK LLC,  trading 
as QuickQuid, to:
1. Refund all the interest and charges applied to Mr Ks accounts for Loans 2 and 3;
2. Pay 8% simple interest* on those refunds from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement; and
3. Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ks credit file with regard to those
    loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.
QQ responded to say that the credit check Id referred to before Loan  2 was in fact from 
July 2016, around  two years after the loan.  It didnt have the actual credit check it made 
before Loan 2. So it believed my decision was reached based on a belief that the credit 
checks Id seen were from before the second loan was funded, which wasnt  the case.
Mr K responded to say he accepted my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that QQ now says that the credit check  I relied  upon  in reaching my provisional 
decision wasnt the credit  check it had made before  Loan 2. So I had relied on this 
information in error.  And it would be difficult for me to rely on that credit check as being 
representative of what the position  was at the time of Loan 2 as that credit  check was from 
around two years later. 
But I think that it would be reasonable to conclude that any credit  check  on Mr K carried  out 
around the time of Loan 2 would have shown some  existing credit commitments. I know  from 
sight of Mr Ks credit report and bank statements that Mr K had taken out short term lending 
in June, July and August 2014. So, on balance, I think its likely that the credit  check QQ 
made before Loan 2 would have  shown that Mr K had other  credit  commitments. So I think 
QQ should have  realised that Mr Ks response to its request for details of his other credit 
(that he had none) was incorrect and QQ shouldnt  have relied on it in calculating his 
disposable income.  So I still think it would have been proportionate for QQ to have asked 
Mr K some very specific questions about  what I think  its credit  check  was likely to have 
shown. I cant see that it did this.
If QQ had asked Mr K specifically about  what the checks showed,  as Ive said above, I think  
it would  have become  aware that Mr K had three other outstanding  payday loans totalling 
£723 from two other short  term lenders. Ive seen  these in his bank statements for the month  
before Loan 2.  So, if QQ had done  what I consider to be proportionate checks, I think its 
likely that it would have  concluded that the Loan 2 repayment of £388.50 wasnt  sustainable. 
Ref: DRN04845415So I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. It 
follows that I uphold  part of the complaint and require QQ to pay Mr K some compensation 
as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading  as QuickQuid, to:
1. Refund all the interest and charges applied to Mr Ks accounts for Loans 2 and 3;
2. Pay 8% simple interest* on those refunds from the date of payment to the date of
settlement; and
3. Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ks credit file with regard to those
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  15 April 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0484541