K822xcomplaint
Mrs F complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent her money 
that she couldnt afford to repay.
Mrs F wants Sunny to refund the interest and charges that she paid on the loans and 
remove any negative information  about the loans from her credit file.
background
Mrs F took out 24 instalment loans with Sunny between August 2015  and April 2018. 
Mrs F says that she ended up needing to take out more payday loans to keep up with her 
repayments.
The adjudicator recommended that Mrs Fs complaint be upheld in part. The adjudicator 
thought that Sunny shouldnt have  agreed loans six to 24. She recommended that Sunny 
refund the interest and charges that Mrs F had paid on the affected loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny remove loans six onwards entirely from Mrs Fs 
credit file. 
Sunny offered to put things right for loans 12 to 24 but Mrs F wasnt  willing  to accept this 
offer so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When Sunny  lent to Mrs F, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The 
CONC carried guidance for lenders about responsible  lending.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs F could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN09054832the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mrs F could  sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the customer should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Fs complaint.
Mrs F didnt  disagree with the adjudicators  opinion  about loans one to five. Because of this, I 
dont think there is any ongoing  dispute  about these loans. So I wont  be making a decision 
about this lending. But as the loans were part of the borrowing relationship  that Mrs F had 
with Sunny, I will take them in to account  when considering her other loans.
Sunny has already offered  to put things  right in line with what  I would have ordered it to do if 
Id upheld Mrs Fs complaint about  loans 12 to 24 so my decision will focus on the loans that 
remain in dispute   loans six to 11.
loans six to 11
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs F with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have  realised that it shouldnt 
have given Mrs F any more loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Fs case,  I think that this point was reached  by 
loan six. I say this because the overall  pattern of Mrs Fs borrowing suggested that shed 
become persistently reliant on short term loans.
Loan six was the sixth loan that Mrs F had taken out in about seven months. Although  it was 
less than Mrs Fs first loan  loan six was the second loan shed taken in the same month. 
So Mrs F was borrowing the same amount seven months later that shed borrowed for loan 
one. And Mrs F had been overlapping loans since loan two. 
Ref: DRN09054833Mrs Fs pattern of overlapping loans continued  from loan six onwards.  Mrs F often had three  
loans open at the same time,  which meant that she had to make  more than one loan 
repayment each  month.  
I think that this pattern  of repeated borrowing meant  that Sunny should have realised that it 
was more likely than not Mrs F was reliant on short term lending  and needed to borrow  
further to fill the hole repaying her previous loans was leaving in her finances.  And that 
taking on more debt wasnt sustainable.
I think that Mrs F lost out because Sunny continued to lend money from loan six onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Fs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time she owed Sunny money was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mrs Fs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
Overall, I consider that its fair to uphold Mrs Fs complaint about loans six to 11 as well as 
the loans that Sunny  has already offered to do something about. 
I understand that Mrs F still owes money  on loans 22 to 24. As shes  had the benefit of the 
money lent it seems fair to allow Sunny to apply the refund against the principal outstanding 
balance. 
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mrs F paid on loans six to 24;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loans  22 to 24;
if it chooses to, apply the refund  against  any outstanding principal balance  due before 
paying the remaining balance (if there is any) to Mrs F**;
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about loans 
six to 24 is negative. So all entries about loans six to 24 should be removed from        
Mrs Fs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If Sunny intends 
to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding principal balance, it must  do so after deducting 
tax.
**If after carrying out the above steps there is still an outstanding balance,  I remind  Sunny of 
its obligation to treat Mrs F reasonably and sympathetically in any repayment discussions.
Ref: DRN09054834my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Fs complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit  
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0905483