K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint about Policy Services Limited  (PSL) concerns two key issues.  He says:
1.PSL provided incorrect information about the financial adviser to whom it was paying an 
ongoing fund based fee of 0.5% pa (the ongoing  fee); and
2.The financial adviser actually paid the ongoing  fee, Mr A, failed to provide  advice, which 
has negatively impacted the investment  performance of his pension plan.
To resolve  this complaint  Mr B wants PSL to pay him compensation equivalent to the 
ongoing fees it paid to Mr A during the period he didnt provide advice in connection with his 
pension plan.
background
Mr A, while working for a different business, sold a pension plan to Mr B. 
During 2007 Mr A started working for a new business. As part of this change Mr A delegated 
administration of Mr Bs pension plan to PSL. This meant the ongoing  fee would be 
redirected to PSL from which it would deduct its administrative costs and pay the balance to 
Mr A. 
During 2011 Mr A ceased to be a regulated financial adviser; the ongoing fee continued to 
be paid to him, in line with the agreement he had entered  into with PSL in 2007.
During 2013 Mr Bs pension plan was internally transferred  to a new plan with the same 
provider as part of a pension sharing order  as part of this transfer,  the original policy  terms 
continued including payment of the ongoing fee to Mr A.
Between 2013 and 2017 PSL sent letters to Mr B to tell him the pension plan provider had 
been in contact about carrying  out an annual review. The letters  stated that if Mr B had any 
queries he should contact  the financial adviser named in its letters  (and to whom  it was 
paying the ongoing fee) or PSL direct   these letters incorrectly named a different financial 
adviser that had never provided  advice  to Mr B.
During 2017 Mr B established that the ongoing fee had continued to be paid to Mr A. He was 
unhappy that Mr A had received the ongoing fee but hadnt  provided advice for a number of 
years. Mr B contacted the provider to instruct it to stop paying the ongoing  fee to PSL,  which 
it did in March 2017. 
Mr B then complained to PSL about  the incorrect information it had provided regarding  the 
financial adviser to whom it was paying the ongoing  fee. Mr B believed  this had resulted in 
him not receiving advice  sooner, negatively  impacting the investment performance of his 
pension plan. He said had PSL provided correct information that the ongoing fee was in fact 
being paid to Mr A he would  have contacted  him to request advice. Mr B was also concerned 
that PSL had continued  to pay the ongoing  fee to Mr A after he ceased  to be a regulated 
financial adviser in 2011.
Ref: DRN01966972PSL didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it said:
When the plan was originally set up it would  have been part of the providers terms and 
conditions that it pay the ongoing fee to Mr A;
When Mr A changed jobs and started working for a new business in 2007, the 
administration of his clients  was transferred to PSL  the purpose  of doing this was to 
ensure that the new business  would  continue to receive information about Mr Bs 
pension plan and to ensure the provision  of ongoing administrative  services;
As part of that transfer in 2007 Mr B agreed that the ongoing  fee be redirected to PSL  
and the agreement between PSL and Mr A was that it would first deduct a portion of the 
ongoing fee to cover its administrative  costs  and pay the balance to Mr A;
Between 2013 and 2017 PSL issued letters to Mr B to tell him the pension plan provider 
had been in contact about carrying out an annual review and that he should  contact  his 
financial adviser  PSL apologised that its letters incorrectly named a different financial 
adviser rather than Mr A to whom  it was in fact paying the ongoing fee; and
PSL had fully adhered to the terms of the contract  it had entered into with Mr A to pay 
him the ongoing  fee  and there  was no requirement for Mr A to be regulated in order  to 
receive this.
Mr B was unhappy with PSLs response and referred the matter  to us. Our adjudicator  didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. In summary, our adjudicator said:
No agreement existed  between Mr B and PSL  rather  an agreement existed between  
Mr A and PSL;
PSL had acted in accordance with the agreement it had entered into with Mr A  namely 
to deduct from the redirected ongoing  fee its administrative costs  and pay the balance to 
Mr A;
PSL had fulfilled its administrative duty by sending correspondence to Mr B;
Each letter issued  between 2013 and 2017 advised Mr B to contact his financial adviser  
or PSL direct if he didnt  have  any arrangement in place and wanted advice;
PSL had already done enough by apologising for providing  incorrect  information to Mr B 
about the financial adviser linked  to his pension plan and to whom it was paying the 
ongoing fee;
The ongoing fee arrangement Mr B entered into with Mr A when he started the original 
pension plan was before the Retail Distribution Review became  effective  in 2013 and 
was therefore  likely  in connection with the initial advice  to start the plan and not for the 
provision of ongoing advice; and
If Mr B believed  he had an arrangement in place with Mr A about the provision of 
ongoing advice  he should contact him directly to raise  his concerns.
Ref: DRN01966973Mr B didnt accept our adjudicators conclusions. He continued to believe  that the incorrect 
information provided by PSL had negatively impacted the investment performance of his 
pension plan due to a lack of advice. So he asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive read Mr Bs comments in response to our adjudicators findings.  Its clear hes very upset  
and believes  this service  is biased in favour of financial businesses  and that we exist to 
protect them. Im sorry he feels that way. I think our adjudicator adequately explained the 
reasons why he reached his conclusion not to recommend this complaint be upheld.  The 
nature of our role means its likely one or both parties to a complaint will disagree with our 
conclusions.
My role as an ombudsman is to consider the information provided afresh and reach  what 
I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts.  In deciding  whats  fair and 
reasonable, I take account of relevant law, regulation,  guidance and what I consider to be 
good industry practice. And as a fresh pair of eyes looking at this complaint, its for me to 
decide, based on the information provided,  whats more likely than not to have happened.
For the avoidance of any doubt  I have read and considered the whole file. I have confined 
my comments to what I think  is relevant.  If I havent commented on any specific  point made  
its not because  Ive not thought about it or missed  it, but because  I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to decide what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome in the wider  
context of the complaint thats been made.
Scope of this decision
Mr Bs pension  plan started many  years before administration was transferred to PSL in 
2007. Under this decision  I can only consider the acts or omissions  of PSL. Therefore Ive 
carefully considered  whether PSL made  an error or treated Mr B unfairly  and, if so, what  
impact this had, if any.
Basis of the ongoing  fee
Mr B thinks  he should have been  provided  advice in exchange for payment of the ongoing 
fee deducted from his pension plan.  He has an old style pension  plan (the original terms of 
which continued when  it was internally transferred to a new pension plan in 2013  as part of a 
pension sharing order).  
Although not clear,  it seems likely that when setting  up the original pension plan Mr B agreed 
to pay the ongoing fee to Mr A in connection  with the initial  sale,  sometimes known as trail 
commission. This type of commission  may have been intended  to cover an ongoing  service,  
but was more often  paid each year to the financial adviser who sold the plan without any 
obligation to review their clients  investments or provide further  advice. This cannot be 
proved definitively  in this case  since the pension plan provider is unable to locate and 
provide a copy of the original application  form to this service.  
Ref: DRN01966974In any event, the basis of the ongoing fee and what was agreed  between Mr A and Mr B in 
respect of this is not something for which PSL is responsible  and is therefore  irrelevant  in the 
context of this complaint.  No agreement existed between Mr B and PSL to arrange or 
provide advice. 
Furthermore, Mr As regulatory status  is irrelevant. PSL simply acted in accordance with the 
agreement it had entered into with Mr A  namely  to deduct from the redirected ongoing fee 
its administrative costs and pay the balance to Mr A. 
Transfer to PSL 
I can see that when  administration of Mr Bs pension plan was transferred to PSL in 2007  he 
signed an agreement  confirming that any commission/fees payable  are redirected to Policy 
Services. Therefore Im satisfied Mr B was made aware that the ongoing fee would be 
redirected to PSL (from  which  it would deduct a portion to cover its administrative costs and 
pay the balance  to Mr A).
Based on the evidence  it seems the genesis of this complaint is Mr Bs appointment of a new 
financial adviser during  2017 and the realisation that the ongoing fee was continuing to be 
deducted from his pension plan but he hadnt been provided advice for a number of years. 
The new financial  adviser believes Mr Bs pension plan could have performed better, which  
hes understandably linked to a lack of advice. While that might be true, I dont  agree PSL is 
to blame for this since  no agreement existed between it and Mr B that it would arrange or 
provide advice. 
Provision of incorrect information
Its not in dispute  that between 2013 and 2017 PSL provided incorrect  information  to Mr B 
regarding the financial adviser linked to his pension plan and to whom it was paying the 
ongoing fee. Mr B has placed a great deal of weight on this specific error and believes it 
resulted in him not seeking  advice sooner, negatively impacting the value of his pension  
plan. This error occurred  after Mr A ceased to be a regulated financial adviser  and PSL 
assigned a different  financial advisers  name  to Mr Bs record.  However, in reality, the 
ongoing fee continued to be paid to Mr A. PSL accepts it made this error and has already 
apologised to Mr B for this. To determine if that apology is sufficient, Ive thought about what  
impact, if any, this error  had on Mr B and if he would have acted differently had he been 
provided with correct information  about  Mr A.
In making this complaint, Mr B says he didnt receive advice from the financial adviser 
incorrectly named in PSLs letters and to whom  he believed  the ongoing fee was being paid. 
That other financial adviser made no attempt to contact Mr B because  he wasnt  his client. 
PSLs records show Mr B first attempted to contact the other  financial adviser during 2017 
when he phoned  PSL to request contact  details.
Despite having  never having been  advised  by that other  financial  adviser  incorrectly  named 
in PSLs letters, Mr B says he wasnt worried about  this because I was of the view that my 
investments were well placed. Therefore, logically, it must follow  that had PSLs  letters 
correctly referred to Mr A that he would have been  similarly content,  particularly  since by 
2013 he had known Mr A for a number of years and presumably trusted him more  than a 
financial adviser he had never met and who he was apparently content to manage his 
pension plan.
Ref: DRN01966975 
So, on balance, Im not persuaded Mr B would  have acted any differently had Mr A been 
correctly named in PSLs letters as the financial adviser to whom it was paying the ongoing 
fee. I think PSLs apology  is sufficient in the circumstances. 
Therefore I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct PSL to pay to Mr B 
compensation equivalent to the ongoing  fees paid to Mr A during  the period he didnt provide 
advice in connection with his pension  plan, as hes requested.
If Mr B wants to pursue  his concerns that Mr A should have provided advice in exchange for 
the ongoing fee, this will need  to be considered as a separate complaint.
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  about Policy Services Limited. I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my final decision before 25 February 2019.
Clint Penfold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0196697