K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999 by post.  Ms M says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her the PPI.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 28 May 2019.  A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
Bank of Scotland didnt need  to refund all of the cost of the PPI, but did have to refund any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
28 June 2019.  But neither  Bank of Scotland nor Ms M or her representatives have sent me 
anything new to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have  sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having  reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before: that Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI, but does  have to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI.
what Bank  of Scotland needs to do
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bank  of Scotland must also pay back  to Ms M any extra 
interest she paid because of that.
That means Bank of Scotland should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Ms M 
the difference between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and 
profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. It also means Bank  of 
Scotland should pay Ms M 8%* simple  interest  if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms M can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN07216302my final decision
The PPI policy was not mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc doesnt  have  to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, as it has offered  to do.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN07216303COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 1999 by 
post. Ms M says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  this case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think this policy was mis-sold, because:
Ms Ms credit card application had a section for PPI. It gave an overview of what the policy was 
for and had two options  to choose from: one to take PPI and one to turn it down. Ms M signed  the 
box for the option to take PPI, and left the box to turn it down blank. She signed for PPI separately 
to signing the agreement as a whole to confirm what was on it. So I think that Bank of Scotland 
made it clear Ms M didnt have  to take out PPI and that she chose to take it at the time  though 
I can understand why she might not remember doing  so after so many years.
Bank of Scotland  didnt give Ms M personalised advice about  buying  PPI, so it didnt have to 
check if the policy was right for her. It did have to make sure Ms M got the information she 
needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible  the information Bank of Scotland gave  Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then,  is whether  I think better  information  was likely to have 
changed her mind.  Here, Ms M chose to take out the policy - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI.
While I understand  Ms M had some  benefits through work, the PPI wouldve  paid out on top of 
those, and it offered her more comprehensive cover  especially when her work benefits  reduced 
to just half pay. So the policy could  have been useful for Ms M in case  something went wrong. 
And it was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Ms M could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking out the 
cover. 
This means  I dont think Bank of Scotland has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But I think Bank  of Scotland has to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms M, because: 
Bank of Scotland  got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should  have told Ms M about  that. Because Bank of Scotland  didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has now basically  offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
Ref: DRN07216304what I think Bank  of Scotland should do here
I think  Bank of Scotland  has to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit  share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I think Bank of Scotland  should  also pay back to Ms M any extra 
interest she paid because of that.
That means Bank of Scotland should re-work  the credit card account  and pay back to Ms M the 
difference between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. It also means Bank of Scotland  should  pay Ms M 
8%* simple  interest if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms M can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my provisional  decision
Based on what Ive seen so far, I agree with our adjudicator that the PPI policy was not mis-sold  
which would mean Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But I do think  Bank  of Scotland plc has to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit  share  it got 
that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  Bank of Scotland plc has now offered to do this, and 
I think  that is a fair way of resolving this case.
Please could  Ms M and Bank  of Scotland plc send me any more information or comments  to look at 
by 28 June 2019. After  that, Ill reconsider  the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0721630