K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complained  about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) handling of a claim on her 
car insurance policy. 
background
Mrs W was involved  in an accident in September 2017 that wasn't  her fault,  which resulted in 
the total loss of her car. RSA settled Mrs Ws claim by paying her £1,200 for the pre-accident 
market value of her car. She was unhappy with their service and complained about a 
number of things,  but RSA didnt accept that theyd done anything wrong.
Mrs W remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service.  One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint.  She felt that RSA hadnt done  anything wrong. 
As Mrs W didnt agree  with our investigator, the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mrs W, but I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
In her complaint, Mrs W has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But in this decision I will focus  on what I consider to be the key issues. My role is to 
decide if RSA have dealt with Mrs W in a fair and reasonable way.
the car wasnt sent to Mrs Ws preferred garage
Mrs W complained  that RSA didn't have her car physically assessed  by her own garage. 
But, soon  after Mrs W told RSA of her wish for her garage to look at the car, she told RSA 
that as her own garage didnt have a bodyshop, they couldnt accept the car. RSA had the 
car assessed and declared as a Category B total loss. But Mrs W didnt agree with the 
categorisation so she wanted her car sent to her own garage to assess it. RSA sent Mrs Ws 
garage their report and photos of the damage  to her car. Mrs Ws own garage agreed  with 
RSAs decision and categorisation  and said there  would be no point in them  physically 
inspecting the car given  the information they saw was enough for them  to agree with RSA. 
So I dont  think that Mrs W was disadvantaged by RSA not sending  her car to her preferred 
garage. Im therefore not upholding this part of her complaint.
total loss categorisation of the car
RSA told Mrs W that her car was a Category B total loss. That meant by law her car couldnt 
be repaired  and put back on the road. But in December 2017,  Mrs W said she saw the HPI 
checker that said her car was a Category  C total loss, which would have meant  the car could 
have been repaired  and returned  to the road. Given the cars  sentimental value to Mrs W, it 
was always her wish to keep and use her car. It was also the cheapest option available to 
her to keep  her mobile.  So Mrs W felt that she was misinformed by RSA.  But RSA explained 
that the cars  categorisation  has always been Category B, and the HPI entry was an input 
error. They later corrected that error.  Mrs Ws own garage also agreed  with RSA that her car 
was a Category  B. So as the car was never  a Category  C, Im satisfied Mrs W wouldnt have 
Ref: DRN00474262been able to repair the car and therefore I dont think she was disadvantaged by the error. 
Im therefore  not upholding this part of her complaint.
the car being  moved to RSAs salvage agents
Mrs W was unhappy that RSA had her car moved  to their salvage  agent. Its correct that the 
car was moved to the salvage agent in October 2017. But that is not unusual  once a car has 
been declared a Category B total loss. But I can see that even  though the car was moved, 
RSA gave instructions  that the car should  be kept safe and not disposed of until the 
outstanding issues  with Mrs W had been  resolved. I understand that the car was disposed  of 
in mid-2018 after Mrs W accepted the total loss settlement. I dont think  RSA did anything 
wrong by moving  the car to their salvage  agent, so Im not upholding this part of the 
complaint.
telephone conversation with RSAs engineer in October 2017
RSAs engineer rang Mrs W in October 2017  to discuss her car. Mrs W complained that the 
engineer shouted at her during that conversation,  but RSA have denied  that. I have listened
to that call but I dont  agree with Mrs W that she was shouted at. While the engineer was 
firm, I cant say that he shouted or that he was aggressive. Im therefore not upholding this 
part of the complaint.
the cars  number plate
Mrs W said the number plate on her car was cherished and she was unhappy  that it was 
taken away with her car. RSA said that Mrs W would have to make  a request to the DVLA  to 
retain the number  plate  and they sent her information about how she could do that. So to 
retain her number plate  requires Mrs W to go through a process  with the DVLA and its not 
something RSA have control over. I dont think RSA have done  anything wrong so Im not 
upholding this part of the complaint.
hire car
A hire car wasnt given to Mrs W until around  four days  after the accident, which I 
understand caused her inconvenience. I also understand that when she was given a car she 
wasnt told about the cars features  and how to use it. But Mrs Ws policy didn't entitle her to 
a hire car and RSA wasn't  responsible for supplying it. Mrs W was offered, and she 
accepted, the services  of what is known as a credit hire company. The credit  hire company 
is separate to RSA,  so RSA had no control over them. One of the roles of the credit hire 
company was to provide Mrs W with the replacement car, so any delay in providing her with 
a car, and any other issues in relation to it, is something she would have to take up with 
them and not RSA.
But notwithstanding the fact that RSA werent responsible for the issues  with the 
replacement car, to assist  Mrs W, and as a gesture  of good will, RSA offered her £50 
compensation for the inconvenience she suffered  with the delay in being given a car. They  
also agreed to pay up to £500 to cover any additional replacement hire car costs that Mrs W 
may have  incurred. So while RSA werent responsible for the issues with the replacement  
car, I think  they were  reasonable  in the steps  they took in order to help Mrs Ws situation.  So 
Im not upholding this part of the complaint. 
communication
Ref: DRN00474263Mrs W has said that RSAs communication has been poor throughout her claim and 
complaint. She said they failed to keep  her updated  at every stage. She also said she would 
have preferred paper communication whereas most of the communication  has been by 
phone. But I cant  say its unusual or unacceptable for a business  to use the phone  as the 
main method  of communication with their customers. And from the information I have seen, 
RSA have made reasonable efforts to keep  Mrs W updated of developments.  
Mrs W was also unhappy that RSA sent her emails to her late husbands  email  address. But 
RSA said that Mrs W told them that she could access  emails sent to that email address. But 
when in October 2017 Mrs W told RSA that she didnt want to be contacted  in that way RSA 
stopped. So I think RSAs communication with Mrs W was reasonable.
increased cost of a replacement car
Mrs W said that she had to buy a new car to replace  the car she lost as a result of the 
accident. She said she had to take out a three  year lease agreement with monthly  
repayments of over £200. She said she also had to pay a one off fee of £99 to get her new 
car. But given Mrs Ws car was a total loss that couldnt be repaired and returned  to the 
road, I cant  say RSA were responsible for the costs  Mrs W incurred in getting a new 
replacement car. 
I sympathise with Mrs Ws situation. Im aware  that shed recently suffered bereavement. 
And I can understand the loss of her car - to which she had a strong  emotional  attachment   
had made  matters more  difficult to deal with. But I don't think  that was because RSA dealt 
with her unfairly or unreasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.  
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman 
   
Ref: DRN0047426