complaint
Mr G is unhappy  with TSB Bank plcs decision to not refund him after he lost money as a 
result of a scam.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint in the provisional decision issued on 22 March 2019.  
The facts  of the case and available information havent changed since then so I wont repeat  
the detail here. A copy of the provisional  decision is attached at the end of this final decision.
Since issuing the provisional decision both parties have responded. Mr G has said he broadly 
agrees with the findings and is happy  to accept the outcome I set out.
TSB responded and agreed  to refund the disputed transactions and pay interest  at the account  
level for the period Mr G was without the funds. It accepted Mr G was likely unaware of the 
transactions being carried out. It was silent on the payment of the £300  compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G and TSB have both accepted the outcome as explained in my provisional decision  and so 
theres no need for me to go over the details  again.
TSB didnt  comment on the £300 compensation I set out in my provisional  decision. I dont take 
that to mean its necessarily disagreed.  But there wasnt an explicit acceptance of that part of 
the redress and so Im confirming here that it should pay the £300. Thereve been  no new 
arguments put forward by either party on the issue and so theres no need  to revisit my 
reasoning on that part of my determination.  Ive already set out why it should  be paid.
my final decision
Ive found that Mr G didnt  authorise  either of the transactions and he didnt, where 
applicable, act with gross negligence. And as such the complaint should be upheld.
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc should:
 refund  £4,600 to Mr Gs account;
 reconstruct the account as if the money  had never left adjusting any fees,  charges  
and interest accordingly;
 if Mr Gs account  would  have  been in a credit balance at any time following these 
adjustments TSB should pay the interest  the account would have benefited from; and
 pay compensation of £300 to Mr G. This has been a very worrying  time for him, not 
receiving a refund for a transaction he didnt authorise,  after having  been the victim of 
the scam.
If TSB considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
any interest  award, it should tell Mr G how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Ref: DRN0175768Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0175768  Copy of Provisional decision
complaint
Mr G is unhappy with TSB Bank  plcs decision  to not refund him after he lost money as a result of 
a scam.
Mrs G  Mr Gs wife  has been involved in this case and so Ill refer to her involvement where 
appropriate.
background
Mrs G received a call on the home  landline on 10 October 2017 from someone saying they were 
from a telecoms  provider. It was the same telecoms provider Mr and Mrs G were genuine customers  
of. The caller said they were  getting in touch as they suspected Mr and Mrs Gs broadband was 
under threat from hackers and viruses.
Mrs G was somewhat  suspicious of the caller and asked how they might verify themselves. Mrs G 
has explained  how they already knew some details  about her and her husband but the caller also 
offered to send an email  which would  verify they were genuinely calling from the telecoms  company.
The email was received  by Mrs G and having looked at it she was satisfied it was genuine. So she 
went on to discuss her broadband account and whether there had been any problems  with it. The 
caller offered to increase the level of protection on Mrs Gs computer.
I think its fair to refer to this caller as the fraudster  from this point. All parties  agree  theres been a 
scam with a fraudster (or fraudsters) involved.
This led to Mrs G allowing remote access to her computer and the fraudster  then took
control. A link for downloading teamviewer  a piece of software  which allows  remote  access
 had been provided  in the email sent to Mrs G. Mrs G has explained that she was aware someone 
was gaining remote access, but believed it was for the purpose of protecting her computer.
The fraudster said they could  also check Mrs Gs bank account  to make sure it hadnt been subject 
to any attack. Mrs G was persuaded to log in to her online account, held with a different bank; not 
TSB.
K800x#10
Ref: DRN0175768The fraudster said theyd not been able to see any attempts to attack or access Mrs Gs bank 
account. These points form part of the overall circumstances of Mr Gs complaint.  Im not actually  
dealing with what happened to Mrs G or her accounts.  But the circumstances are relevant. Mrs G 
has said there  were  no losses  from her account.
The fraudster then asked  Mrs G if there was anyone else in the household that might also benefit  
from a security check of their own computer  and accounts. Mrs G explained  that her husband   Mr G 
 was at home and so the call was passed on to him.
Mr G has told us that the fraudster said they needed  access  to his computer,  as they had with Mrs G, 
in order to clear it of viruses.  Mr G has explained he doesnt regularly use computers or his internet 
banking and so isnt particularly confident with either. Hes told us he knew someone else was 
accessing his computer,  though thought it was only so they could carry  out security checks. It isnt 
clear whether Mr G downloaded teamviewer himself, to his own computer, or whether he used Mrs 
Gs computer on which access had already  been given. What does seem to be the case, and 
accepted by both parties, is that the fraudster did have remote  access to the computer Mr G was 
using at the time.
Mr G explains he was then shown a series of screens which seemed to indicate  that his computer 
was under attack from hackers. On the back of this Mr G was persuaded to log in to his online 
banking as he was told that could also be under attack. But he couldnt  see
anything that was happening on screen; the person  accessing the computer appears to have been 
obscuring what was going on. Mr G describes what he could see as lines and lines of numbers, which 
the fraudster  said showed hacking attempts. He says the fraudster
prompted him to enter numbers on the computer, but he couldnt see what  was actually 
happening. He says he was aware he was logging  into online banking though.
Mr G says the fraudster  told him to turn off his mobile phone, which he says he did, putting  it in the 
kitchen as instructed.  Hes provided copies  of his mobile  phone bills to show he didnt make any calls 
that day. Although there is an outbound call to a landline  just before the fraudulent transfer,  but Mr G 
has said he didnt make it.
The call ended with Mr G believing hed secured  his account. He says he didnt  know any money 
had left his account at this time.
On 17 October 2017  Mr G received a letter from the bank saying that he was overdrawn. He couldnt 
understand how that was possible as hed recently received a statement  showing a credit balance.
Mr G contacted  the bank  the same day and discovered that hed been the victim of fraud. Two 
payments had left his account totalling £4,600. The first was for £3,800 and took Mr Gs account  into 
an overdrawn position. The second was for £800, further increasing the overdrawn balance.
Mr G says he didnt make or authorise those payments. The money had gone to a new payee  set 
up on the day. Mr G said he didnt  set up that new payee and believed itd been the fraudster that 
set it up and made the transfers. The fraudster also transferred £1,100 between  Mr Gs accounts  in 
order to facilitate  the fraud.
Ref: DRN0175768Mr G asked TSB to look into what had happened and refund him the money. The bank  investigated 
and said it wouldnt  be able to give Mr G his money back. It said hed authorised a new payee and 
allowed access to his internet banking.
TSB explained when  the new payee had been set up thered  been an automated security
call to Mr Gs mobile phone. TSB says the call had been answered  with a security code then being 
entered into the phone. The code would have been displayed on the screen of the computer being 
used for the online banking and payee set up. It said it had also sent Mr G a text about the new 
payee.
TSB has provided  us with the message that plays during the automated security call:
"This is an automated call from TSB to confirm you are setting up a new online payment.  You're 
currently setting up a new payment to account  ending  xxxx for amount £x and xpence.  Please  key 
in or say the four digit code now. If you're not expecting this call or haven't  set up this payment 
please press  star now".
The security  code referred to is displayed  on the online banking screen whilst the payee is being  set 
up. The code has to be typed into the mobile phone while on the call. TSB has said this call was made 
to Mr Gs mobile number and was answered  successfully  and it has provided evidence which it says 
supports that.
TSB has also provided the message contained in the text sent to Mr Gs mobile phone. It reads:
You set up a new recipient  on 10/10 at 13:48:51  from account ending ****. If this wasn't you please 
call 0345*******  or +4420********  from abroad.
TSB has said this text was sent to Mr Gs mobile number and was received by him less than a minute  
after it was sent.  It has evidence to show the time the text was sent and received.
TSB has relied  on the call and the text message as evidence that Mr G knew a new payee was being  
set up and payment  being made.  It says,  contrary to what Mr G has said about  his mobile being  
switched off, he must have answered the call and entered the code  to
authorise the first payment  to the new payee. It also says he must have received the text message 
when it was sent as its records  show it was received less than a minute after it was sent.
TSB has provided  some notes taken at the time the fraud was reported which say:
BT Scam - Loss.  Teamviewer,  customer authorised [security call] under  the pretence of securing 
account
And separately:
[Mr G] was going to make enquiries into what calls were received by him, on his phone, that day. His 
intention to provide evidence he did not approve any funds to leave his account  by taking the [security 
call]
TSB has relied  on this evidence in declining to refund Mr G.
Ref: DRN0175768Mr G wasnt happy with TSBs response. He acknowledged hed given  over access  to his online 
banking but he said hed not taken a call from the bank or input a code into his phone. He also said he 
didnt receive a text and said his phone had been off at the time the fraud was underway.
TSB didnt change its position  and so the complaint was brought  to us for investigation. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and thought the complaint should be upheld in part.
He felt Mr G hadnt authorised the transactions in question  as he hadnt known  there were  
payments being made. He said Mr G had authorised  the setting up of a payee but that wasnt the 
same as authorising  a payment.
The investigator did feel Mr G had been grossly negligent  with his security information. Hed allowed 
someone pretending to be from a telecoms provider access to his online banking and had divulged 
personal information.  He explained that meant TSB could  hold Mr G liable for the transactions up to 
the point where the overdraft  was being used. At that point the provisions  of the Consumer  Credit  Act 
1974 applied and so Mr G couldnt be held liable for the loss on the basis hed been grossly 
negligent. In light of that he said the bank should refund that portion of the transactions.
Mr G and TSB were unhappy with the outcome. Mr G maintained that hed had no call from the bank.
TSB initially said it shouldnt  be responsible  for any planned overdraft cost;  it didnt believe  the CCA  
applied for a pre-arranged  overdraft. It later changed  its position to say that it believed Mr G 
authorised the transactions and so it shouldnt  be responsible.
TSB also pointed to the various warnings it gives to customers about  scams and provided 
screenshots of its online banking pages  where  such warnings are displayed.
As neither party has agreed with the outcome the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
In conducting my review  Ive put together a timeline of what happened  on
10 October 2017, including all relevant events. Ive constructed  this using the electronic records 
TSB has been  able to provide.
time (hour: minute: seconds) event
13:27 Mrs G receives scam  BT email
13:34:38 online banking accessed
13:39:27 £1,100 transferred between Mr Gs accounts
13:45 outbound call from Mr Gs mobile
13:47:22 a new payees details are created online
13:47:39 the system searches for Mr Gs details  in order to 
make the security call
13:48:49 the security call is successfully made to Mr Gs mobile 
phone with the security  code being entered
13:48:51 text sent to Mr Gs phone confirming the new payee
13:48:52 payment of £3,800 made to the new payee
13:51:38 payment of £800 made to the same payee
13:51:52 log off from online banking
Ref: DRN0175768my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ill consider  any further submissions from either party but at present 
Im minded to uphold this complaint.
Mr Gs health  has significantly deteriorated since the events  subject to this complaint.  And so Mrs G 
has been handling the complaint for him. This change in Mr Gs health,  and the time thats passed 
since the scam, has meant some details have been difficult to confirm.  And so the background  above 
represents my best understanding  of what happened at the time.  There may be some points in the 
timeline above which  one party or the other disagrees  with. But the overall  circumstances described 
above appear  to be accepted by all.
The rules of our service mean that I have  to determine this complaint by reference to what I consider 
to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. When  considering what is fair and 
reasonable, I am required  to take into account:  relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where  appropriate,  what  I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the relevant  time.
relevant considerations
TSB, as an FCA regulated firm, provided  a current deposit  account.  As such  the FCAs 
overarching principles  for business apply including the requirement to Treat Customers Fairly.
This fraud  took place in October 2017,  so of particular relevance to my decision  about  what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint,  are the Payment  Services Regulations 2009 
(the PSRs 2009) which  apply to transfers like the ones made  from Mr Gs account.  Among other 
things the PSRs  2009  say:
Consent and withdrawal  of consent
55. (1) A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the payer for the 
purposes of this Part only if the payer has given  its consent to
(a) the execution of the payment transaction; 
Obligations of the payment service  user in relation  to payment instruments
57.(1)  A payment service  user to whom a payment instrument has been  issued must (a) use 
the payment instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions
governing its issue and use; and
(b) notify the payment  service provider  in the agreed manner and without undue delay on 
becoming aware of the loss, theft,  misappropriation  or unauthorised use of the payment 
instrument.
(2) The payment service  user must on receiving a payment instrument take all reasonable  steps to 
keep its personalised security features  safe.
Ref: DRN0175768Evidence  on authentication and execution of payment transactions
60.(1)  Where a payment  service user
(a) denies  having authorised  an executed payment transaction; or
(b) claims  that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed,  it is for the 
payment service provider to prove that the payment transaction was authenticated, 
accurately recorded,  entered in the payment service providers accounts  and not 
affected by a technical breakdown  or some  other deficiency.
(2) In paragraph (1) authenticated  means  the use of any procedure  by which a payment service 
provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment  instrument, including its personalised 
security features.
(3) Where a payment service user denies having authorised an executed payment transaction, the 
use of a payment instrument  recorded by the payment service provider is not in itself necessarily 
sufficient to prove either that
(a) the payment  transaction was authorised by the payer; or
(b) the payer acted fraudulently or failed with intent or gross negligence to comply  with 
regulation 57.
Payment service  providers liability for unauthorised payment transactions
61. Subject to regulations 59 [Notification of unauthorised or incorrectly  executed payment 
transactions] and 60, where an executed payment  transaction  was not authorised  in accordance 
with regulation 55, the payment service provider must  immediately
(a) refund the amount of the unauthorised payment  transaction to the payer; and
(b) where  applicable, restore the debited payment account to the state it would  have been in 
had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken  place.
Payers liability for unauthorised payment transaction
62.(1)  Subject to paragraphs (2) , the payer is liable  up to a maximum of £50 for any losses 
incurred in respect  of unauthorised  payment  transactions arising
(a) from the use of a lost or stolen payment instrument; or
(b) where the payer has failed to keep the personalised security features of the 
payment instrument safe, from the misappropriation of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payer
(a) has acted fraudulently;  or
(b) has with intent or gross  negligence failed to comply with regulation  57.
Ref: DRN0175768consent
If a payer denies authorising  a payment the PSP must prove that it was authenticated, accurately 
recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts and not affected  by a technical  
breakdown or some other deficiency (PSR  60). In other words, the PSP must show,  from a technical 
point of view, that the steps needed for authorisation were taken. But authentication of a payment is 
not enough to amount to authorisation by the payer. The payer  must  also have consented to a 
payment transaction  taking  place.
PSR 55 doesnt elaborate  on what constitutes  consent beyond saying that it must be given in the 
form, and in accordance  with the procedure, agreed between the payer  and its payment service 
provider. The payment services directive  itself (which  the PSR2009  implement) doesnt explain 
what consent  means here, but says In the absence of such consent, a payment  transaction shall be 
considered to be unauthorised. And the FCAs
2013 guidance on the PSR2009 didnt  say anything  further about  what  consent  means.
TSBs terms  and conditions from the time dont give a definition  of what it considers consent to mean.
Its commonly understood that giving consent means giving permission for something to happen. It 
follows that, in the context  of payment transactions, consent requires  the payer  to have knowledge 
that a payment  transaction will be executed. So a payment services user who is unaware  a payment 
is being  made  cant rightly  be said to have given their consent to make a payment.
Overall, where  a payer denies making  a payment I need to be persuaded that the payment was 
authenticated and that the payer consented to a payment being  made  from their account.
gross negligence
Negligence is often referred to as a failure  to exercise reasonable care.  So, the starting point here is to 
consider whether Mr G failed  to exercise reasonable  care i.e. whether  a
reasonable person in Mr Gs position acting reasonably would have acted  as Mr G did. But I also need 
to consider, if Mr G was negligent, whether it is fair and reasonable to say that her negligence 
amounts to gross negligence.
Whether a customer has acted with gross negligence is something  that can only be assessed on a 
case by case basis taking into account all the circumstances. The term is not defined in PSR 2009 
nor in the first Payment Services  Directive. However,  recital  72 of the second Payment  Services 
Directive provides as follows:
In order to assess possible  negligence or gross negligence on the part of the payment service  user,  
account should be taken  of all of the circumstances. The evidence and degree of alleged  negligence 
should generally  be evaluated according to national law. However, while the concept  of negligence 
implies a breach of a duty of care,  gross  negligence should mean  more  than mere  negligence, 
involving conduct exhibiting a significant degree of carelessness; for example, keeping the 
credentials used to authorise a payment transaction beside the payment instrument in a format that is 
open and easily detectable by third parties
Ref: DRN0175768Reflecting this, the FCA, in its document setting out its role under the Payment Services
Regulations 2017, says:
 we interpret  gross  negligence to be a higher  standard than the standard  of negligence under 
common law. The customer needs to have shown a very significant degree of carelessness.
Although neither of these is directly relevant to this complaint, they are of value as a relevant  
consideration in the absence of contemporaneous interpretative guidance,  and because they inform 
the meaning  of a concept that has been in place for some time (in the Banking Code).
When considering  gross negligence in a commercial  contract context, Mance  J in Red Sea
Tankers Ltd v Papachristidis (The Ardent)  [1997]  2 Lloyds Rep 547, 586 said:
If the matter is viewed  according to purely  English principles of construction,  Gross  negligence is 
clearly intended to represent  something more  fundamental than failure to exercise proper skill and/or 
care constituting negligence as a matter of ordinary  language and general  impression, the concept  
of gross negligence seems  to me capable of embracing not only conduct undertaken with actual 
appreciation of the risks involved, but also serious  disregard of or indifference to an obvious risk.
I think it fair and reasonable  to conclude (and I note the FCA expressed a similar  view in its 
document), the use of gross  negligence,  rather than mere  negligence, suggests a lack of care that 
goes significantly beyond ordinary negligence.
considering credit
Where credit is involved in cases  like this the PSRs  make  provision for the Consumer Credit Act 
(CCA) 1974 to apply in place  of certain sections  of the PSRs. These provisions  cant  be excluded by 
the account terms. The relevant sections of the CCA here involve a credit facility.
credit facilities
Where a credit facility  has been used  the relevant legislation is Section 83 of the CCA  1974. It states:
83 Liability  for misuse  of credit facilities.
.
(1) The debtor  under  a regulated consumer  credit agreement shall not be liable to the creditor 
for any loss arising  from use of the credit facility by another  person not acting, or to be 
treated as acting, as the debtors agent.
the General Terms & Conditions  of Mr Gs account at the time
The following extracts from the general  terms and conditions of Mr Gs current account are relevant 
to this case. These terms and conditions  broadly  reflect the provisions contained  in the PSRs  2009.
4.3 You must:
a) follow instructions we give you, which we reasonably  consider are needed  to protect  
you and us from unauthorised access to your accounts;
Ref: DRN0175768b)   not let anyone else use any of your cards or Security Details,  not even someone sharing 
a joint account with you as he or she will have  his or her own;
c)   keep your cards and Security Details secure and protect  cards from damage;
d)   do all you reasonably  can to make sure no one finds out your Security Details, for example 
by not:
i. choosing  obvious passwords or codes(such as your date of birth) as part of your 
Security Details;
ii. writing  your Security Details on, or keeping  them  with your cards or 
banking documentation;
iii. writing down your Security Details  in a way that is recognisable; or
iv. letting  anyone  listen in to your calls with us, or watch you entering or 
making use of your Security Details;
e)   not let anyone else give instructions, or have access to information, on your accounts  
unless he or she has a separate arrangement  with us to do so, or you have authorised  
him or her to do so under condition  13;
4.6 You must  tell us as soon as you can (see the contact  details section)  if you:
(a) notice any errors;
(b) find our services  are not working;
(c)  think  any cards or Security Details have  been  lost, stolen, damaged or are being  
misused; or
(d) think someone may be accessing your accounts without  your authority or that 
someone has discovered your Security Details.
15.2 You will not be liable for any payment instructions  you did not give yourself, even if they were 
given using your card or Security Details, unless  we can prove either:
(a)  that you have acted  fraudulently  in which  case you will be liable for all payments from the 
account that we have been unable to stop; or
(b)   that you have been grossly negligent with your card or Security  Details. Depending on the 
facts of the case and any legal  requirements  that apply, you may be liable for payments  from 
your account but only until you have  told us that your card or Security Details have been lost, 
stolen or could be misused.
If you are not liable for a payment, we will refund the amount  of the payment and any charges 
or interest  you paid as a result of it, and pay you any interest we would have  paid you on that 
amount, and will not have any further liability to you.
Ref: DRN0175768key questions
Taking all the relevant considerations into account, including those set out above,  I think there are 
three questions that are particularly relevant to my consideration about whats fair and reasonable 
here.
1.   Were the disputed transactions authorised by Mr G?
2.   If they werent,  what  are the implications  of the CCA?
3.  If the provisions  of the CCA  dont  apply, did Mr G fail with intent  or gross 
negligence to comply with the terms and conditions of the account?
Though there is naturally some overlap  of events when answering these  two questions, I will 
approach them in this order.
were the disputed transactions authorised  by Mr G?
Mr G had been convinced  by the call he received  from the fraudster. That much is clear.
Hes been the victim of a social engineering scam. I dont know the exact details of what was 
discussed with Mr G and his wife. I cant now know what it was that convinced him to take
the course of action that he did.
We have  asked for some more detail  from Mr G here but little more about  the sequence of events 
has been forthcoming, which is understandable  given  what  Ive said about Mr Gs health and the 
time thats passed. But all parties seem  to accept Mr G was tricked by fraudsters  into doing what he 
did and Im satisfied that was the case too. I think  its worth  noting here that, at this point, Im 
considering whether Mr G authorised the transactions himself; not whether  he was grossly  
negligent.
Theres been  some commentary from the bank over how long a period of time this scam was drawn  
out. Mr G seems  to have said there were numerous calls across  a number of hours. But the bank has 
said the fraud  took place within a short space of time, going by the times  of online banking  log ins and 
when transfers were  made.
Again, I cant know exactly what happened  here. But I think its enough for me to say that Mr and Mrs 
G were clearly persuaded they were talking to a genuine  person and that they had genuine cause for 
concern. And its certainly possible, given Mr and Mrs Gs account(s) of what happened, that the 
fraudster spent a good deal of time setting up the scam through questioning, setting up remote  
access and generally convincing  first Mrs G and then Mr G
 of the need  to act quickly to protect their accounts.  I dont  think the timings  of the 
transactions themselves  show  the scam took place  over only a short  time.
Mr G doesnt dispute that he gave the fraudster access to his computer and logged into his online 
banking himself.  Hes also said he probably gave the online banking  details to the fraudster. And its 
clearly through these  actions that the fraudster was able to gain access  to Mr Gs account.
But in doing so he wasnt aware that there were payments  to be made  from his account. He didnt 
know the details of any transfers that were being set up or made  at this point. And
Ref: DRN0175768indeed with the online  banking information alone the fraudster  most likely wouldnt have been 
able to access  any of the funds in Mr Gs account(s).
Its important  to note here that Mr G wasnt carrying out the actions on his online banking himself. 
And so for the purposes of the account  terms and conditions, notably 15.2, it was the fraudster  that 
was accessing the account  and the fraudster  that went on to set up the new payee. Mr G didnt 
know about and hadnt consented to those actions.
There are then two different  versions of events for what  happens once the new payee was set up 
online.
Mr G has maintained that he had turned off his mobile  phone, as instructed  by the fraudster. Hes said 
he was even  told to put it in a different  room, which he did. He says that, having done so, he cant  
possibly have  answered the security call made by TSB. Hes also said he never  received the text 
message it sent.
The bank says it made  the call to Mr Gs registered mobile number. They  say it was answered and 
the security code was entered into the mobile  phone, allowing the new payee to be set up. TSB has 
provided its electronic records which show this and its confirmed its the only way a new payee could 
be set up online. Its also supplied  evidence of the text message being sent and received. And so it 
believes Mr G did have his phone  on, did answer  the call and did receive the text.
I have to make a finding on what I believe is most likely to have happened here.
Ive considered the evidence provided by TSB. It has a step by step record of the online banking 
activity that day. I can see the time and date being recorded for a number of actions including the 
initial log in, the transfer of £1,100 between Mr Gs account and the creation of the new payee. I can 
then also see a record  of the security call being made as well as a record of it being  successfully 
completed. All of these  steps run in the sequence Id expect to see when a new payee is successfully 
set up, created and paid money  to. Theres also confirmation of the number  dialled  Mr Gs genuine 
number, held by the bank for several years  within  the electronic record.
In addition  to the record  of the call itself I can see the text message was sent to Mr G. And Im 
satisfied it was received  less than a minute later, as TSB has said.  Ive seen  evidence from TSB to 
demonstrate that. Its also provided evidence of texts sent on different dates  where there has been a 
delay in the message being received due to either there  being no signal on the phone  or it being 
switched off. So I can see theres  a difference between when a text is received right away and when 
theres a delay.
This evidence is persuasive in showing  it is more likely than not that Mr G did receive the security 
call from TSB, followed  by the text. But before concluding that it is the most  likely scenario  Ive 
gone on to consider alternatives.
Im aware that some  sophisticated fraudsters are able to have calls to mobiles  diverted through  
various means so that a customer  never receives  security calls and texts like the ones in this case. 
Sometimes that involves whats known  as a sim swap. But there doesnt appear to be any evidence 
thats happened  here.
A sim swap  would  normally involve the fraudster obtaining a new sim card for the target  victims  
normal mobile  number. The fraudster then uses that new sim to receive any
Ref: DRN0175768incoming calls and text which allows them to pose as the customer  for the purpose of security  
checks.
When that does happen, the original sim would normally become inactive and the customer  cant  
make or receive calls or text messages.
Mr G has confirmed there  were no significant  problems  with his mobile  phone  after the fraud. He 
mentioned some calls cutting out and a crackling on the line. But hed been able to use his phone and 
his number normally at all times to complete calls and send text messages. Thats supported by what  
hes told us but also by his phone bills from the time.
Mr G has also contacted his mobile  phone provider  form the time and its confirmed it had no record  of 
any issues from the time. It also confirmed  no new sims were issued.
The way in which the fraud was set up is also not consistent with the case  of a sim swap. Mrs G 
appears to have  taken a call somewhat out of the blue. It doesnt appear as though Mr G was an 
intended target at the time as he wasnt asked for directly.  If a fraudster had enough information to 
order a replacement  sim card, and had taken the necessary steps to do so, Id expect them to know 
who to ask for when they called to put the scam into action. Theyd  have needed that information 
and more  to get the sim card in the first place.  Mr G wasnt asked for immediately though;  the 
fraudster looks to have targeted Mrs G first.
A less technical method  of diverting calls from a mobile  phone is to manually set it up on the handset 
itself. That would require call forwarding  to be set up on the phone and involves taking a number  of 
steps to do so, including putting in a forwarding phone number. Mr G doesnt recall  taking such steps.
Mr Gs confirmation that he could  still receive calls after the scam again suggests call 
forwarding wasnt set up. He wouldnt have received those calls without taking  steps to 
deactivate the call forwarding.
A further consideration here is that call forwarding wont automatically forward on text messages  
in the same way it forwards calls. So even if call forwarding had been set up, Mr G would still 
have received the text message from the bank.
If a fraudster had been  able to divert Mr Gs calls in some way Id expect him to have experienced 
problems in using his phone as a result. That doesnt seem to have been the case, based on what 
Mr G has told us.
Ive seen Mr Gs mobile phone bills from the time and I can see theres  an outbound  call from his 
mobile at 1:45pm, the time at which  the scam  is unfolding, to what appears to be a number known 
for scams.  I only say its known in as far as internet searches reveal it as being  so. But there is an 
outbound call and it suggests the phone was switched  on, at least  at that time.
Mr G has said he didnt make that call but its difficult to see how someone else would have been 
able to dial out from his number.  Its possible the number  was called form his mobile phone in order 
to check the legitimacy of the incoming  contact  number of the fraudster. Ive no way to confirm  the 
purpose of the call or what might have been discussed, if anything.
I can also see Mr G told the bank at the time, based on its notes, that he intended to contact his 
mobile phone provider to ask for records about any oncoming calls.  Whilst on one hand
Ref: DRN0175768that suggests  he was confident he didnt  receive any calls it also raises the question of why he didnt 
say at the time that his phone would have been off. It may be that he did say that to the bank and it 
simply isnt in their notes. But I can only go off of the available records.  And I find the other factors Ive 
mentioned above to be more persuasive in determining the likelihood of who answered the security 
call.
All of this persuades me its more likely than not that Mr G did receive the security call and the text 
message from the bank.  I cant say it is definitely what happened. Mr Gs version of events may be 
correct and someone else was able to somehow answer  the call. But the evidence I have persuades  
me the call was completed as TSB say.
But that conclusion in of itself doesnt mean Mr G authorised the transactions.
Mr G had clearly been convinced by the fraudster when the security call was made. I can then 
understand why he might  have been  persuaded to take the call and follow the steps at the time.
Mr G had been convinced  by the fraudster that his account was under attack and that he needed to 
act with urgency  to protect himself and his money. But there was no call to the bank to question  
what had happened until a week after the transactions. This suggests  to me that Mr G was most  
likely coached  by the fraudster into believing that, despite what  the text and call said,  there was 
nothing amiss. Or, alternatively, he was distracted by the fraudster so that he didnt fully hear or 
understand the content of the call.
The content  of the call itself is an important consideration in deciding whether  Mr G authorised the 
payments or not. Its true to say the message given is clear and it does specifically state  that a 
payment is about to made, if the correct  code is given  in response.
But I dont believe Mr G truly thought money was about to leave  his account. I think its more likely  the 
fraudster convinced  him he was protecting his account  and that the code needed to be entered to 
protect his money, rather  than to send it out of his account. Thats reflected by him not contacting the 
bank for a week, as already mentioned, along with his version of events  thereafter.
Mr G doesnt ever appear to have said that he understood money  was being  moved out of
his account at the time.  The most contemporaneous record of events we have are the banks notes 
which confirm Mr G told the bank at the time that he acted to secure  his accounts.
Ive discussed the meaning of consent in respect of authorising a payment in this provisional decision 
already. And I go back to where Ive said a payment services user who is unaware
a payment is being made cant rightly be said to have given their consent to make a payment. Im 
satisfied Mr G was unaware a payment  was being made when he answered the security  call. That 
means the payment  that was made following the security call was unauthorised as Mr G didnt  
consent to it.
Once the first payment  is made  the fraudster proceeds  to make a second payment, this time for £800,  
using the same  payee  details. As the payee is now set up and active  theres no need for a further 
security call or any text messages. The payment can just be made online.
Ive already explained how the fraudster is in control of Mr Gs online banking at this point.  Its the 
fraudster that is carrying out all of the actions for the second payment and Mr G is unaware of 
whats happening.
Ref: DRN0175768Mr G has no knowledge  that the fraudster is making  a second payment to the same payee. And so I 
dont believe it can be said Mr G authorised that payment either.
Im satisfied that neither payment from Mr Gs account  was authorised. And so I need to go on to 
consider the next key question.
what is the impact  of the CCA on the transactions?
A partial amount of the first transaction (£158.72) and the full amount of second transaction (£800)  
was the banks money. That is to say it was money taken from an overdraft  which  is a form of credit 
facility.
Section 83 says a customer isnt liable  for any transactions from a credit facility unless they were  
authorised by the customer or someone acting as their agent. And it applies in place of the PSRs in 
this instance.
Mr G neither authorised  the transaction himself  nor had someone acting as his agent. His divulging of 
security details, his granting of remote access to his computer or any other of his actions cant be fairly  
said to have  established the fraudster as his agent. That isnt
something Mr G understood to be happening  and its not something he consented to. And so
TSB cant hold him liable for any loss of funds from the credit facility.  There is no test of gross 
negligence that applies when payment  is made from a credit facility  and so I dont  need to make a 
finding as to whether his actions were grossly negligent for the purpose of the second transaction  or 
a portion of the first.
TSB appears to have been under the impression, at least  for a time, that such  provisions  would  
only apply to an unarranged overdraft. But thats not true and the CCA makes  no reference to that 
being the case.
TSBs terms  and conditions are silent on section 62 of the PSRs where  liability for the first
£50 of any loss is covered. And so it isnt able to withhold  that £50 from the refund.
That leaves the remaining £3,641.28 of Mr Gs own money  to be considered under the final key 
question.
did Mr G fail with gross  negligence to comply with the terms and conditions of his account?
Ive talked about what  I think is most likely to have happened as the scam  unfolded. And Im carrying 
those findings through into my assessment of whether I think Mr G acted with gross negligence.  That 
is to say, I believe its more likely than not he did answer the security call himself. I wont go on to 
repeat my reasoning for believing  that to be the case.
Mr G cant be said to have  been grossly  negligent solely  on the basis that he gave away security 
information to a third party or that he answered  a security call from the bank. I have to consider the 
circumstances in which  that information was disclosed and what led Mr G to take the actions he did in 
order to reach a fair and reasonable  outcome.
Mr G has been the victim of a sophisticated  fraud.  And the circumstances in which he fell victim 
include the fraudster having already convinced Mrs G that there was a genuine  need for him to 
speak with a genuine representative of their telecoms provider.
Ref: DRN0175768Mrs G herself  has said the fraudster already knew some details about  her. They were able to discuss 
information about her broadband account. She still challenged the fraudster  and thats what led to the 
email being sent to her. It was at this stage she was persuaded the call was genuine.
I think its worth commenting here that I have  seen the email  sent to Mrs G and I can see how she 
and Mr G, or indeed a reasonable person in the same  circumstances, would have thought it to be 
genuine. The email address  looks  like a genuine one for the telecoms  provider the fraudster  claimed 
to be calling from, as does the content.  And it links through to the companys genuine website. There 
is another link within the email which  prompts the download of teamviewer. I can see how,  in the 
circumstances, that would appear normal. The fraudster said remote access was required and the 
apparently genuine email  contained  a link to download the appropriate software.  So all seemed to be 
in order.
Mr G then takes  over the call once the fraudster has had Mrs G log in to her own online banking. It 
seems likely  though  its important to remember I make no findings on this point
 that the fraudster  had been attempting to obtain funds from Mrs Gs own accounts.  This looks to 
have been unsuccessful. And so when the phone is passed to Mr G hes accepted Mrs Gs belief  
whether explicitly stated  or not  that the call is genuine.  I think a reasonable person in the same 
circumstances would act as Mr G did. An important point  to note here then, is that the fraudster didnt  
have to convince Mr G of where they were calling  from and why.
Its unclear  whether Mr G allowed remote access  to his own computer or whether he took over from 
Mrs G on her computer, with access already  established. Ive not been able to confirm the sequence  
of events.  But whether access to the computer came as a result of Mrs G downloading the software 
or Mr G doing  so himself doesnt appear to be particularly  relevant to the outcome. I think its enough 
to know that Mr G was aware that someone else was accessing his computer at the time he was 
logging on to his online banking.
Once remote  access was established and Mr G logged into his online  banking, the scam was able to 
unfold. The fraudster was able to set up a new payee. Following that, Mr G was then persuaded to 
respond to the security  call which allowed  the first payment to go through.
I dont believe  though  that, on balance, Mr G has been grossly negligent in falling  for the tricks  of the 
fraudster. In concluding this I need  to address the initial log on and then the call.
Ive already set out how both the courts and the FCA have interpreted  gross  negligence and how it is 
a higher bar than ordinary negligence. And so Ive gone  on to consider Mr Gs actions in the particular 
circumstances. I must consider whether his actions fell so far below the standard  of a reasonable 
person that it would be fair to say hed failed with gross  negligence to keep his security information  
safe or to comply with the terms and conditions  of the account.
Gross negligence isnt an abstract  concept and must be considered with regard to what was 
happening at the time. Mr G was the victim of a sophisticated scam involving what  is termed
phishing as well as social engineering. Both methods are used by fraudsters  to lure people  into 
a false sense  of security and to believe theyre talking to a genuine company. Here, a company Mr 
G was genuinely a customer of.
Ref: DRN0175768The illusion thats created  is to make the victim act with urgency, the driving  force behind  that 
being the need to protect  their account. I need  to consider Mr Gs actions with these factors  in 
mind.
Mr G was convinced that his computer  and bank account were the subject of multiple  hacking 
attempts. The fraudster seems to have been able to obscure what  was happening  on screen  and 
show lines of code which to Mr G, a layman  in computer terms,  looked convincingly like hacking 
attempts. That in turn created the fear that his bank account was
under immediate  threat. The fraudster assured Mr G they could help and so he acted  quickly to accept 
the offer of assistance by logging into his online banking. In the moment and in a sense of worry  I can 
see how someone would be persuaded to act in the same way.
In order for the scam  to be successfully carried out from this point,  the security call needed
to be answered. And Ive found its most likely Mr G did answer that call. I also think its most  likely Mr 
G was somehow coached through that call by the fraudster. I cant say how that
was achieved exactly as Mr G has maintained  he didnt take the call. But I still believe  its most likely  
as it seems the spell cast by the fraudster would  have  otherwise been broken had Mr G had no prompt  
from them  and listened to the call in detail.
This service has seen many cases involving similar  social engineering  scenarios.  And from that 
experience I believe its more likely than not one of two things happened with regard  to the security 
call. The first possibility is the fraudster was able to convince Mr G that the call hed receive was 
completely normal and was to do with protecting his account. In this situation the fraudster  would likely  
have coached  Mr G to believe that, despite the wording  of the message, he should follow the 
instructions to ensure no money left his account.  I note this is supported by the banks early  notes 
from when the fraud was reported, so seems
quite likely.
The second  possibility  is that Mr G didnt  actually  listen to the message at all after answering  the 
phone. Its quite possible the fraudster sufficiently distracted  Mr G so that he didnt hear the message 
and then followed the fraudsters instruction to enter the required code into the handset.
Mr G was still convinced of his need to act at this stage.  The banks notes from Mr Gs reporting of the 
fraud refer to him acting in order to secure his account. It would seem that he said words  to that effect 
to the bank at the time. So it seems likely the fraudster said the call would be for the purpose of 
preventing fraud,  rather than facilitating it.
Whichever of these two possibilities may be true Im satisfied Mr G believed he was taking the 
necessary steps to secure his account.  The wording of the security call doesnt alter my opinion 
there. And so I dont find that Mr G acted with gross negligence.
TSB has pointed to the various warnings it gives on its website and in other formats.  But given 
the situation in which this scam unfolded, and the fact those warnings werent presented to Mr G 
at the time, they dont  alter my view of Mr Gs actions.
Given the sophisticated  nature of how the scam was set up and executed I dont think Mr G acted 
with gross negligence. His actions didnt  fall far below  those of how a reasonable person might act in 
the same circumstances. And so TSB should refund the remaining part of the first transfer not 
accounted for in my earlier findings.
Ref: DRN0175768K822xmy provisional  decision 
Ive found that Mr G didnt authorise either of the transactions and he didnt,  where 
applicable, act with gross  negligence. And as such the complaint should  be upheld.
My provisional  decision  is that TSB Bank plc should:
refund £4,600 to Mr Gs account;
reconstruct the account as if the money had never left adjusting any fees,  charges  and 
interest accordingly;
if Mr Gs account would  have  been in a credit balance at any time following  these  
adjustments TSB should pay the interest the account would have benefited from;  and
pay compensation of £300 to Mr G. This has been a very worrying time for him, not 
receiving a refund  for a transaction he didnt  authorise, after having  been the victim of the 
scam.
If TSB considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax from any 
interest award, it should  tell Mr G how much its taken  off. It should  also give Mr G a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ill consider any further information presented by either party  before issuing my final 
decision. Any further submissions should reach me by 29 March 2019.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0175768