K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Optimum  Credit Limited unfairly  declined  to transfer their 
mortgage to a new property. They ask that it refunds the arrangement  fee, early  repayment 
charge (ERC) and interest.
background 
Mr and Mrs W took out a 21 year second  charge  mortgage with Optimum  in November 2017. 
They took out a five year fixed rate product. Mr and Mrs W asked to transfer the mortgage to 
a new property, which Optimum declined. Optimum applied an ERC  when  they repaid the 
mortgage.
Mr and Mrs W say they chose  the mortgage because they were told it could be transferred to 
a new property. They say they were misled  about  this. Mr and Mrs W also say they paid 
charges of about £12,000 which they would like to be refunded.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Optimum  said it 
doesnt allow mortgage transfers. Its mortgage offer says this might  be possible as it might 
offer this in future. It asks that customers contact  them if they think  they might  want to 
transfer the mortgage to another property. Optimum had applied an ERC of about £2,550 
and interest up to the redemption date in accordance  with the mortgage offer.
Our investigator said the mortgage wasnt recommended by Optimum.  If Mr and Mrs W 
believe they were  given incorrect advice about  whether the mortgage was transferrable they 
should contact  the mortgage broker that advised  them.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree.  They  said Optimum  should have told them  when they took out 
the mortgage that it didnt allow transfers. They said the mortgage offer is misleading  as it 
says transfers depend  on the customers circumstances  and the property meeting lending  
criteria. In fact, this isnt a service Optimum offers. Mrs W said Optimum  added an 
administration fee to the mortgage which theyd also like returned.
I didnt agree with all of the investigators recommendations, so I sent a provisional decision  
to the parties  to explain what  I thought  should  happen. I said that it wasnt fair for Optimum  
to apply the ERC. While  there was no guarantee that a transfer request would be agreed,  Mr 
and Mrs W were entitled to expect that Optimum would review their request fairly. In fact, 
Optimum didnt offer transfers at all. I said that Optimum should refund the ERC, with 
interest at 8% simple,  and pay £250  compensation to Mr and Mrs W.
Optimum didnt agree. In summary, it said the mortgage offer didnt guarantee that a transfer 
request would be successful. Optimum  said it didnt understand the basis  on which  Id 
awarded compensation as Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have been  able to choose a different 
mortgage on an execution  only basis.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN09699012what happened?
Mr and Mrs W took out a second charge mortgage in November  2017  with a five year fixed  
rate product.  The mortgage was recommended by a broker.  They  say at that point they 
didnt intend to move, but wanted a mortgage  that was transferable if they did move.
Mr and Mrs Ws family circumstances meant they had to move home while  the fixed rate 
product applied. They contacted Optimum about  transferring  the mortgage to another  
property. It declined, saying this isnt a service  it offers.
Mr and Mrs W repaid  the mortgage in April 2019.  They paid an ERC of £2,551 and an exit 
fee of £95. 
was it fair for Optimum to apply the ERC?
The mortgage offer sets out the ERC  payable if the mortgage is repaid within  the product 
term, expressed as a percentage of the amount repaid. At the time that Mr and Mrs W repaid 
the mortgage the ERC was 4.5 % of the amount repaid.  I think  the ERC of £2,551 is in 
accordance with the 4.5% ERC set out on the mortgage offer. 
I think Optimum  was entitled to apply the ERC, under the terms of the mortgage. However, 
this doesnt mean it was fair to do so. 
The mortgage offer says:
You may be able to transfer this second charge mortgage to another property. This 
depends on your circumstances and the property meeting our lending  criteria at that 
time and is not guaranteed. If you think you might like to do this please  contact us so we 
can confirm whether this is possible.
Optimum says Mr and Mrs W didnt say they intended to move when it spoke to them before 
they took out the mortgage. This is consistent  with what Mr and Mrs W have said:  they didnt 
know when they took out the second  charge mortgage that theyd need to move  home.
Many providers now offer mortgage products that can be transferred or ported so that a 
borrower doesnt have to pay an ERC when they move home. Its usual for the mortgage 
offer to say that the transfer is subject to lending criteria and the borrowers circumstances.
I think Mr and Mrs W understood that Optimum would make  checks before allowing a 
transfer  as would be the case with any lender. They say they knew there was no 
guarantee that it would  agree to transfer the mortgage. But they thought there  would be a 
reasonable chance it would agree if they didnt want to borrow more  and their financial 
circumstances didnt  change. 
What Mr and Mrs W didnt know is that there was no possibility of Optimum agreeing to 
transfer the mortgage as this wasnt a service  it offered. 
I dont think its fair to say that it was for Mr and Mrs W to ask Optimum about  transfers  
before they took out the mortgage.  I think Mr and Mrs W were entitled to take the words in 
the mortgage offer at face value. I think they were  entitled to expect that if they made a 
transfer request  in the future Optimum would review  their request fairly.
Ref: DRN09699013what should happen now?
I accept that theres  never any guarantee that a lender will agree  to transfer or port a 
mortgage. But I dont  think its fair for Optimum to apply the ERC when it had given Mr and 
Mrs W misleading information about the possibility  of transferring the mortgage if they 
moved home.
I considered in my provisional decision what might have happened if Mr and Mrs W had 
been told at the outset  that Optimum didnt  allow  transfers. Mr and Mrs W say they wouldnt 
have taken out the mortgage with Optimum.  So they might have gone to another provider or 
taken out a second charge mortgage  with Optimum on its variable rate (which  doesnt have 
an ERC). I set out in my provisional decision what compensation Optimum should pay on the 
basis Mr and Mrs W would have taken out a mortgage with Optimum without an ERC.
We cant now know for certain what would have  happened if Mr and Mrs W had been told at 
the outset the mortgage wasnt transferable.  But for the purpose of considering  what 
compensation is fair and reasonable, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs W would have had 
other options. Their  broker would have  been able to look for mortgages  with Optimum or 
other providers  without  an ERC or which  were  portable.
I think Optimums mortgage offer was misleading.  Had they been given correct information, 
Mr and Mrs W would likely have  had other  options,  which might have avoided  them  incurring 
an ERC. So I think its fair and reasonable to require Optimum to refund the ERC of £2,551, 
with interest at 8% simple a year from the date the ERC was paid to the date of settlement;
As I said in my provisional decision,  I dont think its reasonable to require Optimum to refund 
interest or other fees. Mr and Mrs W agreed  to pay these and if theyd taken out a different 
mortgage, would still have had to pay interest  and fees. While Mrs W says Optimum wrongly 
applied additional  fees and interest,  I havent seen  evidence that this was the case. 
I think Optimum  should  pay compensation to Mr and Mrs W for their trouble and upset. They 
needed to move home for family reasons. They say being unable to port the mortgage 
meant they were unable  to buy the property  they wanted, which  better suited their family. 
While I dont know if Mr and Mrs W would  have been able to secure  their first choice 
property if theyd had a portable  mortgage  product, Ive no doubt  this added to their upset. 
And I think they must  have been  upset  and disappointed when they found that, despite the 
statement in the mortgage offer, there was no possibility of them  porting the mortgage and 
so would have  to pay the ERC. I think Optimum should pay £250 compensation to 
Mr and Mrs W for their upset. 
Ref: DRN09699014my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Optimum Credit  Ltd to:
refund  the ERC of £2,551 with interest at 8% simple a year from the date the ERC was 
paid to the date of settlement;  and
pay £250 compensation to Mr and Mrs W.
 If HM Revenue & Customs requires Optimum to take off tax from this interest,  it must give 
Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0969901