K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Future Finance Loan  Corporation Limited gave him an unaffordable  
loan and the terms of the loan were never fully explained to him.
background
In 2014 Mr K took a loan from Future Finance to fund his studies. 
He says their affordability checks were  insufficient  and their decision to lend was made by 
looking only at his previous employment  contract  and payslips. He says they didnt consider 
that his employment history  was for short periods. He says that the true cost of the loan  
including the origination  fee and associated interest   wasnt explained to him.
He wants Future  Finance  to remove the interest and charges and change their practice  in 
line with other lenders  and so he complained to them. They have  not upheld  his complaint. 
They respond by saying:
Where Mr K says the loan was unaffordable 
Mr K approached them for the loan which they conditionally approved. They say 
affordability was assessed by checking  his credit  history,  future  affordability, his 
credit score and average earnings data specific to the course and institution at which  
he studied. 
They say Mr K did not engage with them when he was in financial difficulty and it was 
only when they registered a default on Mr Ks credit  file that he resumed contact with 
them as he was seeking employment  and the default would have impacted his job 
search. Mr K has made successful payments since he has been in employment and 
their records  show  he has contacted them on more than one occasion  asking about  
clearing the loan in full, but this has not yet been done. 
Where Mr says that the origination fee and interest was not made clear to him.
Future Finance  say that the loan terms were made clear to Mr K and they explained 
the overall cost calculation to him on a telephone  call, telling him he should read over 
the loan documents, which he said he was doing. 
In a follow up, Future Finance, say that Mr K confirmed  he wanted to proceed with 
the loan and signed the loan agreement. A detailed breakdown of the monthly 
interest calculation  was sent to him by email, which, also advised Mr K of his right to 
a cooling off period  should he wished to withdraw  from the loan agreement. 
Mr K was issued with statements for his loan and he has continued to make 
payments, so he was aware of the cost of the loan.
Our investigator considered that the checks carried out by Future  Finance were  enough for 
them to rely on when making the decision to lend. They also felt Mr K had been  provided 
with enough information on the terms of the loan before he signed  it.
Ref: DRN07543572Mr K disagrees. He says he was not working at the time the loan was made. He says the 
loan was mis-sold and mis-represented to him, and the matter has come to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so, I do not uphold this 
complaint and I will explain why.
Future Finances  affordability assessment
Future Finance  say they approved the loan after carrying out their checks. Although Mr K 
says that they didnt  ask for anything  other  than his latest employment  contract  and payslips, 
he may not have been aware  that they had carried out their own checks. Future Finance  
have provided  me with details of the information they relied  on, and I think  it is fair to say that 
they took various relevant  factors into account.  
Its important to note the Financial Conduct Authority guidance in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), as applicable at the time of Future Finances approval of Mr Ks loan.
This said
CONC  5.3.1G
(4)(a) the firm should  take account  of actual current income or expenditure and 
reasonably expected future income  or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to 
do so) where  it is reasonably foreseeable that it will differ from actual current income 
or expenditure over the anticipated repayment  period  of the agreement;
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customer's income and expenditure,  on a statement of those  matters  made by the 
customer;
(c) its assessment should be based  on what  the firm knows at the time of the 
assessment
 and
CONC 5.3.1G
(5) An example  of where it may be reasonable to take into account expected future 
income  would  be, in the case of loans  to fund the provision of further or higher 
education, provided that an appropriate assessment required by this chapter is 
carried out and there  is an appropriate exercise of forbearance in respect of initial 
repayments, for example, deferring or limiting the obligation to repay until 
the customer's income has reached a specified  level. Any assumptions regarding 
future income should be reasonable and capable of substantiation in the individual  
case and the products  should be designed in a way to minimise the risks to 
the customer.
I am satisfied that Future Finance have shown they took reasonable steps and have acted in 
line with this guidance when assessing Mr Ks ability to meet  repayments  under the loan.
They have provided an explanation of the credit history report  they relied on when  making 
their decision  and looking at the status of Mr Ks other credit agreements  I can see that 
these were either settled  or up to date.  This was the information that Future Finance had at 
the time they made  the loan and so I dont think the loan was unaffordable at the time.
Ref: DRN07543573Mr K says he had only been  employed  for a short time and was unemployed at the time the 
loan was made. But Future  Finance  knew he was going to start a course of study from his 
loan application  and their decision to make  the loan was not based  on his earnings at the 
time. Rather,  its affordability assessment appears  to have taken into account his potential 
future earnings, as the regulatory  guidance at the time said it was entitled  to do.
Were the origination fee and interest made clear?
I am satisfied that Mr K received the loan documents. His signature appears on the loan 
agreement, so I dont agree that Mr K was not made  aware of the payment terms which I 
consider are sufficiently clearly set out. He also had time to withdraw from the loan and I 
havent seen anything to make me think that Future  Finance  put Mr K under any time 
pressure to take out the loan. Mr K could have withdrawn from the loan within the 14 days  
cooling off period.
The loan agreement  signed by Mr K contains  all the information about the cost of the loan 
which Mr K says he never received. I can see that it does  set out the payments,  the 
information regarding  the origination fee and the fact it is interest-bearing, and it refers to 
schedules with the drawdown and repayments to be made.
I have looked  at the information Future  Finance  relied on at the time the loan was made and 
I have to make a fair decision on whether  the loan was likely to have been affordable at that 
time. Mr K says that he is having difficulty refinancing the loan, and that he would like Future 
Finance to change  their practice in line with other  lenders, but I have no real reason to think 
Future Finance  have  acted unfairly  towards Mr K, such  that I might require it to take any 
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that Future Finance Loan  Corporation Limited 
carried out an appropriate affordability assessment when it provided the loan, and it made 
Mr K aware of the full cost of the loan including the originating fees and interest.  
Consequently, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Sejal Karia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0754357