K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  about Great Lakes Insurance SEs offer to settle her furniture warranty 
claim for accidental damage to her leather sofa and armchair.  
background
Miss B bought  a leather furniture suite from a well-known national retailer in 2016. At the 
time of purchase she also bought an extended  warranty from Great Lakes to cover her for 
accidental staining  and damage to the suite.  In October 2018 Mrs B contacted  Great Lakes 
to report that her sofa and armchair had been accidentally damaged by her children. There  
were ink markings and a juice spillage. 
Great Lakes sent a technician to Miss Bs house.  He was able to remove  the damage 
caused by the juice spillage but couldnt do anything about the ink marks. A further longer 
appointment was arranged  for the technician to attend to try and remove them. As he was 
unable to do so he reported to Great Lakes  that replacement parts were required for there to 
be an effective repair. 
Great Lakes authorised the claim  and wrote to Miss B to offer her a choice of settlement 
options which reflected  the cover provided in the warranty terms. It said it could arrange to 
replace the damaged parts (by ordering them  from the manufacturer)  or it could pay her 
£355 in cash to close the claim. It said to Miss B that there  could be a colour variation 
between the new parts and the existing  (undamaged) parts  of her sofa. 
Miss B didnt want to accept either  option.  She said the cash  offered was insufficient to 
replace the sofa and that she didnt want be left with a patchwork sofa. Miss B said to Great 
Lakes that she wanted the whole suite reupholstered. Miss B complained  to Great  Lakes. 
Great Lakes looked  into Miss Bs complaint  but didnt think  it had done  anything wrong. It 
said the settlement  options itd offered were in line with the policy terms. Unhappy with Great  
Lakes response,  Miss B complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Bs complaint  and recommended that it was upheld in part. 
He said he was satisfied  that Great Lakes had followed the terms and conditions  of the 
warranty but he didnt  think her claim had been  settled  fairly. He said there  was a strong 
possibility that the replacement parts would be visibly different from the rest of the suite. He 
said the manufacturing process may have changed  since Miss B bought the sofa in 2016 
which could also mean the new parts could differ in colour from the existing suite.  He said 
that as the replacement of the damaged parts was likely to leave Miss B with a mis-matched 
suite it should pay her compensation equivalent  to 50% of replacing the entire  suite. He said 
it wouldnt be fair to ask Great Lakes to replace the whole suite because  the policy  terms 
didnt allow for it. He said the compensation was in addition to Great  Lakes existing offer to 
replace the damaged parts or pay £355 in cash to Miss B. 
Both Great Lakes  and Miss B disagreed with our investigators findings. Great  Lakes said 
such a settlement was premature as it first needed  to be given the opportunity  to repair  the 
sofa and to ask it to do more at this stage  was unfair. It said if the parts arrived and didnt 
provide a sufficient  match  then it would  offer an alternative solution then. It said it couldnt be 
held responsible for changes in colour to the furniture since Miss B took delivery. 
Ref: DRN08514862Miss B replied  to say that the repair the technician  had attempted  to carry out had left the 
sofa in a worse  state which shed now been living with for months. 
Both Miss B and Great Lakes asked for the complaint to be referred  for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2019. I made the following findings: 
Although I appreciate that is will come as a disappointment to Miss B, I dont think her 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
Great Lakes has accepted her claim and offered her a settlement in line with the warranty 
terms. It isnt required  by those terms to replace or recover an entire suite  that has only been  
partially damaged.  
This service has a long established approach to these types of cases. When  parts of a suite  
are replaced   and the colour  match isnt within reasonable tolerances  we may require the 
insurer to offer to pay the consumer 50% of the cost of replacing  the entire suite  because 
theres been a loss of match.  We ask the insurer to pay 50% and not 100% because  it 
wouldnt be fair to ask it to pay to replace  undamaged items. But nor is it fair for consumers 
to be made  to live with a loss of match, so 50% is a half way house  compromise.  
Here, we dont yet know whether the replacement  parts will produce a loss of match that is 
outside of reasonable tolerances. Thats because Great Lakes  hasnt yet been given the 
opportunity to carry out the repair. As it says, if it carries out the repair and the match isnt 
sufficient then it would look to offer an alternative solution at that point. Indeed this service 
would expect it to do so. But it must be first permitted to try  in line with the warranty  terms 
 to carry out an effective  repair.  
This means  that I dont think Great Lakes has treated Miss B unfairly. It dealt with the claim 
promptly and offered Miss B a settlement that was in line with the policy terms. Miss B now 
has two choices. To either accept the cash offer Great Lakes made  which will close her 
claim altogether or to let Great Lakes order and fit the replacement parts so that it can be 
seen then if they are a tolerable match. Great Lakes knows  that if they arent then it must 
offer Miss B an alternative solution.  
Great Lakes hasnt commented on my provisional decision. Miss B sent in a copy of the 
warranty and asked  me to look at section 6. She also said that shed previously spoken to 
her claim handler and had been  told that even  if the parts were replaced  and they failed to 
match the rest of the sofa then Great Lakes wouldnt be able to do anything further about it. 
She said that she hadnt asked for the whole sofa to be recovered, only a few more sections 
of it. She thought  that re-covering a bit more of it wasnt too much for Great Lakes to do to 
ensure it had a happy customer.  
The complaint was passed  back to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN08514863Ive thought about what Miss B has said in response  to my provisional decision but its not 
persuaded me to change my mind. Whilst Id like thank Miss B for sending me a copy  of the 
warranty, there was already a copy on file which Id seen before reaching  my provisional  
decision. I note her reference  to section 6 but it doesnt make  me think that Great Lakes has 
treated her unfairly in first offering to repair her sofa.  Section 6 says, if a repair can be 
made, it must  be considered prior to a replacement being considered.over time the colour,  
shade and appearance of your product is likely to change in the event new covers  are 
required we will supply parts based on the original appearance of your product. Wherever 
possible we will try and limit any differences but our liability is to repair  the product based on 
the original specification.
It is very possible  that the claims  handler Miss B spoke to referred to this section  of the 
warranty when she told Miss B that even if the parts didnt match, Great  Lakes wouldnt be 
able to do anything  further about it. 
But as I said in my provisional decision, this service has a long standing approach to these 
types of cases.  When parts of a suite are replaced   and the colour  match isnt within 
reasonable tolerances  we may require the insurer to offer to pay the consumer 50% of the 
cost of replacing the entire suite because theres been a loss of match. That can be despite  
the warranty terms not providing for such an eventuality. But we are also clear that the 
warranty provider must  first be permitted to try to carry  out an effective  repair. 
So I remain  of the view that Great Lakes hasnt treated  Miss B unfairly so I cant reasonably 
require it to re-cover a few more  sections of the sofa. Its offered Miss B a settlement in line 
with the policy terms. Miss B now has two choices. To either accept the cash offer Great 
Lakes made  which will close her claim  altogether  or to let Great Lakes order and fit the 
replacement parts so that it can be seen then if they are a tolerable  match.  Great Lakes  
knows that if they arent then it must offer Miss B an alternative solution. If Miss B remains  
unhappy after that then she is able to make a further complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2019. 
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0851486