K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about Gefion Insurance A/Ss handling of his car insurance policy.
Reference to Gefion includes their agents.
In bringing this complaint, Mr B has been  represented by his father who has made 
comments on his behalf. But, for ease, Ive only referred to Mr B. My reference to Mr B 
includes comments made by his father.
background
Mr B took out car insurance  with Gefion in June  2018. In February 2019, he asked for his 
address to be changed and Gefion amended his policy making whats  known as a mid-term 
adjustment (MTA).
Because of the change of address, Gefion said the risk of insuring Mr B increased  and to 
reflect that they charged him an additional premium of just under £400. Mr B didnt think that 
was fair and complained. Gefion didnt uphold his complaint. As Mr B didnt think that was 
fair, he brought his complaint to our service.  One of our investigators looked  into it. He felt 
that Gefions actions were  reasonable. As Mr B didnt agree with our investigator,  the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 25 February 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Gefion said the original address Mr B gave as the risk address (where  the car would 
be kept)  was a post code starting with H. So, Gefion said they based the original 
premium on that address.  But Mr B said that wasnt  the case  and that he told Gefion 
the car would be kept at a different address, a post code starting with C. And when 
the MTA was made  Mr B gave his new address  where the car would be kept at a 
post code starting  with L. But Gefion recalculated the premium based on the address 
changing from the H address to the L address, which resulted on an increase in 
premium of almost £400.
I have looked  at the policy documentation provided  to me by Gefion. And on the 
document called  Statement of Insurance it says the car will be kept  at postcode 
starting with C. I therefore think what Mr B has said is correct  and Gefion are 
mistaken. This document  shows that Mr B told Gefion the car would be kept at 
address C but Gefion  calculated his original premium on the basis of the car being 
kept at address H. And Gefion  later recalculated the additional premium  on the basis 
of the change of address being from post code H to L, whereas it should have been a 
change of address  from post code C to L.
I wrote  to Gefion on 5, 15, 22, 27 January and 14 February 2020. I explained that it 
appeared that Gefion had calculated the original premium based on the wrong 
address (H) and also that they calculated the additional  premium by wrongly making 
the MTA from post code  H to L, whereas it should have been C to L. I asked for 
Gefion to provide  me with new calculations on the basis  of the correct addresses. I 
Ref: DRN06143092also asked Gefion to provide  me with recordings of two phone calls they had with Mr 
B when  he took out the policy.  Gefion  said that, among other  things, the address 
where the car would  be kept was discussed  as was the possibility of an additional 
premium if things changed. So, I think those calls are potentially  important. But, to 
date, Gefion havent responded to any of my emails and havent  provided any of the 
information I asked  for. In the circumstances, as I think all the calculations have been  
made on the basis of the wrong  post codes, I cant say Gefions calculations and 
actions were reasonable. I can only reach  a decision on the basis of the information 
available to me. I therefore intend  to uphold this complaint.
I intend to require Gefion to refund Mr B any of the additional premium he paid. The 
additional premium  was £373.03.  Gefion  said in one of their letters  that Mr B had 
paid £190.23 of it and the remaining  £190.23  was due by 28 March 2019. I dont 
know if Mr B paid that but Gefion should refund any amount  he did pay. I also intend 
to require Gefion  to pay simple interest on any refund at a rate of 8% a year from the 
date(s) Mr B paid the additional premium (or part of it) until the date of refund. Im 
aware that this matter  has been a source of distress  and inconvenience for Mr B. I 
therefore intend to require  Gefion  to pay Mr B £150  compensation to address that.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr B accepted  my provisional findings  
and he confirmed that he paid a total additional  premium of £380.46 in two £190.23  
instalments. But Gefion didnt make  any comments:
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Gefion Insurance A/S to:
Refund Mr B the £380.46 additional  premium  he paid. They should also pay simple 
interest on that amount at a rate of 8% a year from the date(s) Mr B paid the 
additional premium  until the date of refund.
Pay Mr B £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr B has accepted  my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If Gefion consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr B how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN0614309