K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P, who are represented by a third party, have complained to us about 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies they bought from Lloyds Bank  PLC 
(Lloyds),  trading as Cheltenham and Gloucester. They say the policies were mis-sold.
background
Mr and Mrs P bought the first policy in December 1985 at around the same time as they 
applied for a mortgage with Lloyds. It looks like they also took a new policy in or around 
April 1996 to go with further borrowing. 
Whilst their mortgage borrowing was joint for both sets of borrowing, on each occasion 
only Mr P was covered  by the by the PPI. The policies included cover  for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Mr and Mrs P say the policies werent explained to them. They  also say they didnt need 
them. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policies had been mis-sold. Because Mr and Mrs P 
disagree, their complaint  has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
 
Ive seen that Lloyds has offered to refund Mr and Mrs P some  of the undisclosed  
commission in relation to both these policies. From what Ive seen thats  already been  paid 
back to Mr and Mrs P. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
It looks like Mr and Mrs P bought each of the policies in a meeting with Lloyds and that 
Lloyds made  a recommendation that they should  buy them. Lloyds has confirmed that for 
each of the sales it made a recommendation that Mr and Mrs P buy the policies. That 
means it had responsibility for ensuring that the policies  were suitable for Mr and Mrs Ps 
situation. Also, the information it provided about  the policies needed to be clear enough 
for them to be able to make an informed choice about buying the cover.
The available sale paperwork is limited, which isnt unusual after so much time.  So in 
reaching my decision Ive relied on the paperwork and customer  information that is 
available, what Mr and Mrs P have told us plus what already know about how Lloyds PPI 
sales happened at the time. I think for each  sale its likely that Mr and Mrs P would have 
been asked to confirm they wanted to buy PPI when filling out the mortgage borrowing 
application forms.
But what  I have seen  is that the PPI was included on the 1985 mortgage offer. Also,  
having looked at what Lloyds sent us, Ive seen  correspondence sent by Lloyds to 
Ref: DRN09089812Mr and Mrs P in May 1996, informing them about changes to their PPI premiums  and 
explaining that Mr and Mrs Ps earlier PPI cover had been cancelled  with a new policy  put 
in place at the revised premium. I can see the insurer also wrote  to say theyd sent 
Mr and Mrs P the schedule of insurance and policy documents. 
In addition, for both sales its likely that Mr P would have to provide Lloyds with bank  
account details  so that the PPI premiums   which were separate to their mortgage 
payments  could  be taken. That also makes  me think that on each occasion they likely 
realised theyd made a decision about buying  the policy.
Taking all this into account, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs P decided to buy each of 
these policies to help protect  their mortgage  repayments. I think  they were also aware  
they didnt have to buy them.
Ive next looked at whether Mr and Mrs P were disadvantaged by any of the conditions  or 
limitations of the policies.  The information  Ive seen makes me think  that Mr P was eligible 
for the cover, in good health  and not affected by the main exclusions in the policy  terms. 
So I think Mr P wouldve been able to make a successful claim on these policies if hed 
needed to.
Each of the policies  paid out for up to twelve months  if Mr P made a successful claim.  Mr P 
has told us he was entitled to good benefits  with his job  although I doubt these would 
have been equivalent to the 12 months  at full pay provided by each of these policies. From 
what Ive seen, both of these PPI policies would have paid out alongside  and most likely  
for longer than Mr Ps employer benefits. So I think that Mr P had a use for the policies that 
they were suitable  for Mr and Mrs Ps situation. And its also important to remember that 
each policy  would have  paid out alongside  any other  resources that Mr and Mrs P might 
have been able to access at the time. 
From the available sale paperwork it looks as if Mr and Mrs P ought to have been  provided  
with details of the cost of each policy at around the time of each sale  being £8.65  per 
month for the 1985  policy  and £19.50 per month  for the 1996 policy. Ive no way of knowing 
that they received these details, or that they read them. But I havent seen anything to 
make me think that Mr and Mrs P might have had problems paying for the cover.
I can see its possible there  may have been some shortcomings in the way information 
was given to Mr and Mrs P about these polices. But, having looked at each sale carefully, 
and for much the same reasons I explained  above  why I think the policies were suitable,  I 
think Mr and Mrs P would still have decided to go ahead and buy them  if theyd been 
better advised and informed.
Overall, whilst Ive looked  at each of these sales carefully, Im not able to make a finding  
that these policies were  mis-sold. Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr and Mrs P about this, 
especially given the length of time its taken for their complaint to reach me.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about these two 
PPI policies being mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 September  2020.
Ref: DRN09089813Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0908981