K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a mortgage in 2003.  Mr and Mrs L say they were mis-sold the PPI.
Weve established  that a company called CIGNA  Europe Insurance Company SA-NV  is 
responsible for dealing  with this complaint. So, Ill just refer to CIGNA in this decision.  
background
This type of PPI required the payment to be made up front  in one single premium  at the 
beginning of the mortgage term. The PPI in question cost around  £7,119,  which was added  
to Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage. The premium was payable over the 20-year mortgage term, 
with interest.
The PPI policy covered Mr and Mrs L in the event of death,  unemployment  or being off work 
due to accident or sickness. Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint 
should be upheld.  CIGNA didnt  respond,  so weve assumed they disagreed. Ive been  
asked to make a decision on the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done this, Ive decided  to uphold 
this complaint.
CIGNA says this wasnt an advised sale. Having looked at the documentation we were sent 
by CIGNA, I accept thats probably right. But CIGNA still had a duty to ensure that the 
information provided during the sale was clear, fair and not misleading   so Mr and Mrs L 
could make an informed  choice about what they wanted to do. But I dont think  Mr and Mrs L 
were given clear information.
Two common features  throughout  the sale documents  CIGNA  sent to me are that its not 
made clear enough about either  what the PPI actually cost in total - and importantly, how the 
policy worked.
For example, like Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage, the PPI was subject to interest  over the whole 
20-year mortgage  term. This meant that with all the interest added,  the PPI would actually 
end up costing them significantly more money than the amount quoted  on the agreement 
they signed. Nor, in my view,  is there  enough clear information which  highlights  how this 
policy works. 
This issue is very important because  I dont think Mr and Mrs L would have realised that the 
PPI protection  only lasted  for 4 years, but their mortgage ran for 20 years.  So, I dont think  
theyd have known  they would still be paying for the PPI over the full 20-year term, some 21 
years longer  than the PPI policy actually ran for.
So, if they wanted to remain covered by PPI for the whole term of their mortgage, Mr and 
Mrs L would  have had to take out another PPI policy or similar, after just 4 years, to cover  
Ref: DRN07933922the remaining  term of the mortgage. I dont think it wouldve been clear they would have to 
pay for PPI cover  all over again after 4 years, whist still paying for the cover which had 
expired.
putting things right
Mr and Mrs L borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their mortgage was bigger than it should 
have been, and they paid more than they should have each month.  So, Mr and Mrs L needs  
to get back the extra  they paid. So, CIGNA should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs L the difference between what  they paid each month on 
the mortgage and what they would have paid each  month  without PPI.
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs L the difference between what  it cost to pay off their 
mortgage and what it would have cost to pay off the mortgage without PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when Mr and Mrs L paid it until they get it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr and Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  CIGNA can take off what  
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires CIGNA to take off tax from this interest. CIGNA must 
give Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I uphold this complaint. CIGNA Europe Insurance  
Company SA-NV should put things right by doing  what Ive said above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 January  2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0793392