K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about issues hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd (BMF).
background
In March 2018 Mr A was supplied with a used  car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with BMF. At the point of supply the car had covered  approximately  77,500 miles.
Within a short time Mr A experienced  issues with the engine cutting out. The supplying  
dealer arranged an independent  inspection of the car to determine whether the fault was 
present at the point of supply.
The independent inspection was carried out in June 2018. It concluded that the Diesel 
Particulate Filter (DPF) was the likely cause of the issue. The report said the DPF was a 
serviceable part of the car and that there  was no evidence to suggest that it was blocked  at 
the point of supply.
Mr A had the DPF cleaned in September 2018. However, the engine  continued to cut out 
and Mr A complained  to BMF.
BMF said that because the issue had been reported to it outside  the first 6 months  it was up 
to Mr A to show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
In October  2018, Mr A took the car to a third party garage who carried out a diagnostic which 
showed a number of fault codes. Mr A sent this to BMF but it said the fault codes didnt 
prove that the faults were  present at the point of supply.
Mr A wasnt  happy with BMFs response so he complained  t this service. The car has 
remained in storage at the third party garage  since October 2018.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He didnt think  it was reasonable for an engine  on a 
car of this age and mileage to keep cutting  out. He said that Mr A had arranged for the 
repairs which were recommended in the independent inspection but this hadnt  resolved the 
issue. The investigator  thought that BMF should  have  arranged for a further  inspection  at 
this stage. The investigator felt that, based  on the fault codes, it was likely that there was a 
fault with the fuse box at the point of supply. He recommended that Mr A should be allowed 
to reject the car.
BMF didnt agree. It said it wanted  to arrange a further independent inspection because  the 
first independent inspection didnt identify  the issue with the car correctly  and only found an 
issue with the DPF.  It said the faults  diagnosed  by the third party garage were new issues  
and the fault codes didnt  show  whether  the fault was present or developing at the point of 
sale.
A further  independent inspection was carried out in April 2019. The engineer was unable to 
start the car because the battery was flat. He said the engine  oil level was high and that this 
was usually associated  with a blocked  DPF. He said there  was no evidence  to suggest the 
ECU had been  damaged and suggested  that the fault codes could be interpreted  in several 
ways. The report concluded that the DPF was blocked and recommended  that it was 
cleaned and regenerated.
Ref: DRN03500042BMF considered the report  and said it remained of the view that because it was 
recommended to clean  the DPF, this was a maintenance issue  for which it wasnt liable. It 
said that even  though  the DPF had been  cleaned in September 2018, it could have become 
blocked again in the 8 month period  leading  up to the inspection in April 2019.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMF has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres  an implied 
term that its of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would regard as 
acceptable, taking  into account factors such as the price paid, fitness for purpose,  
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. I would expect a 
used car, such as that supplied to Mr A, to have a degree of wear  and tear commensurate 
with its age and mileage.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first 6 months,  its 
generally up to the business to put things right, unless  it can show that the fault wasnt 
present or developing at the point  of supply.
Mr A and BMF disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In order  to 
reach a decision  I need  to look at the available evidence and determine, on the balance of 
probabilities, whether  the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
An expert engineers  report  can help with deciding whether a car is of satisfactory  quality. In 
this case, an independent inspection  carried out in June 2018  concluded  that the DPF was 
blocked. The engineer said this was a maintenance issue.
Mr A had the DPF cleaned in September 2018. The engine continued to cut out so Mr A took 
the car to a third party garage who diagnosed a fuel rail pressure sensor fault and the ECU 
overheating. It advised Mr A that the car needed  a new fuse box.
A second independent inspection carried out in April 2019  concluded  that the DPF was 
blocked.
Ive considered both of the independent  reports as well as the fault journal  produced by the 
third party garage.  I dont  think  the first independent inspection diagnosed  the issue 
correctly. I say this because when Mr A had the DPF cleaned as the report  recommended, it 
didnt resolve the issue. Based on what Ive seen  I think there  was some other reason for the 
engine cutting out. Mr A experienced issues with the engine  cutting out within the first 3 
weeks so its reasonable  to assume that the issue was present at the point of supply. I dont  
think a reasonable  person would expect  the engine to cut out within such a short  time of the 
point of supply,  even with a used  car. On the balance of probability, there was a fault at the 
point of supply  which caused the engine to cut out.
The fault codes  in the journal provided  by the thirds party  garage  show  that there were 
issues with the car which generated  fault codes at the point where the car had covered  
65,555 km (or approximately 40,700 miles). Mr A acquired the car with 77,500  miles,  so its 
fair to assume that the car had some  issues prior to the point of supply which generated fault 
codes. If these issues had been  resolved prior to the point of supply I would expect the fault 
Ref: DRN03500043codes to have  been cleared. So I think the issues were ongoing and present at the point of 
supply.
At the time when the third party garage carried out the diagnostic, the car had covered 
approximately 127,000 km (or approximately 78,900 miles). This shows  that Mr A hadnt  
managed to cover very much mileage  at all since the point of supply. This is consistent with 
Mr As testimony about the engine cutting out. Im also persuaded that it would  have been  
possible for Mr A to cover a distance  of approximately 1,400 miles in a car with an 
intermittent fault which  was present at the point of supply.
Ive considered the second independent  report but Im unable to attach much  weight to it, 
because the car wasnt started and as such,  wasnt properly inspected. I can see that the 
engineer identified an issue with the DPF based  on a visual inspection. However, Im 
satisfied that because the DPF was cleaned in September  2018,  its very unlikely that this 
would be the cause of the engine cutting out again  in October 2018. Ive noted BMFs 
comments that the DPF could easily have become blocked again since September  2018 but 
I dont think this is likely at all, because the car was only driven for a month before it went  to 
the third party  garage, where it has remained out of use ever since.
On balance, the second independent report isnt helpful. The engineer comments  that the 
fault codes can be interpreted in several ways, but doesnt  suggest any alternative  
interpretation or explain why he thinks the third party garage are wrong  in its diagnosis of the 
fault with the ECU.
Taking all of the information into account, Im satisfied that the car had a fault at the point of 
supply which  caused the engine to cut out. The car isnt of satisfactory  quality and because  
BMF refused  to carry out repairs when the issue was identified, Im of the view that Mr A 
should be allowed  to reject the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Blue Motor Finance Ltd must:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr A.
Reimburse Mr A for any storage charges hes incurred
Refund any deposit paid by Mr A together with simple interest of 8% from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund Mr A all of his monthly  payments except for the first 3 months
Pay compensation of £250 for distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0350004