K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  is about  their mortgage endowment policy  with Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited.  Mr and Mrs G have said they were misled at the time of the sale of the 
policy. They  believed the life cover and critical illness  cover  were separate add-ons  to the 
policy. As such, if a claim was made  under one of those areas of cover, the other would 
remain in place until claimed on and the investment  part of the policy  wouldnt be affected by 
any such claims.
In 2008 they made a claim under the critical illness benefit and now know  the policy  ceased 
at that time. However, Aviva continued to send them annual statements and confirmed in a 
telephone conversation the life cover  remained  in place  as did a fund value, despite 
premiums no longer being collected.  Mr and Mrs G have said they have and will continue  to 
suffer losses  because of this mistake.
background
In 1999 Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage endowment  policy for £100,000. It acted as the 
repayment vehicle  for their mortgage and provided life and critical illness cover for them 
both. 
The policy document produced in 1999 and sent to Mr and Mrs G stated that if either of the 
protection benefits was claimed on, the policy would  cease. 
Just under ten years later, Mr and Mrs G made  a claim under the critical illness benefit. The 
full sum assured  of £100,000 was paid out to them and the policy  ended. However, it seems 
a system problem meant that the policy records didnt  update  properly, and annual 
statements continued to be sent to Mr and Mrs G showing the policy  having  a value. 
However, the monthly premiums of £315.56  had stopped being collected  when the claim 
was paid out.
On 14 December October 2009  Aviva issued an annual statement for the policy  in error. This 
showed the policy had a unit value  of just over £25,000.
Later in December 2009 Mr G telephoned Aviva. The file note detailed that Mr G had called 
to check whether Aviva was taking £315 out of the policy each month. It was recorded at the 
time he was told that Aviva wasnt deducting that amount, but rather  £88 which  was the cost 
of the life cover and administration fee. 
The annual statement Mr and Mrs G were sent in October 2009  detailed a value for the 
policy and that there  was £100,000 of life cover attached, but also detailed  a premium 
payable of £315.56 a month.  Statements were  issued annually  up to and including  2016.
In 2017 Aviva became aware of the problem with the policy  and manually altered its records  
to show the policy as terminated. Whilst this stopped  the annual statements being issued, 
Aviva didnt contact Mr and Mrs G to make them aware of the error.
In May 2018  Mr G telephoned  Aviva and asked about accessing the policy value as he was 
moving home. He was told the policy didnt have  a value  he understandably complained.
Aviva admitted it had made a mistake  in relation to the administration  of the policy. There  
had been a system  problem which had continued to issue  annual statements for the policy,  
Ref: DRN07004172even though it had no value and no premiums were being collected. Aviva  declined to make 
any further payment  from the policy.  However,  it offered  Mr and Mrs G £750  compensation 
and apologised  for its mistake.
In relation to the complaint about being misled at the time of the sale, Aviva  didnt consider 
that complaint.  It said Mr and Mrs G had previously  raised a complaint about  the sale of the 
policy and it thought the new complaint was simply  a repeat of the earlier one. Aviva hadnt 
upheld that complaint and this service had agreed with its conclusions.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept Avivas  offer and referred their complaint to us. They  were 
concerned as they hadnt had any life cover for the last ten years and, if Mrs Gs had not 
recovered from her medical  situation,  this could have been a problem. In addition, Mr G said 
that in 2015 he was coming to the end of a period  of unemployment following redundancy. 
He had been covered during his unemployment by an income  protection  policy, which had 
paid out £18,000 a year. He has said his new employment was at a lower salary  and instead 
of renewing the income protection policy, he decided to self-insure  and rely on the value of 
the endowment  policy were he ever to be made redundant  again. 
Mr and Mrs G also explained to us that in March  2018 Mr G was informed he would be made  
redundant. They decided at that time to rent out their existing property, buy a smaller one to 
live in and Mr G would semi-retire. They had committed to buying  a property and when Mr G 
contacted Aviva to surrender the endowment policy;  that money was to fund the house 
purchase. When told the policy  had no value, money  had to be withdrawn from a pension 
drawdown policy Mr G had recently set up. Mr and Mrs G believe they will have ongoing  
losses due to lower payments from that pension in the future. 
As for the complaint about the sale of the policy, Mr and Mrs G said it wasnt the same  
complaint theyd made at an earlier date. That complaint had been  about the risks 
associated with the policy. They also mentioned that they still didnt agree with the outcome 
of the earlier  complaint.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and partially upheld it. She was 
persuaded that but for the incorrect information Aviva had provided  to Mr and Mrs G over the 
years, they would have kept an income protection policy in place for Mr G. She concluded 
any policy would have  reflected the decrease in Mr Gs income (of 40%).  As such she 
believed he should  receive a pro-rata benefit  from a smaller policy  less pro-rata  premiums  
that would  have been paid since his return to work in 2014. This amounted to £8,671.68.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept the investigators conclusion that they would have reduced the 
benefit level of the policy. They confirmed the benefit level was picked based on their key 
outgoings, it was still only around half of Mr Gs net income and so they wouldnt have 
reduced the benefit level. Mr and Mrs G calculated the amount payable  on the same basis 
as the investigators  calculation,  but with the full policy benefit - £15,605.64.  They were not 
persuaded it was appropriate to deduct the premiums from the benefit as these would have 
been paid from income,  but were willing to accept  this calculation  method if Aviva was.
Mr and Mrs G also explained that whilst  they had commented they thought the premium  for 
the existing policy was unaffordable as it had increased from £70 to £110 per month, they 
would have arranged  a new policy with a more competitive provider. 
Avivas initial  response to the investigators  thoughts about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances 
was to disagree. It felt it more likely  that the income protection  policy premium was stopped  
Ref: DRN07004173because of Mr Gs drop in income and not because  of the incorrect  mortgage endowment 
information given.  Indeed,  it noted the policy in question had been taken out after 
Mr and Mrs G started to receive incorrect information about the endowment  policy, which  it 
thought undermined their position. 
Following the investigator detailing  what she proposed should be paid as redress, Aviva  
asked some further questions about  Mr Gs redundancy situation in 2018. It said it was not 
rejecting her assessment but rather asking further  questions to clarify if the proposals were  
fair. The further information  was provided  to Aviva,  but despite chasing,  it didnt  provide  any 
further comment.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for consideration.
I requested some further information about both the income protection policy  Mr G cancelled  
and another income protection policy Aviva had mentioned earlier  in the complaint.  Aviva 
eventually confirmed that the policy with it was one that provided protection in the event of 
incapacity. It confirmed  the policy was cancelled  in July 2018 due to Mr Gs retirement. 
When it did so, it also made further  comment about the merits of the complaint. It said 
Mr and Mrs G applied for a policy with a total benefit  of £100,000 and were aware that was 
the amount paid in settlement of the claim.  It pointed out they signed  the discharge  form 
confirming their understanding  that Aviva had no further liability. It pointed  out that no further 
premiums were paid after the claim was made.  
Aviva accepted that it then issued a number  of statements confirming a fund value of just 
over £25,000, but it doesnt feel that it should  be liable to pay a proportion  of that amount. It 
believes it caused a loss of expectation and for this it has offered £750. 
The provider of the income  protection  policy that covered Mr G for unemployment confirmed 
the policy was started  in April 2010 and was cancelled at his instruction on 18 August 2014. 
A claim  for unemployment had been  accepted on 4 July 2013 and paid for a little over nine 
months. 
On 13 December 2019 I issued a provisional  decision. I set out my conclusions and reasons 
for reaching  them. Below is an excerpt of that document.
Mr and Mrs G have said they believe the policy was mis-sold because  they believed  the 
protection benefits were separate add-ons  to the policy  and if a claim was made under one 
of them,  the other would remain in place, as would the investment element of the policy.  It 
does appear that this is a different complaint from that made earlier.  However,  I dont think  
the evidence suggests that is how Mr and Mrs G understood the policy to work.  If they had, I 
think they would have questioned this when they received the policy document. In addition,  
they didnt question the lack of premiums being collected following the claim being paid out 
in early 2009, which I would have expected if they thought the policy remained in place. 
Furthermore, I wouldnt have expected  them  to question  the annual  statement they got at the 
end of 2009.
That said,  I would also point out that to uphold this aspect of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint 
would be disadvantageous to them. I say this as if such a complaint were  to be upheld, the 
remedy would be to place  them  in the position as though the policy  had never existed, which  
would mean  that the £100,000 claim proceeds  wouldnt  have been  paid out in 2009. In light 
of this, I dont propose to comment  further  on this issue.
Ref: DRN07004174Aviva acknowledged  the error that meant incorrect information was sent to Mr and Mrs G 
following the claim in 2009. I dont intend  to consider that further.  However, Aviva has 
recently said that Mr and Mrs G should  reasonably have been aware this was an error 
because the claim had been  paid out and the premiums had stopped  being  collected. In 
addition, the discharge form they signed  when they claim was paid out confirmed that Aviva 
would have no further liability in relation to the policy.  I would agree that this was the case  
and clearly Mr and Mrs G were confused  when  they received the annual statement showing 
the policy was still providing protection benefits  and still had a value because they called 
Aviva to find out what was going on.  
Aviva then compounded  its system error. Its representative responded to Mr G with answers  
as though the policy had been made paid-up   that it had a value, no premiums would be 
collected and the cost of the protection benefits would be maintained by deductions from the 
policy value.  Mr and Mrs G appear to be laypeople  and given the reassurance Aviva  gave 
them when they queried the first annual statement, I dont think it was unreasonable for them  
to think the policy still existed and had a value. 
I must now consider whether and if so, to what extent, Mr and Mrs G relied on that incorrect 
information from Aviva when making decisions  about  their financial arrangements. If they 
did, I need to determine  whether they have suffered a detriment  in doing so. 
Having received confirmation  of details about Mr Gs income protection  policy, I note the 
policy was taken out after Mr G was told the endowment policy  had a significant value. It 
does not, therefore,  appear that in 2010  Mr G was happy to rely on the Aviva policy  value in 
the event he was made unemployed. So I have to consider the events of 2014 in that light. 
Mr G went back  into employment in the spring of 2014, but with a greatly reduced income. 
He maintained the policy for a short period and then cancelled  it. I accept  it is possible  that 
believing he had the Aviva policy value in the background was a factor in that decision, but I 
am not persuaded it was a significant factor. Mr Gs income had dropped  by 40%.  It would 
be normal in those circumstances for consumers to look at their arrangements  and see 
where they could  reduce their outgoings.  Non-essentials or nice-to-have  arrangements will 
be the things that are sacrificed in those  circumstances and the income  protection  policy  had 
quite a high premium. I think it likely Mr G would have  cancelled the income  protection  policy  
whether there was a value to the Aviva policy or not. 
Mr G has said he would  have sourced a policy elsewhere to give him the same benefits,  but 
for less money. Given his then recent period  of unemployment, age and the benefits  he 
wanted, I dont  think it likely he would  have obtained an alternative  policy  at a notably lower 
premium. As such, I am not persuaded that but for Avivas error Mr G would have had an 
income protection policy, that would pay out in the event  of unemployment, in place when he 
was made  redundant in 2018.
Mr and Mrs G have also said they relied  on the policy  value when they made their decisions 
in 2018 when Mr G was told he was being made  redundant again. They had planned  to use 
the money from the policy to partially fund a property purchase. As there  was no value to the 
policy; that part of the purchase was funded from drawings from a pension  arrangement.  
I need to consider what Mr and Mrs G might  have decided to do in 2018 if they had known 
they wouldnt have  the £25,000 from the Aviva  policy.  The first of these considerations is 
whether Mr G would  have made the decision to retire if hed know  that around £25,000 
Ref: DRN07004175wouldnt be available to him. It is possible, but I think it unlikely that money  would have made 
the difference as to whether he would have retired or sought further employment. 
So in the circumstance where  Mr G would still have  chosen to retire,  I have to ask whether 
the lack of the Aviva policy value would have made any material difference to 
Mr and Mrs Gs choices.  The only possibility I think likely is that they may have chosen a 
different property costing  less money. However,  I note that Mr and Mrs G asked for the 
surrender proceeds  in May 2018, over two months  before they completed  on their purchase.  
So it seems  unlikely they would have had to go through  with the purchase of the property 
having found out the money  they were expecting  wasnt available. In the circumstances 
where a consumer could mitigate their loss, in this case by withdrawing from the sale,  and 
chose not to, it wouldnt be appropriate  for this service to ask the financial business to 
compensate them from any resulting loss.
Aviva has offered Mr and Mrs G £750  for the inconvenience  and any upset its mistake 
caused them. Whilst I know  this will disappoint  Mr and Mrs G, I think  that offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Aviva confirmed it had received my provisional  decision and that it had nothing further to 
add.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept my conclusions and asked that I consider further  explanation  
from them about their lives and circumstances. They said that when they signed  the release  
form in 2009 they believed  only the critical illness cover had ended and the life cover  
remained. They thought paying  for the life cover was the reason  the fund value of the policy 
on the annual  statements  didnt increase. 
They explained they had always arranged insurance to cover all reasonable risks. They  
reiterated their explanation  of how they had come  decide to self-insure  in 2014 and cancel 
the income protection policy. They refuted Avivas assertion  that taking the redundancy 
policy after 2009  undermines  their position.  They pointed out that even when Aviva 
discovered the issue, it didnt contact  them  to explain the error and give them  the opportunity  
to mitigate the loss of the redundancy  protection policy. They put forward that they would 
have taken out both redundancy and life cover policies at that time. Mr and Mrs G went  on to 
reiterate that all of their decisions in 2018 were based on the availability of the Aviva fund 
value. 
Mr and Mrs G commented  that Aviva should  be held to a higher level of competence  that 
laypeople such as them. They put forward that, in light of the repeated  errors  Aviva has 
admitted to, and their attitude toward  risks, the investigators proposal  should be seen as an 
acceptable solution. They believe the impact  of the cost of that redress  on an organisation of 
the size and resources of Aviva would be insignificant in comparison to the effect Avivas 
mistake has had on them with losses of around  £25,000. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  Mr and Mrs Gs recent 
comments and explanations,  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. I know that this will disappoint  Mr and Mrs G, but their additional comments 
havent changed my conclusions.
Ref: DRN07004176I accept that Mr and Mrs G may well have wanted to cover themselves for risks where 
practical and affordable.  However, having again  considered the circumstances at the time 
the income protection policy was cancelled,  I remain persuaded the cancellation of the 
income protection policy would always have happened,  whether Aviva had its mistake or not. 
I say this as the policy had a substantial monthly  premium and Mr and Mrs Gs income had 
reduced very significantly. I am also not persuaded that an alternative  policy,  providing the 
same benefits, would have been  able to be sourced at a notably lower  premium in 2014, 
especially in light of the fact that Mr G had only recently returned to work  after being made 
redundant.
I dont doubt that the availability of the Aviva  fund value was factored into Mr and Mrs Gs 
financial decisions in 2018.  However,  I dont think the lack of those funds would have made 
a material difference  to their decisions.  Had that been the case,  Mr and Mrs G still had the 
option when they found out about Avivas mistake to pull out of the house purchase and 
rethink their plans. They chose to move ahead as originally planned.
I remain satisfied that the offer Aviva  made  of £750 for any distress or inconvenience  its 
mistake caused Mr and Mrs G is appropriate  in the circumstances,  but I wont  be asking it to 
increase pay anything further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to accept or reject  my decision 
before 16 February  2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0700417