K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC has reported information about him to CIFAS,
the UKs  fraud  alert service, and that the bank closed his account without explanation. He 
thinks this is unfair. 
background
Mr I held an account with Barclays. On 12 August 2015, his account was credited with
£2,950 through a bank  transfer. Immediately afterwards the money  was withdrawn; most of it 
at a Barclays branch  and some at a cash machine. 
Shortly afterwards, the payment  into the account  was identified  as fraudulent   the holder
of the account  from which  it was made  hadnt authorised it. Following a review,
Barclays decided to close Mr Is account  and wrote to tell him.
Barclays says it took this decision based  on a report from the other bank that the payment
to Mr Is account had been  made fraudulently, and the fact that the money was withdrawn
from his account  using his card and PIN. It said there  was no other explanation for how this  
could have happened given Mr I hadnt lost his card or unwittingly shared his PIN. 
Barclays closed the account and placed  a CIFAS marker against  Mr Is name. Mr I
complained, saying he knew nothing about the payment into his account or the withdrawals 
from it  he didnt think Barclays had treated  him fairly. He also highlighted that some of the 
contact information  on the CIFAS report was wrong, such  as the mobile  telephone  number 
and email address.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but thought that Barclays  had acted fairly.
Mr I didnt agree and he asked that an ombudsman review his case. He told us about  the
difficulties he had had in getting credit  on favourable  terms. He said that while  he hadnt 
used his Barclays account for some time, he had his debit card with him and that no one 
could have known  his PIN. He us also told us that he was in Turkey  in the days  leading  up to 
the fraudulent  deposit.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But having  done so, I have come to the
same conclusions as the adjudicator and for broadly the same  reasons. I realise  Mr I will be
disappointed by this so I will explain why.
Payments
The money paid into the account  didnt belong to Mr I. The transfer wasnt authorised  by the 
account holder  and their own bank will have  investigated that before reaching that 
conclusion. They were  the proceeds  of fraudulent activity.
Mr I says he knew nothing about  the payment made to his account or the subsequent
withdrawals.
The funds were withdrawn immediately after they were deposited. So Ive reviewed the
Ref: DRN09549572available evidence to see how that could have happened. In order  to make the withdrawals  
and other  payments, Im satisfied that a combination of Mr Is genuine card and PIN would 
have been required. I say this because in addition to the disputed  counter withdrawal, there  
was a cash machine  withdrawal and two card payments on 10 and 12 August, which Mr I 
says he knows nothing  about. The cash machine withdrawal and card payments to the 
retailer would have  certainly required Mr Is PIN. So Ive gone on to consider whether its 
likely Mr Is card and PIN could have been acquired  by someone acting without his 
knowledge or consent.
The adjudicator asked Mr I where  his card was at the time of the disputed withdrawals. Mr I 
said that while he hadnt been using  the account,  his card was in his possession - hes been  
quite clear and consistent  about this. 
Ive thought about whether Mr I might be mistaken  and someone  could  have taken his card 
and replaced it without him knowing.  But I dont think this is what  happened  here.  I say this 
because theres no plausible explanation as to how that person then also got hold of his PIN.  
Mr I says he never kept a written record of the PIN or disclosed it to anyone. 
Theres also doesnt appear to have been an opportunity for someone  to have learned Mr Is 
PIN through  watching him  genuinely use it  with his card. The banks records  show the 
account was opened in July 2015  and the first transaction  was made  from it on 10 August 
which was the card payment for £5.68.  Mr I says he wasnt using the account, so I dont see 
how anyone could have  seen the PIN being used.       
Mr I says he knew nothing about  the fraudulent payment into his account on 12 August. 
Barclays has provided records showing the account was accessed through Mr Is online 
banking facility before,  during and after the receipt of the payment and the withdrawals.  
The records  show a number of logons  to the account between 10 and 13 August, including  
four times on 12 August  (when the money went into the account and was withdrawn). 
The online activity demonstrates  a level of awareness that money was due to come in. If, as 
Mr I says, he wasnt using the account, knew nothing about the payments and only had a 
few pounds in the account from the time it was opened, the logical conclusion is that 
whoever was accessing his online banking facility was doing  so in connection with the 
fraudulent payment.
Even if I accept that Mr Is card and PIN were  compromised in some way, he hasnt 
suggested he lost his online banking details too. Im not satisfied Mr Is told Barclays or us 
everything he knows about what was going  on. Bearing this in mind,  it would be 
unreasonable for me to conclude that whoever logged into the account did so without Mr I 
being in some way involved   either to a greater or lesser extent.
It is, of course, possible that Mr I allowed a third party to use his account card and PIN, and 
thats how the money was withdrawn. Based on the evidence available to me, I think thats 
most likely what  did happen. I realise thats  a difficult message  for Mr I to receive.   And 
noting what Mr I has said about  some of his contact information being incorrect that doesnt  
change my conclusions  about how the transactions were carried  out.
Account closure
Ive thought about whether Barclays treated Mr I unfairly in closing his account. But I dont
think it did. The terms and conditions allowed Barclays to end its relationship  in the
Ref: DRN09549573circumstances at play here. 
CIFAS marker
Barclays applied the CIFAS marker because it said it believed Mr I had misused the
account facility.  Ive looked  at whether it was fair for it to do that. CIFAS guidance says the
business must have  carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set
by CIFAS. This essentially says that Barclays needs  to have enough information to make  a 
formal report to the police. And that any filing should  be for cases where there  are
reasonable grounds to believe fraud  or financial crime  has been committed, rather than mere
suspicion.
Having reviewed Mr Is account  of events and the evidence Barclays has provided I think
there would have been grounds to report the events here to the police to investigate,  and
that Barclays was therefore justified in placing a CIFAS marker against Mr Is name.
I appreciate this will be a great  disappointment  to Mr I as the marker might be causing him
difficulty now and in the future. But given what Ive said above, I dont think Barclays has
treated him unfairly in respect of closure of the account and recording the CIFAS marker. So
I wont be asking it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything  further to 
resolve Mr Is complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Sarita Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0954957