K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained about the settlement  offered by U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  for a 
damaged carpet under  his home insurance  policy. 
background
Mr O made  a claim for a damaged carpet following an escape of water at his home.  The 
carpet was beyond economical  repair  and UKI agreed to settle the claim according  to the 
policy terms. UKIs suppliers said the cost to replace the carpet was £1065.06.
Mr O says UKI initially offered to supply and fit the carpet, which he was happy with. 
However, UKI said it was unable to find a carpet fitter in the area, so offered  Mr O the 
following two options: a cash settlement of £544.65; or a voucher for £1065.06 (once  Mr O 
pays an excess of £350 in cash.)  
Mr O complained to UKI because he believes the cash settlement offer is too low for him to 
replace his carpet. He is also unhappy to pay UKI £350 in cash  before it provides the 
voucher. Mr O asked it to deduct the excess from the voucher, leaving him with a voucher 
for £715.06. 
UKI says the cash settlement is in line with the policy  terms, as it only needs  to pay what it 
would cost it to replace  the carpet, and not what it would cost Mr O.  It says the cash offer 
takes into consideration its supplier discounts  and the excess deduction. 
UKI also says that the excess is payable under the policy terms and it cant deduct the 
excess from the voucher  because it wouldnt  receive  the full value  of the excess  from its 
suppliers.  
Mr O remained  unhappy and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that UKIs 
offer was reasonable and in line with the terms of the policy.  Mr O disagreed and asked  me 
to issue a decision. 
Mr O has raised  further concerns about the total cost of replacing the carpet. He says the 
retail value to replace  the carpet is higher than £1065.06. UKI has maintained that the policy 
allows it to pay what it would cost it to replace the carpet, and its supplier can replace the 
carpet for £1065.06. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case,  I have considered whether 
the valuation of replacing the carpet was reasonable and, if so, did UKI act in line with the 
policy terms and conditions.
Mr O has argued  that UKIs  total claim value of £1065.06 is too low. Mr O has provided a 
receipt for a carpet he bought in 2008  and a recent quote from a carpet retailer. I think the 
recent quote is most relevant  in this case and I will use this as a comparison. 
The quote  shows a higher  cost for a similar carpet, but the area quoted is different from the 
measurements taken by UKIs suppliers.  Both parties seem to accept the measurements  
taken by UKIs suppliers, so I have reviewed  the retailers website to compare costs. Using 
Ref: DRN03370042UKIs measurements, the cost was more comparable with UKIs offer, so I dont think UKIs 
total claim value is unreasonable and I wont be asking it to increase this.  
The policy terms relating  to how UKI settle claims are:
G If you claim  How we settle claims
For any item of contents that is lost or damaged we will choose  whether to:
Replace or repair the item or part
Pay the cost of replacing  or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would have 
cost us to replace  of repair using our own suppliers, or 
Make  a cash settlement
We wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to replace or repair using our own 
suppliers...
Im satisfied that its for UKI to decide  whether it settles Mr Os claim by replacing the carpet, 
by paying for the replacement of the carpet  or by making a cash  settlement. Whilst the terms 
dont specifically mention the use of vouchers, UKI is effectively paying for the replacement 
of the carpet by choosing to offer a voucher. Whilst I appreciate that its Mr Os preference to 
have UKI supply and fit the carpet,  I think  UKI has acted reasonably and in line with its terms 
by choosing to offer a voucher or a cash settlement.   
Its also clear  from the terms that UKI only needs  to pay Mr O up to the amount it would cost 
it to replace the carpet.  UKIs supplier said it would cost £1065.06 to replace the carpet, but 
it would  only cost UKI £894.65  with a discount.  The policy also requires Mr O to pay an 
excess and its generally accepted that this forms the first part a claim. 
The policy says:
Your excess
You will have to pay any excess  shown  in your schedule. This includes  the specific escape 
of water excess 
If we have asked  one of our suppliers to deal with all or part of the claim, we may ask 
them to collect the excess from you.
Im satisfied both the cash settlement offer and the voucher settlement offer are in line with 
the terms Mr O agreed to when he bought the policy. I appreciate that Mr O may not wish to 
pay £350 in cash. However,  Im satisfied that the policy  allows UKI to ask its supplier to 
collect the excess from Mr O.  
Mr O asked UKI to deduct £350  from the voucher and offer. However, UKI has told me that 
its supplier produces the voucher and its systems cannot produce a voucher for less than 
the cost of the total claim, in this case £1065.06. Furthermore, a reduction in the value of the 
voucher would increase UKIs  liability as UKIs  discount would be reduced as well. As such, 
its not something that UKI can achieve  nor is it something its required to do under the policy  
terms.  
Overall, I think the total value of the claim is reasonable  and UKIs offer is in line with the 
terms and conditions. As such, wont be asking UKI to increase its offer or change  the way it 
settles this claim. 
Ref: DRN03370043my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint against 
U K Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Jamie Sutherland  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0337004