K820x#14complaint
Miss A says Allianz Insurance Plc didnt deal properly with a claim she made  on her motor  
insurance policy after her car was written-off in an accident. Miss A is represented by Mr S.
background
Miss As car was bought  from new and was just under  a year old when it was written-off. 
Mr S said the policy entitled her to a replacement new car. He said the policy  wording wasnt 
clear on the issue. Mr S said Allianz had only offered Miss A the market  value for her car, 
which he thought  was too low. He also said Miss A should have been offered a courtesy car.
One of our investigators  considered Mss As complaint. She didnt think  Miss A was entitled 
to a new car. In her view, although  new cars manufactured since  Miss As car were  of the 
same make and model, there had been a change in the cars specification.  So she didnt 
think the policy term on replacement new cars applied. She thought  the policy  wording was 
clear. And she noted that Allianz had offered Miss A the price shed paid for her car when 
new - not its market value   as a gesture of goodwill. She also noted that Miss A had 
accepted £200 from Allianz  for not providing a courtesy car to her.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  of the courtesy  car has been dealt  with, so I dont need  to address it here.
Like most policies, Miss As policy offers a market value settlement should  a car be written 
off. But for cars that are less than a year old, the policy offers extra  cover. I think  the policy  
wording is clear. It says that Allianz will replace a car with a new one of the same make, 
model and specification if the cost of replacing  the damage to the existing car is more than 
50% of the price  of an identical new car at the time of the damage.  I think  it follows  that if 
those terms are not met, the settlement Allianz  will offer is the cars market value.  
Allianz noted that the new model  of Miss As car had a different  engine and increased power. 
It also had external features that made it look different to Miss As car. Mr S argued that 
there had been  no change  in specification. I dont think thats correct when there have been 
alterations to the engine  and to the cars  appearance. I think Allianz  made a reasonable 
decision not to replace  Miss As car with one that looked and performed differently.
Allianz accepted  that its engineer didnt realise  at first that Miss A might  be eligible for a new 
car, and instead  offered her the market value  for it. But it then offered to pay Miss A what 
shed paid for her car. As that was higher than the market value  which was the sum she 
was entitled to under the policy  I think that was a reasonable  gesture of goodwill. 
Mr S said Miss A got a good  discount when she bought the car, and she might  not get that 
again. So he thinks it isnt sufficient for Allianz to pay Miss A the sum she spent on the car. I 
think Miss A may be able to get another good discount, depending on which car she buys. 
But if she doesnt, I dont  think  that justifies Allianz  being asked to pay her more. In my view 
that would  put Miss A in a better  position than she was in when she bought  the original car. 
Ref: DRN07870882Mr S also suggested that Miss As car should  be valued as new. Even if I thought  that was a 
fair proposal,  I dont  think it would  be possible.  Miss As car was no longer being 
manufactured at the time of its loss, so we dont know what it would have cost.  And in any 
event, at the time of loss it had been driven for almost a year and had over 13,000 miles on 
the clock. 
I dont think Mr A has been able to show that Allianz acted unreasonably in dealing with her 
claim, so I cant uphold Miss As complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0787088