K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited didnt act fairly  or reasonably  when 
servicing his boiler  under  a home care insurance  policy. He wants  compensation for damage 
to his flooring.
background
Mr R had a home care insurance policy with British Gas. He had a new boiler installed and 
British Gas came to his property to carry out the first annual  service. Mr R said that the 
engineer failed to spot that an automatic air vent had failed, Mr R alleged  that the engineer 
didnt remove the cover plate to expose it (as allegedly  shown by the build-up of scale).  Mr R 
said that at the second annual boiler service, the engineer  discovered  that the vent had 
failed and said that it had happened a considerable time ago. Mr R said that the water  leak 
was due to the failed  vent, and caused damage  to flooring. He wanted the costs  of the new 
flooring paid by British  Gas.
Mr R complained to British Gas. It said the damage wasnt  caused  by British Gas,  but 
because the vent failed.  It suggested  that Mr R claimed under his home insurance.
Mr R complained to us. The investigator  didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt  think  that the 
evidence showed  that the boiler had been poorly  installed and noted that vents  can simply 
fail without any fault on the part of the installer. The investigator said that the component  did 
fail and there was no way to know when (the condition of the boiler didnt help identify  when 
due to the heat within  the boiler accelerating the rusting process). She also noted that Mr Rs 
policy only covered  damage to flooring  if British  Gas caused the leak, which it didnt  in this 
case.
Mr R disagreed. He thought that the first engineer didnt properly carry out the service.  The 
investigator said that there wasnt enough  evidence to make  such a finding.  Mr R denied  that 
hed said that the boiler  had been installed incorrectly and reiterated his view that he 
believed the engineer didnt remove the cover plate during the first service. He said that he 
thought the vent failed due to scale  affecting its operation and there was a failure to add a 
scale inhibitor by British  Gas. The investigator  said that the evidence  suggested  that a scale  
inhibitor was used,  but the key point was that British Gas didnt cause  the water  leak.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R feels that British  Gas shouldve noticed  that the vent had failed earlier at the first boiler  
service. But theres no evidence that the vent had failed by that point;  its possible  that the 
vent failed after the first annual service and before the second one. Components can fail at 
any time. And the damage  to the flooring was not caused by British  Gas; it was caused  by 
the vent failing, something for which I think British  Gas wasnt  responsible. This means the 
costs of repairing  the damage  to the floor isnt covered by the terms of the insurance policy.
Ref: DRN00142342It appears from what Mr R has said that he didnt spot the damage to the flooring or the 
water leak.  An engineer spotted  it. So Mr R doesnt  know when the vent failed  and 
British Gas couldnt fix a leak that it didnt know about. The condition of the boiler doesnt 
prove that the first engineer didnt open  the cover as heat accelerates the process of rusting 
and scale builds up at an unknown rate; the component couldve failed the day after the 
service. Im unable to find that the vent failed before the first annual  service of the boiler 
given the evidence.
Theres also no evidence supporting a view that the installation of the boiler was poor. The 
evidence does suggest a scale inhibitor was used. Unfortunately, components can fail. Even  
the evidence relied upon  by Mr R makes this point.
Mr R has said that the vent failed due to the build-up of scale, but this isnt supported by any 
expert evidence and in any event, scale build-up  isnt necessarily British Gas fault.  
British Gas is entitled to rely on the view of its experts which say the vent simply failed. 
Theres no independent evidence to contradict this. And I note that Mr R has referred to 
information which confirms that vents  can simply fail. I think  its more likely  than not the vent 
just failed and I cant find that it was due to the build-up of scale or any failing of British  Gas.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision before 27 July 
2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0014234