K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about Ageas  Insurance  Limiteds actions after a claim was made  
against his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Ageas  includes  its agents.
background
Mr S was driving slowly  through a retail  park when a pedestrian  told him hed hit her as he 
drove past. Mr S says no contact took place.
The pedestrian made  a claim against  Mr Ss policy. Ageas paid the claim.  Mr S wasn't happy 
with Ageas decision and brought his complaint  to us. Our adjudicator didn't think Ageas had 
done anything  wrong. Mr S didn't  agree so his complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr S has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered all 
those carefully, but in this decision I will focus  on what  I see as being the key issues at the 
heart of Mr Ss complaint.
the incident leading to the claim
Mr S is very unhappy that Ageas paid the pedestrians claim. He says there  was no contact 
between them and her claim is fraudulent. So I can understand why the situation has upset 
him so much, particularly as its affected  his premiums.
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos  at fault for an accident, or 
indeed if that accident took place, as ultimately thats a matter  for the courts. And, like all 
motor policies, Mr Ss policy allows Ageas to settle  claims as it sees fit. That means  it 
doesnt require  Mr Ss consent to decide how to settle a claim and it may make a decision 
that Mr S doesnt agree  with. But Ill look to see that its done so reasonably.
Mr S believes that his car didn't  hit the pedestrian. But the pedestrian says otherwise. She 
saw her GP that day. And she later saw another doctor who provided a medical  report  to say 
she suffered injuries  consistent with the accident as she described it. Mr S doesn't  think 
Ageas did enough to investigate. Hes suggested  that that the GPs report  might not have 
been genuine or there might have  been  collusion between the pedestrian  and the GP. But I 
don't think  thats  something Ageas needed  to investigate.
As I said above it wasn't the pedestrians GP but another doctor who assessed her injuries in 
connection with the claim.  That doctor  has signed a statement of truth that her report is 
based on his clinical findings and expertise and is suitable for presentation as witness  
evidence in court. In order to challenge  that evidence,  Ageas might have had to provide their 
own medical report which said the pedestrian hadn't suffered the injuries the doctor noted. 
But, that would have been a very costly  process. Also,  the pedestrians injuries were largely 
soft tissue and psychological in nature. And Ageas  would have been aware that it would be 
Ref: DRN02119822very difficult for another doctor to say those injuries  didn't  exist.  So I think its reasonable that 
it didn't investigate the medical evidence further.
Mr S asked if the pedestrian produced an ambulance or police report. But the pedestrian  
didn't say she called an ambulance or the police. So no such  reports exist. Mr S also said 
that the pedestrian stopped him from calling the police. But he could have called the police if 
he wanted to. Just because the matter wasn't  reported to the police doesn't mean its 
reasonable for Ageas to say it didn't happen. 
Mr S also asked if Ageas requested CCTV footage of the incident. I haven't  seen evidence  it 
did. It would  have been helpful if Ageas had asked  if that footage existed. But I note there 
was a gap of some months between the date of the incident and Ageas receiving the claim. 
So its unlikely that even if the incident had been caught by CCTV that the footage would still 
have been available at the time Ageas received the claim. That's because CCTV footage is 
usually only held for a short period of time. So I don't think the fact that I've seen  no 
evidence that Ageas requested CCTV footage has affected the outcome.  
Ageas would also have been  aware  that Mr Ss car might have given the pedestrian a 
glancing blow without  Mr S realising it. So although Mr S was sure he didn't hit the 
pedestrian, that might  not have been  the case. And Ageas had two versions of events; 
Mr Ss and the pedestrians. There were no independent witnesses, and if Ageas had 
decided to try to defend the claim, it would have been Mr Ss word  against the pedestrians.  
And given  the pedestrian provided medical evidence that supported her account, I think it 
was reasonable  that Ageas decided it couldnt successfully defend  the claim if the matter 
went to court.
It might help if I explain that court proceedings always involve an element  of risk for both 
parties. And defending an action in court will inevitably involve additional  costs.  As Ageas 
would have to incur the costs of instructing lawyers, on top of the additional administrative 
costs of defending an action would  bring.  So if Ageas had let the matter  go to court  it could 
have faced significantly higher costs than the costs  of settling  the claim. 
Mr S has asked  whether  either side would have to prove their case beyond reasonable 
doubt. But an injury claim following an incident  on the road is a civil rather than a criminal  
matter. Only criminal cases need  to be decided in court beyond reasonable doubt. Civil 
claims are settled  on the basis of the balance of probabilities;  that is whats  more likely than 
not to have happened. And given that the pedestrian had medical evidence in her favour, 
Ageas felt that a court would prefer the pedestrians  evidence. So it decided to settle  the 
claim, and I think that position was reasonable.
For completeness Ill add that Mr S has said his complaint isn't about winning in court  but 
exposing fraudsters. But an allegation of fraud would be a matter for the police and the 
Crown Prosecution Service,  that wouldn't be for Ageas to decide. And I think that if Ageas 
had thought there was enough  evidence the claim was fraudulent  it wouldn't  have decided to 
settle it. 
premium
Mr S is also unhappy that his premium has gone  up significantly since Ageas settled the 
claim. And given the extra costs to him, especially when hes certain no contact took place, I 
can understand his frustration. But its usual  for insurers to consider drivers with a recent 
claim against their policy as being  a higher risk than those without such  a claim. And 
Ref: DRN02119823insurers will usually reflect that increased  risk in the premiums they charge when they renew 
the policy. And thats whats happened  in this case. So, given  Ageas  paid out on a claim, 
and I think it did that fairly, it follows that I think it was fair for it to reflect  the change in risk in 
the premiums it charged Mr S. 
Having considered the matter very carefully,  Im satisfied that Ageas calculated Mr Ss 
premium as it would  for its other customers with similar circumstances. And Mr S was under 
no obligation  to accept Ageass quotes. So I think it dealt with him reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0211982