K820x#14complaint 
Miss C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc is holding her liable for a transaction  which  she 
says she didnt make on her account. Shes  also concerned about its decision to close  her 
account and record  a marker with a fraud prevention  agency  (FPA).  
background 
On 2 January  2018 Miss C received a payment into her account  from a third party. On 
4 January 2018 she transferred these  funds out of the account by online banking into 
another of her accounts. The same day an online bill payment  was made to a company Ill 
call B. Ten days later, on 14 January 2018  Miss C reported her card missing to HSBC.    
A payment of £5,000  was then made into her account on 16 January 2018.  Shortly after the 
credit to Miss Cs account an online banking transfer  was made from it of the £5,000  plus a 
further £988.89, which put the account into its overdraft by £964.83.
HSBC said the credit of £5,000 was reported  as fraudulent by the sending bank. It says 
several attempts  were made, by phone and letter to speak with Miss C. Miss C contacted 
HSBC by phone on 15 March 2018 and was asked to attend  a branch. Due to receiving no 
further response, HSBC closed Miss Cs account  in June 2018 and recorded a marker 
against her with a FPA.
Miss C says she received  no contact  from HSBC, other than its letter from February  2018,  
which she received  in March when she returned  home from university. In the call of 
15 March 2018  Miss C says she wasnt told it was urgent. She attended a branch late 
April 2018.   
HSBC said it was unhappy with the operation  of the account and refers to the £5,000 
transaction on 16 January 2018 that was reported as fraudulent.  It added  that its failed to 
find any point of compromise for Miss Cs personal internet banking  and that it has no 
reason to believe the account had been  taken over. HSBC says while  her card was reported  
as missing this would not give access  to internet banking  via her security  questions and 
secure key - which is a device that generates a unique passcode to log on. Referring to the 
reactivation notes its provided  HSBC  says these demonstrate Miss C had access  to internet 
banking  as the reactivation codes were sent to the same  mobile number since  
December 2017,  and that these codes would need  to be inputted  into the secure key. 
Because of this, its decision to close the account remains. Miss C referred the matter to this 
service and one of our investigators considered it. 
Our investigator contacted both parties  for more  information as she wanted  to see the online 
banking records, IP address information  and call recordings  of when Miss C reported the 
card missing. Unfortunately,  due to the time thats passed HSBC  has been  unable to provide 
these. Miss C has also been unable to provide evidence of her phone contact with HSBC 
when referring our investigator to her attempts to resolve this matter.  When  considering the 
available evidence, such as HSBCs  system notes, the account statements and both parties  
testimonies, our investigator  concluded  there wasnt enough to show an unknown third party  
had made  the transaction. She wasnt persuaded the account had been compromised and 
found HSBC was entitled to close the account in accordance with the account terms and 
conditions. She also thought  there  was enough evidence  for HSBC to record  a marker  with 
the FPA and that Miss C was liable for the overdraft amount.   
Ref: DRN06995402Miss C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint. In summary she 
said that;
Shed  reported  her card lost to HSBC prior to the transactions.
Her circumstances  at the time havent  been considered with regards to when she 
attended the branch. At the time she was doing a work experience placement 
(Monday to Friday,  9  5 pm) and there  was two hours travel each way. She was in 
university accommodation and it was hard to get an appointment outside of these 
hours. Miss C was also getting  married and went on her honeymoon, as well as end 
of year exams. 
She maintains  she had no knowledge  of either payment to company B and says she 
did not make the online banking  transfer  on 16 January 2018. She says she didnt 
become aware  of the payment into her account until she received HSBCs letter in 
March when she returned home  from university   when she then called. Miss Cs 
also said she spent many hours on the phone to HSBC trying to resolve  the matter 
and is unhappy  HSBC is unable to provide information of these  calls or the IP 
address.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I 
have to reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words, what I consider is 
more likely than not to have happened  in light of the available evidence  and the wider  
circumstances.
Having done so, my review of the available  evidence  has led me to the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator previously  set out and for broadly the same reasons. I will 
now explain  why. 
Were the transactions authorised?
Our investigator already explained  in her view the regulations  that we consider when 
looking at a case like this. To briefly re-cap: -
The regulations relevant  to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 and 2017 
(the PSRs 2009 and 2017). They explain that a payment out of someones account can 
only be authorised  if the payer (in this case Miss C) has consented to it. The payment 
service provider (in this case  HSBC)  must show the payment was authenticated. But its not 
enough for HSBC  to simply  rely on the fact that Miss Cs security questions  and secure  key 
were used. 
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because  Miss C will be liable for
payments she has authorised and, generally speaking, HSBC  will be liable for 
unauthorised payments.  Although account holders can become liable for unauthorised 
payments when they havent met certain obligations.  
Based on everything  Ive seen and been told, I dont think  its unreasonable  for HSBC
to find it more likely than not that Miss C authorised the transaction or allowed another  
person to do so with her knowledge. I will set out why:
Ref: DRN06995403I can see Miss C was able to access online banking on 4 January 2018,  when she 
used internet banking to transfer  funds to another account she held with a different 
bank. Ive reviewed the bank  statements  for both accounts, and Im satisfied the 
funds were successfully transferred into an account  which Miss C told us she uses  
regularly. On the same  day, a bill payment was set up to company B. HSBC have 
said in order to set up a bill payment  to a new beneficiary via internet banking  Miss C 
would need the secure  key and the pin number. 
Im mindful there has been varying  information provided around the lost card and 
secure key. HSBCs information shows Miss C reported her card missing but in her 
contact with our service shes told us she doesnt know how she lost her card or 
exactly when. Miss C said she always  kept her card with the secure key and that her 
pin was not written down.  Yet has also said she is not 100% sure she had the secure  
key. Then  in her reply to our investigators view, she said she requested a new 
secure key but didnt  pick this up from HSBC. Miss C adds that nobody had access 
to her phone or computer.  
Whilst I appreciate memories can fade over time,  I do have to keep  in mind the 
differing information  provided about the lost card and secure key when considering 
what I think is more likely  than not to have happened.
As Ive said above,  Im persuaded Miss C had access  to internet banking on 
4 January 2018. And that in order to have accessed  internet banking at this time, it 
would have required the answers  to Miss Cs security questions,  along  with the 
generated unique passcode from the secure key. 
While Miss Cs told us she didnt know anything  about the bill payment set up to 
company B on 4 January  2018, given this was the same day that she transferred 
funds between her accounts, I find it unlikely this was made by someone other than 
Miss C. I say this as Ive not seen anything that suggests Miss C had lost the card at 
this point and there  was no indication that the secure key was missing. 
Considering  everything Ive seen and been  told, Ive not been given a plausible 
explanation as to how another person, without the help or knowledge  of Miss C, was 
able to gain enough  information to allow them to make the online banking  transfer  on 
16 January 2018 from her account.  
Based on what Miss C has told us its not completely clear as to how she accessed 
her internet  banking. In her calls with our investigator shes  said she accessed her 
internet banking via her computer but then mentioned the phone app. She added that 
she thinks she had an app and continued  to tell us she thinks through the app she 
used it. In order to log into her internet banking Miss C would have needed  to answer  
her security  questions as well as entering the unique passcode  generated. Miss C 
has been clear that no-one had access to her computer or phone  and, while  shes  
referred to living  in shared accommodation at the time, shes told us no-one knew her 
passwords and that her phone is locked, and password protected. 
So, even though Miss C reported her card missing  and said she didnt have the 
secure key, another person in possession of these would  still have  needed to know 
Miss Cs security answers  and have  been able to gain access  either  to her computer 
or phone.  But given  what shes  told us this doesnt seem possible or likely.  So, in the 
Ref: DRN06995404absence of stronger  evidence that shows another person could have gained access 
to Miss Cs online banking  or of a clearer point of compromise, I find this unlikely.
 
It follows that I find it equally unlikely  that another person in possession  of Miss Cs 
card, secure key and security information would have known when the funds would 
credit her account  on 16 January 2018,  enabling them to make the online bill 
payment very shortly after it credited the account and to a beneficiary that had been 
set up ten days  earlier.  
Taking all the above points  into consideration  and in the absence  of a more  likely 
explanation, I find, on balance, that Miss C authorised the disputed transaction  or 
allowed another person to make the transaction with her knowledge and consent.
Account closure  
HSBC has given us a copy of the terms and conditions for the account  closest to the time 
Miss Cs account was closed. I can see this says the bank can close  the account  
immediately and without  notice if its reasonable for it to believe, that a customer has or are 
using or obtaining (or allowing someone else to) an account, service or money illegally or 
fraudulently. The terms and conditions further say that HSBC  can also close the account by 
giving the customer  at least two months notice.
HSBC have sent us a copy  of the letter it sent to Miss C informing her of the account
closure in April 2018. I can see the letter  explains that HSBC no longer  wished  to provide 
Miss C with any bank accounts and advised her that her account  was now being closed. The 
account was subsequently closed  by HSBC in June  2018.  
Given whats been said above, Im unable to find HSBC  has done anything  wrong  in closing 
Miss Cs account. Im satisfied HSBC  has complied with its obligations under the terms and 
condition of the agreement. 
Marker recorded with FPA
The £5,000 credited to Miss Cs account  was reported as a fraudulent transaction.  Before 
placing a marker against  Miss Cs name  with a FPA,  HSBC  needed  to have a reasonable 
belief that criminal charges could be brought  against Miss C as a result of the activity. A 
suspicion or concern  isnt enough. So, I need  to decide if theres enough  evidence  to show  
HSBC has acted fairly. 
Miss C says she wasnt expecting a credit into her account and doesnt  know anything  about  
this. Ive already  concluded that Miss Cs account  hadnt been taken over and that on 
balance, I think its more  likely than not that she either authorised the transaction on the 
account or allowed another person to do so with her knowledge. So, I think its more likely 
than not that she also knew about the fraudulent credit.
It follows that I think there is enough information  here for a marker to be placed against 
Miss C, and that the information available suggests she knows more  about the transaction  
than shes told us. 
Overdraft 
Ref: DRN06995405For the reasons  Ive already explained, Im satisfied Miss C is liable  for the overdraft amount 
outstanding on the account.  
I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss C, but I hope she understands  why I have 
reached the decision I have.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2020.
Staci Rowland  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0699540