K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unreasonably held her responsible under her 
motor policy  for causing an accident.
background
Miss R was involved in an accident  in December  2017 in which her car was written off. Her 
insurer, AXA, settled the claim  on the basis that Miss R was at fault.  
Miss R strongly disagreed  and corresponded with AXA to that effect. She then brought her 
complain to us. She said AXA had repeatedly  failed  to reply to her questions  and hadnt  
given her a satisfactory  explanation for its decision.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. He said he didnt think  AXA had 
handled the claim well. He said that AXA had relied  on a section of the Highway Code that, 
on Miss Rs version of events, didnt  apply. He said that AXA hadnt  obtained any evidence 
to dispute what  Miss R had told it and that it hadnt tried to obtain CCTV footage, despite the 
police saying it was probably available. In short AXA hadnt  tried to establish  accurately what  
had happened  and had potentially prejudiced Miss Rs position. 
Our adjudicator asked  AXA to change the outcome  of the claim to no fault  and to refund 
the excess which it had deducted  from Miss Rs claim. The adjudicator  felt that the £200  
AXA had already paid for its poor customer service  was appropriate.
AXA agreed with our adjudicator and repaid the excess  of £100 to Miss R.
Miss R said she agreed with most of what the adjudicator said,  apart from two things.
She explained that when  her car was written off the insurance policy  had another  ten months 
to run. So she transferred it to a new car, but had to pay an increased  premium because of 
the accident. She said she would like the increase in premium to be refunded.
She also said that she wasnt happy with the £200 paid for the poor service shed received. 
She didnt  think that was enough.
Subsequently AXA told us that any increase in the policy premium had been for reasons 
unrelated to the claim. It said there had been a change of address, occupation, vehicle and 
voluntary excess,  all of which had affected the premium.
We asked Miss R for some information  so that we could consider what AXA had said.  
Despite a reminder, Miss R hasnt  replied.
The matter  has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive reached the same  overall conclusions as our adjudicator for much  the same  reasons. I 
dont think AXA adequately investigated the claim.  So Im pleased  that it agreed  with our 
Ref: DRN00218222adjudicators recommendations to put things right by changing the outcome of the claim to 
no fault. 
I note what AXA says about the premium  increase. In the absence of the information  
requested from Miss R, I havent  been able to consider this further.  But I dont think  I need  to 
delay this decision. As AXA now accepts  that the claim should be regarded as being a no 
fault claim I would expect  it to ensure that its previous  (incorrect)  decision didnt lead to an 
increase in premium.  If Miss R provides evidence to show otherwise then AXA will need  to 
refund any premium overcharged.
So it only remains for me to consider the amount of compensation AXA has paid for its poor 
handling of the claim.
Miss R was, understandably, very upset  by AXAs decision about her claim. This was 
undoubtedly made worse  by AXAs  lack of any reasonable explanation,  delays and repeated 
failures to reply to her enquiries.  I can understand how frustrating and time consuming  that 
was. I dont make light of it. But I think the £200  already paid is appropriate. So Im not going  
to ask AXA to do more in relation to this part of the complaint.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc has taken appropriate  action to put matters right and I make no 
further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2020..
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0021822