K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC didnt allow them  to set up a further 
repayment plan or grant them concessions to pay off their mortgage balance. They also 
complain about  the solicitors charges  added  to the account 
background
Mr and Mrs H have an interest-only mortgage with Barclays. It was originally taken out in 
December 1991  for a balance of £29,000.00 over a term of 25 years.  The mortgage term 
matured in December  2016. The property is a flat. Mr and Mrs H dont now live there but use 
it as a holiday home.
Mr and Mrs H were unable to pay off the capital balance at the end of the term. They 
reached an agreement  with Barclays to pay off the balance over a five-year  period. At that 
stage the balance was £43,501.96 but the arrangement didnt go smoothly. Since 2017 there 
were a number of payment arrangements but in early 2019 Barclays said it wouldnt agree  to 
a further one. Mr and Mrs H say that they have been paying affordable amounts after 
negotiations with Barclays and they have been meeting their target of paying  off the 
mortgage balance  within five years of the end of the mortgage term. Mr and Mrs H want 
Barclays to agree a further arrangement.
Barclays say that as Mr and Mrs H dont live there,  they could  sell the property and pay off 
the balance that way. Barclays says that in February 2020 that the balance was £26,942.49. 
It says that it already  gave Mr and Mrs H time to pay off the mortgage  but say that the plans 
they made were  broken,  so they were considering legal proceedings to recover the property. 
In February of this year, the bank told us they got an offer from Mr and Mrs Hs solicitor to 
pay a lump sum payment of £15,000  and the balance  by monthly payments. The bank says 
that if it were  to agree to this it would have to be made a Consent Order  in court. Since that 
time, Mr and Mrs H paid the £15,000  and have been making  regular payments of £955 for 
some time so the balance has considerably reduced  to about £5,500.
Although Mr and Mrs H wanted to bring their complaint  about  other  matters  including  the 
fees and charges applied  since  the beginning of the account, under our rules we are not 
able to consider  every  complaint. This matter was the subject of an ombudsmans decision 
on 20 April 2020 which was that we can only consider Barclays refusal to grant any further 
concessions on the account and the legal fees that have been added to the account. 
Barclays added two legal charges to the account.  Firstly, in September  2019 after it 
instructed solicitors in August 2019, those solicitors invoiced  Barclays  £139.20 for opening  a 
file, instructing a Land Registry search and sending a letter  before claim and this was added 
to Mr and Mrs Hs account. 
Mr and Mrs H then themselves instructed solicitors who issued a letter of claim. From 
reading the letter of claim,  it appears  to relate  to historic charges on the account  and not to 
matters covered in this complaint. For responding  to that claim Barclayss  solicitor invoiced 
£5,110.80 which was added to Mr and Mrs Hs account on 12 December 2019. Mr and Mrs 
H made a separate complaint about the second invoice after bringing  this complaint to us. 
Barclays said that as this was a separate matter brought  after the first complaint was made 
that it be considered  separately.  This service opened a new complaint  about that which  is 
being considered by an investigator who hasnt yet issued a view. 
Ref: DRN07265992Our investigators view
In respect of this complaint, our investigator  felt that the failure by Mr and Mrs H to repay 
Barclays in a timely manner meant that the balance wouldnt be paid off in the five-year  
period and that Barclays had done  nothing wrong  in referring the case to its solicitors.  So, he 
didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs H disagreed and asked 
for a review.
My provisional findings
 
I issued a Provisional  Decision in this complaint and summarise my provisional findings.  I 
noted that this was a dispute  about  whether Barclays should have given Mr and Mrs H 
another chance to restart their repayment plan in 2019, which  had been agreed in 2017, 
after a period when Mr and Mrs H fell behind in their payments. 
I reviewed the documentation including the contact notes and noted the following:
After the mortgage  term matured,  there  were discussions  between  Mr and Mrs H and 
Barclays about how to manage the repayment of the capital. 
There was a note that Mr Hs mother had been living in the property but had sadly  
passed away and they appear  to be now using the property  as a family holiday  
home. 
There was no record of what the repayment vehicle was to be
There was a discussion  about  using pension payments to pay off the balance. 
Then a note that Mr and Mrs H didnt  want to look at remortgaging  elsewhere but 
preferred to agree a repayment plan with Barclays. At that stage the balance  was 
£43,501.96. The difference between this and the original balance was through 
historical arrears. 
I noted that through the summer of 2017 there were discussions about a repayment plan 
with the Bank asking  further questions including about the upkeep  of the holiday home and 
the durability of the plan as at that time Mr H was 68 and Mrs H 63 and they would be 
potentially heading  into retirement. Eventually, a repayment  plan was agreed in August 2017  
to pay £909.50  per month for five years.
I said that this plan didnt start well as the September  payment, although paid, was made 
later in the month than it should  have  been.  The plan had been reset for 11 November but 
there was no payment  in November. That was rectified with two payments in December 
2017 and in January 2018  the plan was reset - with payments up to date - but during March, 
September and October payments were missed because Mr Hs income as self-employed 
fluctuated and so he missed  those payments. I noted that at the end of 2018 Mr and Mrs H 
wanted Barclays to set up another plan, but Barclays refused.
I said that Barclays had a number of concerns - not just the problem about the payments - 
but more especially the usage of the property  as a holiday home and the fact that it would be 
vacant for months. I noted that Barclays refused  to set up another  plan. It said that it 
assisted Mr and Mrs H for a period and now wanted  the property sold or Mr and Mrs H to 
raise money on it through an IFA. When Mr and Mrs H had taken no action to do so, in 
August, it passed the matter to its solicitors,  but no legal action followed. I noted  that during 
this period, Mr and Mrs H effectively continued  as if there was still an ongoing arrangement 
with Barclays by making the monthly  payments of £955 including in some months two 
payments to catch  up on the arrears. 
Ref: DRN07265993I noted that when  this interest-only mortgage came  to an end, Mr and Mrs Hs preferred 
option was to get an extension of the mortgage on a repayment basis  for five years. This 
suited Barclays even  though the lender  knew that the property was unoccupied and used as 
a holiday home. I said that in the earlier discussions there was no discussion about whether 
this arrangement was in Mr and Mrs Hs best interests or whether  there  were  alternative 
options and that the actual sale of the property wasnt discussed.
My view was that the arrangement had some  teething problems and then some further 
problems but what brought  the arrangement to an end was when Barclays had concerns 
about this property being unoccupied and, as a result the arrangement  was contrary to its 
policy. So, I said that my concern was that Barclays knew about  this earlier  and that it would 
have been better for Barclays to have considered it at the start in a conversation with Mr and 
Mrs H about the options  that might be available to them.
So, I said I would have  to look at the question  of fairness. I noted  that Barclays was prepared  
to assist Mr and Mrs H who wanted  a five-year repayment extension to their mortgage, then 
about a year later realised  that it had made a mistake given the nature of the property. 
Although I understood why Barclays would have  wanted  to get out of the arrangement,  I said 
that it should also consider the interests of Mr and Mrs H whom it encouraged in the belief 
that they could  have  an arrangement which would allow  them to purchase the property if 
they made repayments over five years. 
My view was that when Barclays discovered  its error  that it should have had a candid 
discussion with Mr and Mrs H about what their options were and what was in their best 
interests. I couldnt see in the contact notes that Barclays  ever raised with Mr and Mrs H its 
problem with their usage  of the property. Mr and Mrs H have always  understood that the 
problem was the previous failure to make regular payments.  I noted  that although they fell 
behind in payments,  they caught up and seemed  to have  been willing  to explore with 
Barclays drawing down  pension money  rather than relying on Mr Hs income  from his work 
alone which seemed to have been  the cause of the default.  
I said that Barclays referred this to its solicitors in August 2019. At that stage under the 
arrangement Mr and Mrs H should have made 24 payments of £909.50.  According  to my 
calculations by the end of that month Mr and Mrs H had made 12 payments  of £909.50 and 
12 payments of £955. I said that this showed a commitment by Mr and Mrs H to the 
arrangement. Understandably,  Barclays had concerns at an earlier stage  about  the regularity 
of payments.  But at the end of 2018  the lender didnt explore with Mr and Mrs H the reasons 
why they were unable  to maintain the payments because  it was more concerned about the 
usage of the property .I said that If Barclays was concerned about the usage problem, they 
could have explored with Mr and Mrs H bringing forward  the payments. I see that Mr and 
Mrs Hs solicitors offered to make  a lump-sum upfront payment and eventually  Barclays  
indicated their willingness  to go along with that but subject to conditions including a consent  
order made at court.  But my view was that Barclays  should have  explored  this with Mr and 
Mrs H at a much earlier stage.
So, my view was that if Barclays only had concerns about the payments under the 
arrangement, it should have  re-assessed these in view of Mr and Mrs H resuming regular 
payments. If it had concerns about  the usage  of the property it should  have  addressed these 
to Mr and Mrs H to see if the arrangement plan could be restructured, such as bringing 
forward payments which  eventually happened. I said that I didnt accept that it was fair for 
Barclays to refer the matter to its solicitors as at that time the payments under  the 
Ref: DRN07265994arrangement were up to date. So, I issued my Provisional Decision and said that subject to 
any further submissions I received from Mr and Mrs H or Barclays  my intention was to 
uphold this complaint and for Barclays to pay Mr and Mrs H £350  for their trouble and upset 
and to refund them  £139.20 that was added  to their account In June 2019  for legal fees.    
.
Mr and Mrs H wrote to us to say that they have no further comments  to make  about this 
decision. Barclays made a number of submissions which I discuss  below.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays responded to my Provisional Decision and made a number  of submissions. The 
lender says that the original plan failed as the customer failed to make  the promised  
payments; when solicitors  were  instructed in August 2019 it would have taken more than five 
years post-maturity to clear  the balance and this was outside its collections policy; the plan 
had several failures  and was almost three years past maturity at that time; Barclays had 
concerns whether a valid insurance  policy was in place for the building;  there was a previous 
history of poor payment and litigation on the account; in August 2019,  there  was £27,665.10 
due on the account and the three payments  of £5,000 werent  made until the following  year 
which then reduced  the mortgage.
Barclays accepts that there were  communication issues and that it wasnt made clear that it 
intended to set up only one plan at maturity and that it didnt make clear its concerns about  
the usage of the property but believes  that Mr and Mrs H didnt respond to their reasonable 
attempts to contact  them or their suggestions that they look to refinance  elsewhere. But in 
the round,  Barclays agreed with my Provisional  Decision but felt that there  was no 
justification that the solicitors costs of £139.20  be waived.  
I thank Mr and Mrs H and Barclays for considering my Provisional Decision and their 
responses. The only issue appears  to be the solicitors costs  of £139.20 and that is really  a 
question of whether  it was fair for Barclays to forward it to litigation at the stage where the 
payment plan was, as I understand  it, up to date. The problem was that at that stage, 
Barclays was concerned about the usage of the property as a holiday  home  which affected 
how it viewed this account. But it hadnt communicated these concerns to Mr and Mrs H. So, 
I would have thought that it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs H to believe that if they met the 
terms of the original repayment arrangement,  and had a reasonable explanation for previous 
failures, that Barclays should have given consideration to that before forwarding the case  to 
external solicitors. The reason for Barclays  doing that appears to be Barclays concern about  
the usage of the property. But that concern  wasnt raised with Mr and Mrs H and they 
werent given the opportunity to address it and perhaps  bring forward  payments as they 
seem to have done since then. So, given  that, I believe that it was unfair  for Barclays  at that 
point to charge  Mr and Mrs H the fee for the engagement of solicitors in August 2019.
I have reviewed my provisional findings and I confirm that I believe that my 
Provisional Decision represents a fair outcome to this complaint and on that basis, I uphold  
this complaint.
My final decision
Ref: DRN07265995My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank  UK PLC to pay 
Mr and Mrs H £350 and to refund the sum of £139.20 being solicitors costs  incurred in 
August 2019 to their account.  
Gerard McManus
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0726599