K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs W were sold the policy in 2005  at the same time as applying  for their mortgage.  
They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy during a meeting in a branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for both Mr and Mrs W for accident, sickness, and unemployment 
 subject to its exclusions  and limitations.  It offered  to repay  £440  a month towards  Mr and 
Mrs Ws mortgage balance in the event of a successful  claim. This benefit was split in 
proportion to their annual income at the time. The policy cost £22.53 a month. 
At the time,  Mr W was employed as a plumber and Mrs W a support worker.  Both have said 
they were entitled  to at least 6 months  worth of sick pay and redundancy and had savings of 
approximately 3 months worth of income. Although Mr W had a broken leg during childhood  
he hasnt said that this led to any ongoing problems and both were in good health at the time 
of sale. 
NatWest has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage started in 2006 and its still 
running. Mr and Mrs W took out a further  advance in 2007  and increased  their PPI cover  to 
£600. 
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ws representative  says:
NatWest failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ws representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NatWest should  have 
told Mr and Mrs W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NatWest should  have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs W 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN01161652The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and 
The information Mr and Mrs W received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in November 2005 after the sale of general insurance  products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005.  So the FSAs 
and the FCAs  overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB) are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
Ref: DRN01161653In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NatWest, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so NatWest was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If NatWest  gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN01161654-Whether NatWest gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs W, I must then go on to consider  whether  and to what  extent  Mr and Mrs W 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs W 
and NatWest, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs W know they had a choice?
NatWest had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
NatWest have provided a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage application. I can see theres  a 
section on it that was completed  to show that they wanted to apply for PPI. If they didnt want  
PPI they couldve  initialled  not to take PPI. I can also see that a quote was requested  and 
accepted for PPI and that Mr and Mrs W went on to sign a separate direct  debit  instruction  to 
set up the collection  of premiums for the policy. 
NatWest have also provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage offer and key facts 
document. I can see that under section  nine PPI is listed as one of the Optional insurance 
and that the PPI has been listed along  with the monthly premium of £22.08.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs W knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did NatWest provide  advice?
NatWest says it didnt provide advice during this sale and Ive not seen  any evidence to 
show that this wasnt  the case. 
This means  NatWest didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs W. Instead, 
it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr and Mrs W to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs W were given a broad description  of what  
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr 
and Mrs W were unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs W 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
Ref: DRN01161655But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NatWest gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs W agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think NatWest  gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ws. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ws representative  considers  to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs W have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that NatWest ought  to have done either. 
what effect did NatWests  shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs W? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs W suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found NatWest didnt do all it should have  done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs W. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs 
W suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs W would have still taken out the policy, had NatWest done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs W say they would  not have taken it out and believe that I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs W had to weigh up in their own mind(s) the cost 
of the policy  against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of Mr and Mrs W being unable to work. 
Ref: DRN01161656As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs W chose  to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs W thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs W have  suffered  any loss 
or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs W knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear NatWest told them the exact premium at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs W would have been 
told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if 
the costs were significantly at odd with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
they might  have raised that with NatWest  at the time, or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs W would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  NatWest  made  clear  exactly what  Mr and Mrs W would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs 
Ws expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs W thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to chronic  or continuing sickness,  disease or 
injury from which  Mr and Mrs W knowingly suffered on the
policy start date. Or which  occurred within the first 12 months of the policy as a result  
of any condition, injury, disease, sickness or related condition and/or
associated symptoms, whether diagnosed or not which  theyd seen or arranged  to 
see a doctor  about  during the 12 months immediately before the policy  start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs W werent permanent  employees.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs W be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonable qualified them to do.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs W pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude that 
the policy was not as good as they thought and they might  have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs W from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. they were  eligible for its benefits and it provided 
Ref: DRN01161657cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  they 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr and Mrs W didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and were in permanent employment. So, I still think  they had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
W might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs W from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs W, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs W had known they could only claim for disability if they were  unable to do both 
their job and any similar employment which in the insurers view they might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr and Mrs W were  unable (through 
disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
NatWest may not have  told Mr and Mrs W that any claim they made would be limited  to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for. 
But 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs W would have received full sick pay for 
and their statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months 
income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs W would still have thought a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs W be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs Ws sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs W would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr and Mrs W were made redundant, or unable  to work 
through the accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs W would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the limitations 
on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN01161658the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs W found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs W believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. Im not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs W in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken out 
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude NatWest  should pay Mr and Mrs W compensation, as that would put them in a 
better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs W think NatWest misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of NatWests statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why 
NatWest failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs W, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2005 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find NatWest negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs W and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that NatWest  had been  in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs W in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Ref: DRN01161659Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 November  2020.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0116165