K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Insurance Limited gave poor service  under a home emergency 
insurance policy.
background
Mr A is a highly-qualified  engineer and he teaches  engineering.
He had a policy branded  with the name of a home assistance company. Aviva  was the 
insurer responsible  for dealing  with claims.  Where  I refer to Aviva  or the insurer, I include the 
home emergency company, its contractor company, and that companys engineers,  for 
whose actions I hold Aviva responsible.
In February 2018  Mr A called for help with an intermittent fault with hot water from his central 
heating boiler.  He complained that the insurer sent engineers  who didnt fix the fault.  So he 
ended up paying  the boiler  manufacturer about  £340.00 for a repair  (and a service).
Mr A emailed his complaint on the morning of 17 February 2018. He didnt get a final 
response letter within eight weeks. The letter was dated 2 May. It asked Mr A for a copy of 
the manufacturers report. He cancelled his policy on about 7 May 2018. He says he didnt 
receive the final response letter  until 8 May.
Mr A brought his complaint to us in October  2018. He sent us a copy of the manufacturers 
report, which we sent to the insurer.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think Aviva 
had made  a mistake.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to Aviva  on 11 February  2019.  I summarise my findings:
Whilst there is a dispute about exactly what was said on Friday 16 February, I found 
that Mr A decided to involve the boiler  manufacturer rather than to insist on another 
visit from the insurers contractor.
I hadnt been persuaded that there  was a breakdown or that the insurer was 
responsible for giving Mr A the service he paid the manufacturer for.
Subject to any further information from Mr A or from Aviva,  my provisional  decision was that I 
wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I didnt  intend to direct  Aviva Insurance Limited to do 
anything further  in response to this complaint.
On behalf of Aviva, the home assistance company  says it has nothing  to add in response to 
the provisional decision.
Mr A disagrees with the provisional decision.  He says, in summary, that:
Ref: DRN00798252He sent an email to the home  assistance company on 10 February 2018. This shows 
that (a) he and his wife were  already  unhappy with the service  they had received and 
(b) they had attempted to complain during the call that day.
The boiler was not delivering  hot water  at all for extended periods - hours and days.  
(The contractor witnessed this on their first visit, but not the second and third.) During 
these times, the boiler was no longer working. He feels that this does meet the 
criteria for a breakdown, as did the insurer and their contractors at the time.
The service life of a boiler  like his is fifteen years. His boiler  was eleven years old at 
the time of the problem. The manufacturer - who would have had a vested interest in 
selling a new boiler  said verbally that the boiler  was in excellent condition.
A partially blocked secondary heat exchanger would not have  resulted in a total 
failure of hot water, just a (possibly slight)  drop in performance.  A fully or seriously 
blocked heat exchanger would  have triggered a fault warning and a flashing indicator 
light, as shown on the manufacturer's  Fault-Finding Guide, which  he has sent us.  No  
warning light was present. The manufacturer's technician said that the heat 
exchanger could be causing  the water temperature to be slightly  lower  than ideal, but 
he felt that the flow switch and diverter were the likely suspects. When  labour or call-
out costs are high in relation to parts costs - as is the case  with this incident  - it is a 
standard technical practice to replace any part that could be at fault while you have 
the box open. However, the water temperature  was acceptable, and Mr A would  not 
have had this repaired if it had not 'come  free' with the breakdown fix. All the parts 
fitted would  have been quite  cheap if paid for separately - it was the call-out charge 
that was expensive.
The cold water strainer that the contractors rinsed is part of the flow sensor that was 
subsequently found by the manufacturer to be broken. This is an internal part, and 
cannot be accessed except by a gas-safe certified plumber.  It does seem  reasonable 
to suppose that the contractor - who disturbed  it and seemed far less than competent 
- caused  the damage.
Mr A and his wife listed the contractor's  actions  as they felt that it supported  the view 
that they were  not competent to work on the boiler.  They  ignored the manufacturer's 
troubleshooting guidelines.  
The substance  of the disputed conversation  is important.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covered a leak or breakdown  of the boiler  or central heating system. A breakdown 
was defined to mean  a sudden and unforeseen malfunction resulting in the unit or system  
no longer working .
The policy provided  for the insurer  to send an engineer to do a repair. It didnt cover routine 
maintenance. It didnt  cover the cost of repairs done  by anyone else without the insurers  
prior agreement. And it didnt cover  sludge or scale in the system. Nor did it cover repairs 
where the boiler was beyond economic repair (BER).
From the manufacturers report, the boiler had been installed in 2007. 
I have no reason to doubt Mr As statement that it had been serviced regularly.  And I accept 
his statement that the insurers contractor questioned  this. But he also says the contractor  
Ref: DRN00798253did a service. So I dont  think the contractor or the insurer could then pursue any suggestion  
of lack of servicing.
In view of its age, I dont think it wouldve been  inappropriate  for the insurers contractor to 
suggest that Mr A should consider buying  a new boiler.
From Avivas  contact notes, I can see that Mr A called on 10 February 2018. I accept that he 
wasnt happy and asked unsuccessfully to speak  to a manager.
His emailed complaint of 17 February  didnt complain about  the way the insurer handled the 
earlier call. So I dont  find that the insurer said anything inappropriate.
On the second  visit, Mr A says the contractor  cleaned  out the internal condensate trap. He 
says it shouldve done this on the first visit. But I dont think  hes shown that the contractor 
didnt clean it twice.  And Mr A hasnt shown that this relates  to the hot water issue.  
Mr A says that on the third visit, the contractor rinsed the cold water strainer.  He has recently  
said that the contractor  damaged the flow sensor.  But I dont think theres enough evidence 
of this. 
I have no reason to doubt Mr As statement that on the third visit the contractor caused a trip 
at his electrical distribution  board.  But Mr A hasnt said that any harm came of this.
I have no reason to doubt Mr As statement that on the second and third visits, the contractor 
declined his or his wifes suggestion  that  in line with the manufacturers  fault-finding  guide  - 
it should look at the flow switch, diverter valve and control board. But I dont find it 
unreasonable that the contractor didnt do so as it found the system was providing hot water 
at those times.
When he filled in our complaint form, Mr A said that the boiler was behaving itself during 
the second and third visits.
The insurers  contractor visited three times.  It didnt  diagnose a fault. 
Whilst there is a dispute about exactly what was said on Friday 16 February, I dont  think  the 
details make any difference to the outcome. I say this because Mr A decided  to involve the 
boiler manufacturer rather than to insist on another visit from the insurers  contractor.  Hed 
already emailed his complaint and paid the manufacturer  up- front when the insurers 
contractor rang him the next day. 
It wasnt until the manufacturer visited that the hot water issue was resolved. Mr A believes 
that the manufacturer found that the problem was the flow switch. And I accept his statement 
that the flow switch is in mains water and cannot  be affected by sludge or scale in the 
radiator circuit.
So I can see why Mr A thinks  the insurer shouldve done sooner what  the manufacturer did.
But the hot water fault had been intermittent. And the insurer  didnt have to do repairs when 
there was no breakdown  (or leak). And Im not persuaded that the boiler or system was no 
longer working.  So Im not persuaded that there  had been a breakdown  within the meaning 
of the policy.
Ref: DRN00798254From its report, I think the manufacturer  replaced  the plate heat exchanger, flow switch, flow 
switch adapter,  burner  gasket and diverter valve motor. 
Even if there  had been a breakdown, I wouldnt say the insurer shouldve  replaced all those 
items, bearing in mind  that it didnt  have to do repairs when the boiler  was BER.
And the first item the manufacturer  mentioned in its report was the plate heat exchanger. So 
I find it likely  that the plate heat exchanger was the primary cause  or a main cause of the 
intermittent hot water  issue. 
The manufacturer noted that Mr As system had no filter and that the system water was dirty.  
It said the plate  was slightly blocked.  I cant think of anything that would block it other than 
sludge or scale. 
The insurers  contractor hadnt identified any problems with dirty system water.  But the heat 
exchanger was only slightly blocked.  So I dont  find that the insurers  contractor had fallen 
below a reasonable standard  of care and skill. In any event the policy  didnt cover  sludge 
and scale. So Mr A wouldve had to pay to resolve  that issue   which is what happened.
I note that Mr A has said that following the manufacturers visit he paid for additional work to 
clean the system water  and install a system filter.  
The engineers report said the flow switch  was suspect and its adapter  was broken. Neither  
Mr As complaint of 17 February nor the engineers report  of 24 February  suggests  that the 
insurers contractor had broken the adapter -or left the boiler  with incorrect settings. So I 
dont hold the insurer responsible for those  issues. 
The final response  letter shouldve  been  sent within eight weeks, by about mid-April. Instead, 
at around that time, the insurer apologised  for the delay  and told Mr A of his right to bring his 
complaint to us. 
The final response  letter was dated  2 May. Mr A cancelled the policy on 7 May.  But he 
couldve cancelled it at any time. And indeed he says he cancelled it the day before he 
received the final response letter on 8 May. It was October when he contacted  us. So I dont 
think Mr A was prejudiced  by the lateness  of the final response.
Ive not been persuaded that there  was a breakdown or that the insurer was responsible  for 
giving Mr A the service  he paid the manufacturer for. Overall I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct  Aviva to reimburse Mr A what he paid the manufacturer  or to refund any 
of the premium or to pay him compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Ref: DRN00798255Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0079825