K821x#15complaint
Mr S1 and Mrs K have  complained that Simply  Insurance  Services Limited mis-sold them a
motor trade  policy, which was unfairly avoided after their insurer  accused them of fronting a
policy for their son.
Mr S1 and Mrs K have  been helped in bringing this complaint to us. But for ease, Ill refer to
all actions and comments as being those of Mr S1 or Mrs K.
background
Mr S1 and Mrs K bought a motor  trade  policy through Simply Insurance. After  the policy  had
been in force for a while they added their son (who  Ill refer to as Mr S2) as a named  driver
on the policy. When the policy renewed in 2017  Mr S2 was removed from the policy  as hed
been banned from driving.
When Mrs K was involved in an accident, in her own car, in 2018 the insurer discovered
neither Mr S1 nor Mrs K worked in the motor trade.  They said Mr S1 and Mrs K had
fraudulently taken out the policy, as it was really for their son, and this is known as fronting.
So, it avoided their policy  which means  it cancelled it from the start as though it had never
existed.
Mr S1 and Mrs K said theyd told Simply Insurance the policy was for Mr S2 who was a part 
time mechanic. And had kept the policy in their own names on the advice of
Simply Insurances representative. They said theyd been truthful when renewing the policy
and it was Simply Insurances  fault the policy had been avoided, as Simply Insurance  must
have provided  the wrong information to the insurer.
Simply Insurance didnt think it was to blame,  so Mr S1 and Mrs K brought their complaint  to
us. They  didnt think it was fair that their policy had been avoided or that the insurer hadnt
covered their claim.  Simply  Insurance  said it had sold the policy  in an advised  sale but had
done so correctly.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 February 2020 where I set out what  I 
thought Simply Insurance needed to do to put things right.  In that decision I said:
Simply Insurance sold Mr S1 and Mrs Ks policy in an advised  sale.  That means  it had a duty
to take reasonable steps to ensure  the suitability of its advice, while also providing
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading.
Simply Insurance hasnt been able to provide calls where Mr S1 and Mrs K first brought their
trade policy, but I dont  think  this matters. Thats because the policy  they bought in 2017 was
a new contract, so thats what Ive considered here.
Ive listened to calls between Simply Insurance, Mrs K and Mr S2. During these calls I think
Mr S2 made  it clear  the policy was for his work, with his parents sometimes helping him out.
He says hes the mechanic and his fathers not a trader. He says his father only uses  the car
to get to and from work and Mrs K only uses  it socially  and to help him sometimes. He also
said his mother was on the insurance  as she would drop him off if he needed to pick up a
car.
Simply Insurance checked the occupations  of both Mr S1 and Mrs K with Mr S2 and he
answered this truthfully. Neither occupation he gave  was within  the motor trade. He also
Ref: DRN07027342says the only way his father will work with him is if he has the policy in his name.
Simply Insurance said Mr S1 and Mrs K had also been provided with policy documents
which said they were  involved in the motor  trade.  But given the conversations  theyd had
with Simply Insurance I think they reasonably  expected  the information given to be
acceptable to the insurer, theyd told Simply Insurance  they didnt work in the motor  trade
and been reassured they could keep the policy. So, Im not satisfied sending  the policy
documents removes Simply Insurances  responsibility.
Simply Insurance said Mrs K said she still wanted customers to be able to test drive  the cars.
But I dont think she says here that she works in the motor trade. And Mr S2 had already
given Simply Insurance enough  information  for it to know  the policy was for his work rather
than his parents.
I think Mr S2 provided enough  information in these  calls for Simply Insurance  to have  known
the policy wasnt suitable. So, I dont think at this point  it took reasonable steps to ensure the
suitability of its advice.  Its clear during the renewal  calls Mr S1 and Mrs K would have taken
out private policies  for their own cars if they didnt  have this one. So, Im satisfied this is what
they would  have done. 
If Mrs K had her own policy then her claim would have been considered by that insurer.
However, this hasnt happened  due to Simply Insurances error. So, Ive thought about how
to put Mrs K back in the position she would  have been in if Simply Insurance hadnt  made  an
error. I understand  from Mrs K that her accident  was non-fault.  This means its likely she can
approach the other drivers insurer to claim from them directly. I think  it would be fair and
reasonable for Simply  Insurance to have the opportunity to assist Mrs K in doing  this before
being required to compensate her for any loss she experienced in the accident  as a result  of
its error.
If the other drivers insurer refuses to pay the claim Simply Insurance  should consider her
claim and compensate her in line with settlement shed have received under the terms and
conditions of this policy.
I appreciate the insurers engineer considered the car should be written-off due to the cost of
repairs. But I understand Mrs K has had her car repaired. As the car has been repaired, I
think it would  be fair for Simply Insurance to refund  the cost of those repairs, up to the cars
pre-accident value, if the third party insurer refuses to pay the claim. Mrs K will need to
provide an invoice from the repairing  garage  to show the cost of those repairs. As Mrs K
would have needed to pay an excess,  the excess shown on her policy  can be deducted from
the amount Simply Insurance needs  to pay.
Due to the time theyve  been without the money,  Simply  Insurance  should add interest to
anything it pays Mr S1 and Mrs K at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the
accident to the date it makes payment.
Simply Insurance should  also provide Mr S1 and Mrs K with a letter saying they arent
responsible for the policy being  avoided,  so they can show  this to future  insurers.  I accept
this has caused  them distress and inconvenience as theyve  had a policy  avoided  and had to
pay their claim  themselves. They will also have the inconvenience of having to contact future
insurers with the letter from Simply  Insurance that says the avoidance  wasnt their fault. To
compensate them for this, Simply  Insurance should  also pay Mr S1 and Mrs K £500  for the
unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused  them.
Ref: DRN07027343Mr S1 and Mrs K have  also said their new insurance has cost more due to having  had their
policy avoided. They will be able to contact their new insurer to ask them to re-rate the policy
once they have the letter from Simply Insurance saying it wasnt their fault their policy was
avoided. So, Im not going to instruct Simply  Insurance to do anymore in relation  to this.
Simply Insurance said it would try to negotiate with the other drivers insurer  before  agreeing  
to compensate Mrs K and Mr S1 to the value of their claim.
Mr S1 and Mrs K provided copies of the repair invoices  but didnt agree with my findings.  
They said they hadnt been  able to afford  genuine parts to repair the car and the GAP policy 
they had in place has expired, due to the time this has taken.  They said theyve also had to 
declare the avoidance to other insurers. They  said the car had been categorised as a write-
off by the insurer, so as compensation  for everything thats happened they should receive 
the value of the car immediately before the accident, as this is what the insurance policy 
would have provided. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to depart 
from my provisional findings.  
The terms and conditions  of most  policies we see allow insurers to settle  the claim by 
repairing or replacing a vehicle  or paying a cash amount in lieu of repairs. Ive taken account 
of Mr S1s and Mrs Ks point that their only option  was to repair their car using  cheaper  parts.  
But Im satisfied that in this particular case the loss theyve experienced is the cost of their 
repairs. And even though  the insurers engineer suggested that the car should be written-off, 
the insurer would still have had the option to pay to repair the car under the policy.  
Ive also considered Mr S1 and Mrs Ks point that this has been going on for some time and 
theyve had to declare  the avoidance to other  insurers. However, they will be able to provide 
their new insurer with a copy of the letter  saying  the avoidance wasnt  their fault and ask for 
an adjustment. 
So, I remain  satisfied that the fair and reasonable outcome is for Simply Insurance to 
reimburse Mr S1 and Mrs K for their repairs, if theyre unable  to recover  the amount for them  
directly from the other insurer.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I uphold this complaint and 
require Simply Insurance Services Limited  to:
Assist  Mr S1 and Mrs K in claiming directly from the other drivers insurer;
If the other drivers insurer refuses to pay the claim  Simply  Insurance  should
            compensate Mr S1 and Mrs K by refunding  the cost of their repairs;
Simply Insurance can deduct  the excess set out on their policy  from the amount it 
pays;
Add interest to the settlement amount at 8% simple per year from the date of the
            accident  to the date it makes payment1;
Ref: DRN07027344Write  a letter to Mr S1 and Mrs K to say they werent at fault for having  the policy
Avoided;
Pay Mr S1 and Mrs K £500  for their distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S1 and Mrs K 
to accept or reject my decision before 230April 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
1 If Simply Insurance Services  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S1 and Mrs K how much  its taken off. It should  also give Mr S1 and Mrs K a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN0702734