K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Topaz  Finance Limited sold them  a mortgage to consolidate 
their debts when they could have got a loan. Mr and Mrs H also say that Topaz repossessed 
and sold their house at an undervalue. Mr and Mrs H want Topaz to write off the shortfall.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage in February  2007  following a recommendation by a 
broker. Mr and Mrs H say that the recommendation of the mortgage by the broker  was 
unsuitable as it involved debt consolidation and they could have  been  offered alternative 
lending which wouldnt have involved more borrowing  on their property.
Mr and Mrs H had difficulty meeting the mortgage  payments and Topaz  instructed solicitors  
and the property was taken into possession  by Topaz on 9 July 2014. Mr and Mrs H say that 
before this, they had the property on the market for £120,000 and had an offer of £100,000. 
Topaz sold the property  for £86,000 which left a shortfall of £16,806.23. Mr and Mrs H 
believe that the property was sold at an undervalue.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He felt that as the 
mortgage was sold by a broker and not by Topaz that he couldnt  uphold that part of the 
complaint. Our adjudicator also felt that the evidence  showed that Topaz  acted to obtain the 
best possible price  for the property. Mr and Mrs H disagree saying in summary that the 
broker is the same company as the lender. Mr and Mrs H also say that they cannot  believe 
that their property would  fall in value so much  over such a short period.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H are in the unfortunate position of both losing their house  and having  to meet a 
shortfall after Topaz sold their house. This mortgage  was recommended  by a broker and Mr 
and Mrs H took a mortgage out with a lender. Neither the broker nor original lender was 
Topaz. This was set out in a letter to Mr and Mrs H of 9 December 2014 when Topaz said 
that it didnt broker  the mortgage nor was it the original lender.  In her letter to us Mrs H says 
that Topaz,  the original lender and the broker  are the same  company. I checked on the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  website.  This shows three different companies with 
three different Companies House numbers. The broker seems to have  deregistered from the 
FCA in 2008.  For that reason in 2014 Topaz  advised that if Mr and Mrs H wanted to pursue 
the mis-selling claim it should look to the Financial Services  Compensation Scheme.  So, as 
the evidence is that the broker and Topaz arent  the same company  and as Topaz didnt  sell 
this mortgage,  I cant  fairly  uphold  the complaint that Topaz mis-sold this mortgage to Mr and 
Mrs H.
The other complaint  relates to the price realised by Topaz for the property. Mr and Mrs H say 
that they got valuations from the same  agents as Topaz who valued the property  at 
£115,000 and wonder  how a property could lose £25,000 in value in 6 months. Mr and Mrs H 
had the property up for sale and got and accepted  an offer of £100,000 although the sale fell 
through. Topaz says that it got a number  of valuations, actively marketed  the property, 
Ref: DRN01086082including 21 viewings  and got and accepted an offer of £86,000 which was slightly above the 
valuations which valued the property was worth £85,000. 
Clearly the market didnt  value  the property above £100,000 as the recorded  offers  by 
intending purchasers were £78,000, £80,000, £85,000 and eventually £86,000. This level of 
offers would indicate that the earlier valuation on behalf of Mr and Mrs H was too optimistic. 
There is no indication that if Topaz  held out for offers over £100,000 that it could be 
achieved. Also the longer the sale process  continued the greater the interest  that would 
accumulate on Mr and Mrs Hs loan which would  be to Mr and Mrs Hs detriment. I realise 
that Mr and Mrs H hoped for the house  to be sold at a higher price. But I cant fairly say that 
Topaz didnt achieve  the best price  possible in the circumstances. So, for the above reasons  
I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 May 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0108608