K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Lloyds Bank PLC, trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G), mis-
sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy. To keep things simple, Ill refer 
mainly to Lloyds.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs L bought  the policy  in 2007  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  These  events 
are therefore  from a considerable time ago and Ive used the best information we have still 
available about  the type of PPI policy she bought and what we know  about its rules and 
conditions. Ive also used  my considerable experience of PPI and the types of policy 
normally used by Lloyds  to help me think about the issues relevant in this case.
It seems  Mrs L applied  for the mortgage and PPI policy in a branch. The policy provided 
cover for Mrs L for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  around £313  a month  towards Mrs Ls mortgage balance  in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £29.50 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs L was employed  in warehousing as a manager. She told us she was entitled 
to between 3  6 months sick pay with her job as well as redundancy protection and has said 
she was in good health. 
Mrs L mentioned two specific issues Ill address first. The first is that she intended, at the 
time of the sale, to migrate  from being employed to being self-employed. She implies this 
would have made claiming on the PPI difficult.  However, the documentation Ive seen shows  
no such intention and Mrs L herself ticked a box to confirm she was indeed employed.  Her 
representatives told us she became  self-employed  in 2012, but this is some  5 years after the 
PPI sale. Im afraid I cant  therefore agree this point is relevant  to the mis-sale allegation.
The next point  is that suffered from depression. But again, this illness  post-dates  the PPI 
sale by several years,  so it isnt relevant to the policy being allegedly mis-sold either.
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2014. Mrs Ls 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mrs Ls 
representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ls 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mrs L about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN04504902The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs L and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs L received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ls. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls complaint.
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2014. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2007 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2000. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
Ref: DRN04504903a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN04504904-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs L suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs L and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs L know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. From the point of sale 
documentation Ive seen, Mrs L had a discussion about her insurance  requirements and 
what might  happen  if she became  unable to meet her mortgage repayments. She filled out a 
specific and separate  application form relating to the PPI. And, as this was entitled Payment 
Protection Plus  I think  it was clear enough  what the insurance was for and that she had a 
choice about whether  or not to take it out. The fact she had chosen  it  and that it was 
clearly described as optional - was also set out on Mrs Ls Mortgage  Offer. This is an 
important document  which I think would have  been  one she would have wanted to read 
through carefully.
So, taking everything  into account, I think theres  reliable evidence  Mrs L knew  the policy 
was optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure.  
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds concedes that advice was provided  during this sale and this corresponds with my 
experience. This means Lloyds had to advise Mrs L with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given her needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mrs L. The adviser had information  about some  of Mrs Ls financial circumstances  as part 
of the mortgage  application. But although  a demands and needs statement was completed 
to try and establish whether Mrs L had a need for the policy   by asking questions about  her 
wider circumstances  such as any health issues and existing means  I dont think it did 
enough to ensure the PPI was suitable, for example, whether she was affected by any policy 
exclusions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs L given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN04504905Nevertheless, while Im not persuaded Lloyds  did all it should have done to make sure the 
policy was suitable  for Mrs L, I do think its more  likely than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs L met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs L had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  that Mrs Ls ability  to continue  to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if Mrs L was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the sick pay benefits or 
redundancy she says she would  have  been  entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for her;
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for her. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Ls employment or occupation which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  She hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical conditions she had 
at the point of sale that could affect her ability to claim. There  were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mrs L be disabled or unemployed 
for 60 days before she could  make a claim and the fact the policy would  only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mrs Ls circumstances, including her employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  she might expect to provide an income during the policys 
60-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to her home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mrs L be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs L sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs L was given a broad description  of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs L was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs L would have taken  out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be. 
As I said,  the cost of £29.50 per month  was also included in her Mortgage Offer as Optional 
Insurance.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mrs 
L agreed to take out the policy.  Thats not to say she wasnt  told, but overall, having 
Ref: DRN04504906considered the parties representations about  what happened, while  Im satisfied the policy 
was a suitable recommendation for Mrs L, Im not persuaded  Lloyds did enough to present 
information about the policy it was recommending  in a way that was fair and reasonable to 
her. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mrs L all of the information she needed about the policy  
to make an informed decision about  whether to follow  the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ls representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ls representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs L about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ls representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs L has suggested. And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mrs L? To what extent did Mrs L suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs L. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs L suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mrs L would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs L, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs L has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mrs L would  have acted  differently,  or whether she would have taken out the policy  in any 
event.
Ref: DRN04504907Mrs L says she wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes  I should  presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs L had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ls circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs L was given about the cost was clear. But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and 
exclusions potentially wasnt as clear  as it should  have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mrs L would get back in return 
in the event she made a successful claim  only that her mortgage  repayments would be 
covered. I therefore think its unlikely  Mrs Ls expectations  about what the policy would  pay 
in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet her mortgage payment) was 
significantly different to what the policy  actually did. Possibly the most significant  differences  
between what Mrs L thought she had bought and what she actually bought were the 
following:
The policy excluded claims relating to certain  pre-existing  medical  conditions;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs L 
wasnt a permanent employee;
A potential requirement in the policy rules that in order  to be eligible for a disability 
claim  Mrs L be unable to do her own job, a similar  job or any paid work which  her 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage. 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs L from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs L was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mrs L would  have been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs L didnt have any 
Ref: DRN04504908pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think she had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
From the information I have, the policy didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or 
place any additional  restrictions  or more onerous  evidential requirements in the event of a 
claim on those  grounds than would have applied  to any other  disability claim. Even so, I 
think its unlikely Mrs L would have  expected  to make  a disability claim on the policy without  
first providing some  evidence  to support that claim.
If Mrs L had known she might only be able to claim for disability if she was unable to do both 
her job and any similar gainful  occupation (or similar) which  in the insurers view she might 
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into her thinking about what she would 
have done. And I accept  it may have given  her pause for thought  although its possible she 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mrs L was unable (through  disability)  to 
carry on her own occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar  
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  highlighted  enough  that Mrs L that any claim she made would  be 
limited to a 12-month  period. This may have  differed  from what she expected  and might  
have hoped for  but she didnt have any means to fall back  on. In those circumstances, I 
consider it likely Mrs L would still have thought a policy that paid up to 12 monthly  mortgage  
payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her manage  the consequences  
should Mrs L be unable  to work  in the circumstances covered by the policy. The policy 
allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce  her outgoings  at a difficult and 
uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs L would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs L was made  redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs L 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ls representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs L would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs L 
Ref: DRN04504909found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs L in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mrs L compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs L thinks  Lloyds  misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mrs L, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
in 2007 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs L and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs L in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0450490