K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say they were mis-sold a regular premium payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) have taken  responsibility for the sale.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a joint mortgage  at the end of 1992. Around the same  time they took 
out a regular premium  PPI policy to cover their mortgage  payments if they were  unable to 
work due to accident or sickness or lost their jobs. Lloyds have taken  responsibility  for the 
sale so to keep  things simple I have  referred to Lloyds as the business  who sold the policy 
throughout my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  she didnt think there  
was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented  as optional and thought 
that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M disagree. They  say they werent  given much  information on the policy and it 
wasnt suitable as it wouldnt have covered them in retirement.  
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
The sale took place  over 25 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information 
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information 
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs M cant remember being  given  any information on the policy but remember 
querying the PPI premiums on their bank statement and think they must have agreed to 
keep the policy over the phone. And Lloyds havent  been able to provide us with any of the 
documents from the time of the sale or confirm how the policy  was sold.  So I dont know 
exactly what was discussed  about PPI or how it was presented. 
But from what I know about all the different  ways  Lloyds sold PPI during the period 
Mr and Mrs M were  sold the policy, I think its likely that it wouldve made them aware  that 
PPI was optional  and I think PPI wouldve been added  to their account  because they chose 
to take it. 
And because the mortgage and PPI payments are shown  as being taken separately on their 
bank statements and theres no mention of PPI on their mortgage agreement I think its likely 
they wouldve  understood the PPI was separate from their mortgage. I wouldve thought that 
if PPI was compulsory  it would be on their mortgage agreement. 
Ref: DRN04842992To be fair to Mr and Mrs M I am treating the sale of PPI as if it was an advised sale. What  
this means is that Lloyds  not only had to provide  information about PPI in a clear, fair and 
not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs M could make an informed choice about buying PPI. 
It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend PPI that the policy  was suitable to their 
needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds  did take all the steps it shouldve.  But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs M for the following reasons:
From  what we know about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  I think they wouldve been 
eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like they wouldve been caught  by any of the 
main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made it difficult 
to make a successful claim.
I understand Mr and Mrs M are concerned  that the policy wouldnt have run the length of 
the mortgage into their retirement.  But at the point the policy  was sold there was enough 
time for them to benefit from the policy before they retired  and the policy  could be 
cancelled at any time and was in fact cancelled in 1996.
Mr and Mrs M cant remember how much sick pay they were entitled  to but say they had 
savings they could use to make  their mortgage  payments  if they were unable  to work. 
But the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and savings and for potentially 
longer covering them for up to 12 months if they couldnt work due to accident  or 
sickness or lost their jobs. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs M in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs M at the 
time. 
I also need to consider  whether Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs M information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out.
I dont know if Lloyds  did give all the information  as it shouldve. But for the same reasons 
that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr and Mrs M have told us about their 
circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if theyd been 
given all the proper  information.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds  expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr and Mrs M about 
that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN04842993my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 October  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0484299