K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained about windscreen  repairs  carried  out to his car. Mr R made  a claim
under his car insurance policy with Admiral  Insurance  Company Limited.
All reference to Admiral  includes its authorised  agents.
background
Mr R bought a car insurance policy with Admiral. His policy included windscreen damage
cover. Mr R made  a claim to Admiral and in February 2017 an agent of Admirals  replaced
his windscreen.
Up until October 2017 Mr R said he used his car only for very short  journeys. But in October
2017 his travel increased due to a family illness. His car was due a service  and around the
same time he noticed a leak in the passenger foot well.
A dealership garage investigated and said the leak happened because the windscreen
hadnt been correctly fitted.  So Mr R contacted Admiral.
Admiral said its agent didnt find the leak had been caused by the fitting of the windscreen.
Mr R provided  further information from the dealership garage which he said showed the leak
was caused by the incorrect  fitting of the windscreen. But Admiral didnt uphold  Mr Rs
complaint.
Mr R told us he was provided  with a courtesy car until December 2017 by the garage that
had inspected his car. He bought a second  car as a stop gap in April 2018.  He provided
independent reports  to support his complaint that the windscreen fitment  was the cause of
the damage to his car.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 July 2018. I thought on balance  Admirals agent hadnt
properly fitted  the windscreen. So I intended to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I thought Admiral
should do the following:
Repair the water damaged area of Mr Rs car and correctly  refit his windscreen.
Reimburse Mr R for any financial  loss caused by having  a replacement car from
the date his car was taken to the dealership garage  to the date Admiral  repairs
his car  subject to reasonable proof.
Reimburse Mr R for the costs of any of the reports  he provided  subject to
reasonable proof.
Pay Mr R £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Admiral accepted my provisional decision  subject to clarifying  reasonable costs.  
Admiral didnt repair Mr Rs car. Instead it settled  Mr Rs claim by paying him a total loss 
settlement on 7 January 2019.
Mr R didnt feel that £300 compensation fairly reflected the level of stress and inconvenience 
Admiral caused him. He provided further information  to support his claim for financial loss.
Admiral agreed to meet some of Mr Rs claim for losses. 
Ref: DRN03197922I issued a second provisional decision on 22 January 2019. I thought Admiral should meet 
more than it agreed  but not all - of Mr Rs claim  for financial loss.
Mr R is unhappy that I havent  recommended all of his losses  are met by Admiral.  He feels 
Admiral should pay him compensation  in the region of £3,000  to reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused him. 
Admiral doesnt agree  it should meet all the losses I recommended  in my second provisional 
decision. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Admiral accepted my first provisional decision to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. The remaining 
issue is to decide  on what is fair and reasonable financial loss which  Admiral  should 
reimburse Mr R for. This is what my second  provisional decision focused on.
Ive considered Mr R and Admirals further  comments. However, my final decision remains 
along the lines of my second provisional decision.  Ill explain  why. 
In April 2018 Mr R bought a second  car to mitigate his circumstances. I think its fair and
reasonable that overall Admiral should compensate Mr R for the difference it cost him to run
the second car - compared  to what he would have paid in any event to run the car that had
windscreen damage (the first car).
In July 2018 Mr R explained  that he had to make  regular journeys to visit his mother  who
was unwell. This involved a four hour round trip from his home  to the airport.  He said he lives
in an area that has next to no public transport  availability. Mr R feels  the compensation of
£300 doesnt reflect the inconvenience and stress being without a car caused him. He said
he had to rely on lifts between January 2018 and April 2018  to get to work, to the airport,  and
for medical  appointments  as he was very ill for about a month during this time.
In August  2018  Mr R provided a receipt  from April 2018 for repairs  carried  out on the second
car in order  for it to remain roadworthy.  Mr R paid £256.95 for replacement brakes and tyres.
Admiral has agreed to pay these costs.  He also paid for six months tax from April to 
September 2018 which Admiral has agreed  to pay.
In September  2018 Mr R explained that he would need to pay for another  six months tax for
the second car by 30 September 2018. Admiral  has agreed to pay these costs up until the
date Mr R sells his second  car. However, in response to my second provisional decision,  
Admiral says that if Mr R now keeps his second car beyond the six months from September  
2018  it wont  continue to cover  any costs  to tax Mr Rs second  car after that. As Admiral  
paid Mr R a total loss settlement on 7 January 2019,  I think  this is fair. If Mr R sells his car 
before the six months end, Admiral  said it will cover the pro rata amount subject to DVLA  
proof.
Ref: DRN03197923Mr R said he cancelled his insurance  for the first car on 26 June 2018.  He began  paying
insurance for the second car in April 2018.  Mr R wants Admiral to reimburse him for the
period of time he paid insurance  for the first car from November 2017 to June 2018.
I understand why Mr R feels Admiral should reimburse him for the insurance he paid for
while he wasnt able to use his first car. But Admiral has agreed to pay for loss of use from
1 January 2018 to 15 April 2018 totalling  £1060. Mr R had use of a courtesy  car until the end
of December 2017. So I dont think Admiral should reimburse Mr R for the full insurance
premium he paid for the first car from November 2017 until he cancelled it. I think  a fairer
outcome is as follows:
For the period  of time Mr R paid to tax and insure both cars, I think Admiral should pay Mr R
the full amount he paid for the second car.
For the period  of time Mr R paid tax and insurance  for only the second car  if this was more
expensive than it was to tax and insure his first car  then Admiral should pay the difference.
This means  that Mr R will have paid what he would have  paid to tax and insure his first car.
This is what  would  have happened had Admiral properly repaired his car.
In October  2018 Admiral  agreed to pay the additional costs  to tax Mr Rs second car. 
Admiral has offered a global payment of £200 in respect of any difference in insurance. If 
Mr R can provide proof the difference to insure the second car over the first car would have 
cost him more than this, Admiral said it will consider this. I think  this is fair.
Admiral has agreed to pay compensation of £300.  And its agreed to pay Mr R £300 for the 
cost of the independent reports. Admiral  said it will pay Mr R the difference  between the 
purchase price and sale price of the second  car when Mr R comes  to sell it. It agreed to pay 
interest on the refunded sums and difference in payments from the dates Mr R originally paid 
them to the date it refunds him at 8% simple interest  a year.  Interest is excluded  from the 
loss of use payment   as Mr R hasnt lost interest  on this payment.
Our investigator tried to speak to Mr R in early  November  2018 to discuss Admirals reply,
but wasnt successful.
In November 2018 Mr R told us that unfortunately  his mother had passed  away on
26 October 2018. He said he was only able to see her in time because  he hired a car and
drove overnight on 25 October  2018. The journey was almost 750 miles (one way) and he
didnt feel he could  rely on the second  car to complete the journey.
Mr R wants Admiral to reimburse him for the costs of the hire car and for parking the second
car. He said if hed had his own car he would have  been  able to use it for the journey.
Mr R provided  a receipt for hire car totalling £278.83. He provided a further  receipt for
parking charges from 25 October 2018  to 12 November 2018.  This came to £92. And he
provided a taxi receipt for £20 along with proof he paid road tax for a further six months for
the second car in September 2018.
Mr R explained that he collected a hire car from the nearest airport  to where  he lives. He
wasnt able to park the second car at the airport due to the short  notice. So he parked it in
the city from 25 October 2018 to 12 November 2018. When  he returned  to the airport,  he got
a taxi from there to where he parked his (second) car.
Ref: DRN03197924In December 2018 Admiral said it wasnt prepared to cover the recent  hire car, taxi and
parking costs Mr R claimed for. It said that the hire car appears  to be only one way. While it
understands this was a difficult time for Mr R, it believes he would have made the same
choices for travel even  if hed had use of the first car.
In my second provisional decision  I thought  Mr Rs claim for these costs was reasonable. 
Had he had use of his first car, I think he would have used it to drive  overnight.  So he 
wouldnt have had to pay to park the second  car and hire a car. Mr R was then going to have 
to pay either  to travel back by hire car or plane: either way I think its unlikely that he 
wouldve had to do this if he was using his first car. As Mr R is only claiming  for one way, I 
think his claim  for travel costs here is reasonable. So I think  Admiral  should pay Mr R a total 
of £390.83. (£278.83 + £20 + £92).
Admiral doesnt agree.  It said because Mr R didnt have time to arrange parking at the airport 
 this would  have been the situation regardless of what  car he was driving. 
But I dont think thats true. The point  Mr R made is that if he had use of his own car, he 
wouldnt have needed a hire car. He didnt believe his stop  gap car was reliable enough to 
make the journey. But on balance his newer  first car would have.  So if Mr R had use of his 
first car, he wouldnt have had the costs of parking it while  collecting a hire car. So I think its 
reasonable for Admiral to cover these costs. 
Admiral said the total loss settlement  it paid Mr R for his car was £1,000 more than the 
original purchase price paid for it. It said it paid this amount due to the issues with the case. 
And it covered the garages  storage  costs  too. These came to £3,210.85. I havent  
investigated whether  the total loss settlement  Admiral paid to Mr R was fair or not as this 
doesnt form part of his complaint. As Admiral  accepted my findings in my first provisional 
decision that it was responsible for failing to properly fit a windscreen  to Mr Rs car, I think it 
was responsible for any storage costs  by the holding garage in any event.
Mr R said he felt Admiral  should reimburse  him for the full price he paid to buy the second
car  as he said this was much cheaper  than if hed chosen to hire a car for the same  period
instead. Mr R paid £1,390 for the second  car in April 2018.  He provided an example quote
from a hire car company - for a car similar to his first car - showing hire costs  of £672.84 for
a month. He said due to the remote area where he lives, he will have further inconvenience
and time in selling  the second  car. He feels he should be compensated for this.
Mr R said he was without use of a car from 26 November 2017 to 15 April 2018. So he didnt
agree the loss of use award was fair.
Admiral says that Mr R could have mitigated his circumstances by having his car repaired 
instead of buying a stop gap car.
Mr R told us in an email  dated 30 December 2017  that he had use of a courtesy car but
that the garage had understandably asked for it back. He said; I will then be without a car.
So I think Mr R had use of a car until the end of December 2017   based on what he told us.
In January 2019 Mr R provided further  receipts for what he says he had to pay when he took
the second car for an MOT in December 2018. These are for a filter guard at £19, a
thermostat kit at £62.49  and a window switch at £18. Mr R wants  Admiral to reimburse him
for these  costs and for the cost of the MOT.
Ref: DRN03197925Admiral said it will pay the costs of the MOT in December 2018   but it isnt prepared to
cover the costs Mr R paid for parts for the second car in December 2018  and January  2019.
Admiral said it tried to contact Mr R several times after I issued my first provisional decision 
to make arrangements to inspect Mr Rs car  but was unable to speak to him. It says it 
could have resolved the matter sooner. Admiral says Mr R would have had to pay for an 
MOT for his first car in any event. And it had paid a settlement to him for his first car by 7 
January 2019.
Mr R said he wouldnt have had the cost of an MOT if he had his first car. In my second 
provisional decision I said Id be happy to consider any evidence Mr R had to show  this - as 
his first car was five years  old. Mr R hasnt provided  any evidence   but hes explained that 
he had a plan whereby  he would  receive free service and MOT  for his first car. 
However, as Admiral has agreed to cover the cost of the MOT in December 2018, I think  this 
is reasonable. I think Admiral tried to resolve the issue with repairs to Mr Rs car between 
July 2018 and January 2019. And I cant speculate that Mr R is worse off as theres no way 
of knowing that his first car wouldnt have required some work  which Mr R would  have 
been responsible for - in order to pass its MOT. So on balance I dont think  Admiral  should 
pay the most  recent costs for parts Mr R is claiming  for.
I understand that Admiral has caused Mr R considerable  distress  and inconvenience. And I 
appreciate how upset he feels about  the way it dealt with his claim and his complaint. Mr R 
feels a fairer compensation award should be in the region of £3,000. I know  that Mr R was 
dealing with his complaint  at what was a very difficult time personally for him. 
However, on balance,  I think the fairest outcome is for Admiral to follow my 
recommendations in line with my second  provisional  decision. I think  its also realistic to say 
that even if Mr R had his first car during this whole period, on balance  its possible that he 
would have had some additional maintenance and running costs  even if it was newer than 
his second car.
Admiral said it will pay the difference in the purchase price and selling price of Mr Rs second 
car  and pay interest at 8% on the whole amount from the date Mr R bought  the second car 
to the date he sells it. But as its now paid Mr R a total loss settlement for his first car, it 
doesnt know if Mr R intends  to keep his second  car indefinitely or still intends  to sell it. So 
its asked that Mr R let it know if he intends to keep his second car  or if he intends to sell it. 
If Mr R intends  to keep the second car, Admiral  says it will pay interest on the purchase price  
of the second  car from the date he paid for it to the date he tells it he intends to keep it. I 
think Admirals  proposal here is reasonable in order to bring this matter to a conclusion  and 
mitigate further loss all round. Its for Mr R to let Admiral know  what he decides.
In addition to the £300  compensation, I think overall  this is a fair outcome to resolve  Mr Rs 
complaint. So my recommendations to put things right are in line with my second provisional  
decision and set out below.
Ref: DRN03197926my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr R the difference in the purchase  price and selling price of the second  car 
subject to reasonable proof of sale. Admiral  will pay interest on the purchase  
price from the date Mr R bought the second car to the date he sells it. If Mr R now 
intends to keep the second car, Admiral will instead pay Mr R interest on the 
purchase price from the date he bought  it to the date Mr R tells it he intends to 
keep it.
Pay Mr R £126.50 which is the amount  Mr R paid to tax the second  car in April 
2018 for six months.
Pay Mr R the appropriate  tax amount from September 2018 to the date Mr R sells 
the second car - as above  - subject to any refund he receives  from the DVLA. 
The most Admiral will pay is the six months from September 2018.  
Pay Mr R £200 as a global  payment  to cover the difference in insurance costs
between Mr Rs first and second car. If Mr R can provide  evidence  to show  the
difference in price to insure the second car when he stopped  paying  insurance for 
the first car is more, Admiral will consider  this.
Pay Mr R £256.95 for the repair costs in April 2018.
Pay Mr Rs claimed costs for his travel  from 25 October 2018  to 12 November 
2018 totalling £390.83.
Pay Mr R £300 for the assessor reports and;
Pay Mr R for the cost of an MOT from December 2018  subject to reasonable 
proof.
Admiral will pay interest on the above sums at a rate of 8% simple interest a year 
from the date Mr R originally paid to the date it pays him.
and;
Pay Mr R £300 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Pay Mr R £1,060  for loss of use from January  2018 to April 2018 when he bought  
the second car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr R accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr R a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0319792