K822xcomplaint
Mrs Hs complained about the way Ageas Insurance Limited handled a claim she made on 
her motor insurance policy after she was involved in an accident. 
Mrs Hs son has helped her in bringing this complaint  to us. But for ease Ill refer to all 
actions and comments as being those of Mrs H. 
background 
Mrs H said she was involved in an accident, in November  2017, when another driver 
undertook her car and pulled into her path. She said the cars trailer hit the front of her car. 
Mrs H said the other  driver and his passengers were aggressive and intimidating and a 
police offer pulled over to assist. The police officer reported the accident to Ageas and 
arranged for Mrs H to be taken home. 
Mrs H had her car repaired and said she assumed the matter had been resolved as she 
hadnt heard  anything. However  as she was anxious she asked her son to call Ageas to find 
out what was happening.  Ageas said the claim  was still open and it was looking to settle  it on 
a 50/50 basis,  which meant both Mrs H and the other driver shared responsibility  for what  
had happened. 
Mrs H complained to Ageas as she thought the accident was the other drivers fault. She 
thought Ageas should have asked the police officer for a witness  statement, or to comment 
on who was at fault. She also said Ageas  didnt  keep her updated about the claim and shed 
only been asked  for her version of events eight months after the accident. She said her 
premium had increased as a result and shed been  caused considerable anxiety.
Ageas said it had listened to the call where  the police office reported the accident and he hadnt 
seen the accident. It also said he thought both cars had driven into each other. So Ageas 
thought it was reasonable to hold both parties responsible.  Ageas  said it took some time get 
hold of the correct  insurer  and didnt  contact Mrs H during that time as it didnt  have an update  
for her. It said once it knew the other driver was holding Mrs H at fault it needed to get her 
account of what  had happened. Ageas added that it had appointed solicitors to issue  court 
proceedings against the other driver  and Mrs H might need to go to court to help with this. It 
also said it was likely  the claim  would  affect her premium  unless  it was settled as non-fault. 
Mrs H remained  unhappy and brought her complaint to us. She said Ageas had:
Not investigated the claim  properly  or resolved it satisfactorily.
Been poor in its communication and not taken her age or physical condition into account.
Caused her premiums  to increase  by over £100 by recording the accident as a fault claim.  
Our investigator split Mrs Hs complaint to look into the premium increase separately.  In 
considering the rest of the complaint he thought  Ageas had looked to settle the claim fairly 
and in line with the policy terms. However he thought it should  have  communicated  better 
with Mrs H, as its own notes  said she needed  updates that she didnt get. He asked Ageas 
to pay Mrs H £50 compensation. 
Ageas accepted our investigators  view but Mrs H didnt. She asked for an ombudsman to 
review her complaint. 
Ref: DRN05453612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been split into two parts. That means Im not going to comment on 
whether the premium increase was fair in this decision. 
The terms and conditions  of most  policies we see allow the insurer  to take over and defend 
or settle  a claim as it sees  fit. This means Ageas might make  a decision Mrs H disagrees 
with, but the policy allows  it to. My role is to see that its done so fairly and reasonably.  
Ive looked at Ageas communication with the other  drivers  insurer  and can see it tried to 
hold the other driver at fault. Where its one persons word against another  its not 
uncommon for a claim to be settled 50/50. That doesnt mean  Ageas thinks Mrs H was 
partially at fault for the accident, only that it didnt think  it would be likely to prove  it in court.  I 
can understand why Mrs H thinks Ageas should  have asked the police officer  to comment.  
But he wasnt a witness to the accident so its unlikely Ageas would have been able to rely 
on his statement in court. 
I appreciate Mrs Hs strength of feeling that she wasnt to blame. But in the absence  of 
witnesses or CCTV I dont think Ageas decision was unreasonable.  I say that because 
Ageas didnt think it could prove she didnt share any responsibility for the accident in court. 
Ive also looked  at the time it took Ageas to deal with the claim. I can see from Ageas 
records that the other driver was driving a rented vehicle. Ageas wrote  to the hire company 
straight away and also sent two chasers  to that company. The hire company  replied  in March 
2018 to say they werent responsible for the insurance as their driver had his own policy.  
Ageas contacted the other drivers  insurer in April 2018. The other drivers insurer  responded 
a couple of weeks later and Ageas  provided the information it requested in May 2018
In June 2018 the other drivers insurer wrote to Ageas  and said its driver didnt accept 
responsibility for the accident. That meant on 25 July 2018 Ageas asked Mrs H to provide 
her version of what had happened.  I understand Ageas  only knew it needed this once  the 
other drivers  insurer  said Mrs H was to blame for the accident. I can understand why Mrs H 
would have liked to have provided this earlier, but I think its most likely Ageas didnt want  
her to spend time producing information that it might not later need. 
On 25 October 2018 Ageas let Mrs H know it had instructed  solicitors  to recover  money  that 
the other drivers insurer  was responsible for paying.  I can understand why the thought of 
going to court was alarming to Mrs H. But as the other drivers insurer  had stopped 
responding then it was reasonable for Ageas to this step to recover  the money  it had paid 
out for her claim. In fact, if Ageas wasnt able to recover any money from the other drivers 
insurer then the whole  amount would likely be recorded against Mrs H. Recovering the 
money would  also allow Ageas  to close the claim. Im pleased  to see it also intended to 
include a claim for Mrs Hs uninsured  losses on her behalf. These are losses she incurred 
that arent covered by her policy  and so arent Ageas responsibility to pay. 
Ref: DRN05453613Claims where both parties think the other is the blame can take some time to resolve.  I can 
understand why this caused Mrs H anxiety, but I dont think  Ageas is to blame for that. 
Unfortunately the other drivers insurer didnt respond quickly but Im satisfied Ageas did 
send chasers to that insurer to try to get a response. Overall,  I dont  think Ageas 
unnecessarily delayed the claim. 
Ageas said it didnt contact Mrs H because it didnt have any updates  to give her. However,  I 
can see in July 2018 Mrs Hs son made  Ageas aware that she was worrying  about what was 
happening and would  like to be updated. As shed made that request and let Ageas know  it 
was causing her worry, I think it should  have done more to let her know  what  was going on. 
Ageas has agreed  to pay £50 to compensate for this and I think  this amount is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
In summary,  I understand the whole situation  has caused Mrs H upset at a time when  shes 
also been unwell.  However, I think Ageas made a fair and reasonable decision that it was 
entitled to make. It should pay her £50 compensation as it should  have communicated  with 
her better once it knew she was worrying about not knowing what was going on. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance  Limited  to 
pay Mrs H £50 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
It should pay this within 28 days of us letting it know shes accepted my decision. If it pays  
later than this it should add interest  at a rate of 8% simple from the date of my decision to 
the date it makes payment. 1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If Ageas considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs H a certificate showing  
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN0545361