K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service provided  by British Gas Insurance Limited under the 
HomeCare policy he had with them.  
background
Mr S had a British Gas HomeCare policy, which  included an annual boiler service. When  
arranging the 2018 boiler service, British Gas cancelled  the appointment three times. This 
short notice caused Mr S frustration and inconvenience, as hed also taken time off work for 
one of the appointments.
British Gas offered  Mr S £30 as a gesture  of goodwill, in light of the cancelled appointments. 
They say they sent this to Mr S by cheque, but he says never  received it. He contacted  
British Gas, who re-sent the cheque and increased the offer to £40. As Mr S said he still 
hadnt received  it, British  Gas sent it a third time and increased the offer to £50. Mr S says 
he never received  this cheque either.  
Mr S brought his complaint to our service  where  our investigator looked into it. She checked  
British Gas was using the correct address  which Mr S confirmed. The investigator  felt 
British Gas had done  enough  by sending the cheque  on a number of occasions. Mr S 
disagreed. He said he still hadnt  received the cheque, and he asked for further 
compensation. So the complaint was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im partially upholding it. 
I appreciate Mr S must  have been  frustrated when the three appointments were cancelled  
and rearranged by British  Gas. And its unfortunate  this occurred at short  notice  I 
understand this wouldve been  inconvenient  for Mr S. Taking into account the impact the 
experience had on Mr S, I think the £50 now being  offered by British  Gas is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand British  Gas sent Mr S a cheque on three occasions before  the case came to 
our service.  Mr S said he didnt receive any of these cheques  and British Gas have said 
the cheques were never cashed. 
British Gas have  also told us they sent a cheque to Mr S on two further occasions, while the 
complaint has been with our service. Again, Mr S has said he hasnt received these. 
Ive seen nothing  which sheds any light on why the cheque isnt being received Mr S. There 
may have  been  problems  with the postal  service. But if there have been, this isnt something 
I can hold British Gas responsible for. 
However, I do think British Gas could have  done  more here. As it was clear Mr S was having 
problems receiving the cheque, I think its fair and reasonable for British Gas to issue  Mr S 
the cheque via recorded delivery. This would be sufficient, in my mind, to show  they had 
fulfilled their obligations around  ensuring  their gesture of goodwill payment gets to Mr S. And 
it would  enable them to see where  the cheque had been delivered  should  Mr S say he still 
hasnt received it. 
Ref: DRN04721732Mr S feels  he is due further compensation for the overall experience hes had with British  
Gas. As Ive explained  above, I think £50 is fair and reasonable in recognition  of the 
cancelled appointments. But Mr S has said he feels he should  also be compensated for the 
hassle, calls and emails  hes had to send following up this complaint. 
Whilst I can appreciate it mustve been  frustrating to have to complain, unfortunately 
sometimes things do go wrong. But just because someone has made a complaint, or 
referred their complaint  to the Financial Ombudsman Service,  this doesnt mean they are 
due compensation.  And complaint handling  isnt a regulated activity in the Dispute 
Resolution Rules, which are set by the Financial  Conduct Authority. Were only able to 
consider regulated activities - so compensation for bringing the complaint to us is not 
something I can consider.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
British Gas Insurance Limited should send Mr S a £50 cheque  by recorded delivery, if they 
have not done so already.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0472173