K821x#15complaint
Miss R says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Miss R took out with a store  card in 2003. Its been  
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. FICL disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to give Miss R clear  information about it so she could decide 
if it was right for her. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think FICL gave Miss R 
clear enough  information  on the costs and benefits of the policy.
The application form for the store card didnt show the cost of the policy  or explain  the 
impact the cost could  have on the outstanding balance or interest charged on the card. And I 
havent seen clear evidence to suggest  the costs  and benefits were clearly explained to 
Miss R at any other point  during the sale either.
I think this wouldve mattered to Miss R, as shes told us she wouldve been  entitled to six 
months full sick pay from her employer.
FICL has questioned  whether Miss R would actually have been  entitled to this amount of 
sick pay, as shed been with her employer for less than 12 months at the time of the sale.  
But while some employers offer reduced sick pay benefits for employees until they have  a 
certain length of service,  not all do and Ive seen  nothing  to suggest Miss Rs employers did 
so.
Miss R has been consistent about her sick pay entitlement throughout her complaint. Ive not 
seen any clear evidence  to suggest she was entitled to less sick pay than she said. And I 
dont think this amount  of sick pay is unreasonable given her employer. So I think  its likely  
she was entitled  to the sick pay she says.  And so I think she had enough  financial protection  
to not really need the PPI.
I dont think Miss R wouldve bought the policy if FICL had given her clear  enough 
information about it. And so I think Miss R has lost out as a result  of what FICL  did wrong.
Ref: DRN08313342putting things right
FICL should put Miss R in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken  out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Miss R would owe on her store  card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss R owes  and what  she would 
have owed.
If Miss R made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Miss R would have owed each month without PPI  
Miss R paid more than enough to clear her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest 
on the extra Miss R paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when 
Miss R wouldve owed  FICL something on her card. The interest rate should  be 8% a 
year.
C.FICL  should tell Miss R what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Miss R a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0831334