K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss T says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2002. 
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Miss T owed on her store  card. The policy would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Miss T couldnt work 
because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss T disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ts complaint. I understand Miss T feels  strongly that her PPI 
was mis-sold so this decision  will come as a disappointment to her. Ill explain my reasoning 
below.
FICL had to make it clear to Miss T that the policy  was optional and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Miss T says she was unaware PPI had been added to 
her account.  The policy was taken out in store. I dont know what happened  during the sale 
so Ive looked at the paperwork available to help me decide whats likely to have happened. 
Ive been given a copy of the application  form that Miss T completed when she took out the 
card and this includes  a section for PPI. Miss T has signed to say she wanted the policy.   If 
she hadnt wanted it she couldve left this section  blank. 
On balance I think its likely that FICL  would  have asked Miss T for her agreement  to add the 
policy to her account and she chose to take it knowing she didnt have to. Although  its 
understandable that she no longer remembers this. 
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Miss T and I think thats likely to be right.  So it 
didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need  to make sure it gave 
Miss T clear enough  information about  the policy to enable her to decide for herself if she 
should take the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL gave Miss T about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Miss T 
Ref: DRN04492752was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or an existing  medical condition.
Miss T has told us that she wouldve  received six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay if she was off work sick. She also says she had some savings. But the PPI would have 
paid out on top of any employee benefits she wouldve received and until she was able to 
return to work, or until the outstanding balance was cleared  whichever came first. And the 
policy would cover the same term if she was to lose her job. So I still think the policy couldve 
been useful to her.  And overall, when taking into account everything Ive seen and been  
told, I dont think  Miss T has lost out as a result of anything FICL did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0449275