K822xcomplaint
Mr D has complained about the way Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited (Clydesdale)  
has handled a claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (s.75).
background 
In 2013 Mr D purchased  an air to water  heating pump from a company called My Planet Ltd 
(My Planet), who arranged for the supply and installation of the system.  It cost £19,500.
Mr D paid £100 deposit the took out a loan with Clydesdale (t/a Barclays  Partner Finance) to 
pay the remaining  £19,400.  The system  was installed and commissioned in 
September 2013, but Mr D says he never signed the satisfaction note due to numerous 
issues with the installation.  He says My Planet promised  to remedy  the issues and told him 
that hed be able to claim  Renewable Heat Incentive (RHI) payments six months after 
installation.
When Mr D contacted Ofgem  in April 2014 to claim RHI, he says he was told he needed to 
have meters installed with his system, but My Planet had never  fitted them.  A different, third 
party company, attended  Mr Ds home and found the system had been incorrectly  installed.   
It re-installed  the system, but Mr D continued to report problems with it.
Mr D complained under the Microgeneration Certification Scheme (MCS) that the system 
was unsuitable  for his property in late 2014.  He also raised  a complaint with My Planet.
The Clydesdale loan was repaid in full by Mr D in mid-2016, and in late 2016 a claims 
management company  (CMC) contacted Clydesdale to make  a s.75 claim on his behalf.  
Under s.75 a finance provider may be held liable for any misrepresentation or breach of 
contract to the same extent as the supplier.
Essentially, the CMC  said the system had been misrepresented to Mr D, but Clydesdale 
wasnt persuaded there had been  a misrepresentation.  However,  it did offer Mr D a payment  
of £3,500 as a gesture  of goodwill  to resolve  matters.
Mr D disagreed with Clydesdale and rejected the goodwill offer  so the CMC referred  a 
complaint to this Service for review.  One  of our investigators  looked  into Mr Ds concerns 
and recommended the complaint be upheld.
In summary,  the investigator said she thought the system had been misrepresented to Mr D 
as the evidence suggests he was told the financial benefits from the system would cover the 
cost of the loan used  to pay for it.  She also explained its possible the system is in fact 
unsuitable for Mr Ds property.  So, to put things right she suggested Clydesdale  arrange for 
the system to be removed  and refund any payments Mr D made to pay for the system  
(allowing for any RHI benefit he may have received).
The CMC confirmed that Mr D accepted  the investigators view.   Clydesdale responded 
agreeing the complaint should  be upheld and acknowledging it hadnt handled Mr Ds 
concerns correctly, but it queried the recommended  redress.  It requested an inspection  be 
carried out of Mr Ds system, to see if the heating pump can be made to work and assess 
what would  be needed if removal of the system is required.  However,  it noted  an inspection  
could not be carried  out immediately due to the current coronavirus pandemic and so it may 
take a little while to resolve.
Ref: DRN03966332As no final agreement could be reached, Ive now been asked to consider everything afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator  and for broadly  the same reasons.
Given the time that has passed since Mr D purchased the system,  and the limited  
documentation available,  where something  is unclear its necessary for me to decide what I 
think to be most likely on balance.
The CMC has provided a document which it says was used by My Planet as part of its sales  
presentation at the time of Mr Ds purchase.  Whilst the presentation is undated and I cant 
be certain it was provided to Mr D, I think its reasonable  to assume  its a likely reflection of 
what Mr D was told at the time.   The presentation makes a number  of claims about the 
heating pump system  including:
That its optimised to provide all the heating  and hot water a home  needs, whatever  
the weather.
The combination of RHI payments and our finance options means your Heat  Source 
system will be totally self-funding.
It appears from the point  of sale documentation that the calculation of benefits  and final 
purchase invoice  do not match.  I consider this is likely because Mr D was offered an 
upgraded system  (at a higher cost) than was initially  offered to him by My Planet.  
So, although  the calculation of benefits sheet is for a slightly lower cost system, it shows an 
annual financial benefit of £3,124 from the combined  RHI payments and energy bill savings.  
It also showed an annual  loan cost of £2,957  although the actual cost of the loan Mr D 
ultimately entered was £3,024.60 per year.
Mr D says he was told the system  would  generate  excess  profit  per year above  the cost of 
the loan.  As the illustration of the system benefits supports this, Im satisfied he was likely 
told that by My Planet.  This was also reliant  on him receiving the RHI payments for the first 
seven years (and so requiring the necessary meters to be eligible to claim).
Given the fact that the cost of the system was around £20,000 and closer to £30,000  for the 
loan to be repaid  with interest, I consider the financial  benefits were likely  a key inducement 
for Mr D when  making the purchase   as essentially it would pay for itself.
Mr D complained the heating pump could never have  been suitable as his property is very 
old and cannot  be insulated in away to support the projected energy savings.  He also said 
that the cold climate  in the part of the country in which he lives means that isnt as functional 
or efficient  as was represented to him either.   I cant be certain about that without  further 
inspection and report.  But given everything  else, if the true costs  and features of the system 
had been properly represented to Mr D, Im not persuaded  he wouldve gone ahead  with the 
purchase or entered  the loan at all in any event.
fair compensation
Ref: DRN03966333When considering  what is fair and reasonable there  is no exact science.  But  as Ive 
concluded Mr D likely  wouldnt have made the purchase were  it not for the 
misrepresentations made by My Planet, I think the agreement  should be unwound.  This 
would mean  Clydesdale arranging for the removal of the heating pump and any remedial  
work required  as thats the position  he would be in had he not purchased the system.
So, to put things right Clydesdale  should  do the following:
Arrange for the removal of the air to water heating pump and its system  components.
Arrange for the completion of any remedial work required to put Mr Ds property back 
into the position it was in before  the installation (including re-installing his boiler if 
required).
Pay Mr D the £100 deposit he paid, plus 8% simple interest per annum from the date 
it was paid to the date of settlement.
Refund all loan payments made by Mr D plus 8% simple interest per annum from the 
date of each payment  to the date of settlement  but allowing for the deduction  of all 
RHI payments hes received.
Remove all references to the loan from Mr Ds credit file.
For Clydesdale to compensate Mr D it will require  details  of all RHI payments Mr D has 
received until settlement.   Im aware these have already been provided  for the period  of 
January 2015  to January  2020.
Im also aware that given  the current pandemic it may not be possible for Clydesdale  to 
arrange for the removal of the heating  pump  system immediately.  But it should calculate 
and pay any redress to Mr D and then arrange  for the removal and reinstatement  work  to be 
completed as soon as possible.  I have considered that this may result in the possibility of 
Mr D receiving additional RHI payment following the redress calculation.  However overall, 
Im satisfied if that happens, its fair and reasonable given the time Mr D has had to wait for a 
resolution to matters and the disruption the work will cause  him.  And  this will bring finality  to 
matters.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint against Clydesdale  Financial Services  
Limited and direct it to put this right by following the steps set out in the fair compensation 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0396633