K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about eight payday  loans that Quick Quid provided to Mr M from June 2008 
onwards. Mr Ms last loan was provided  in July 2010.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought the complaint about loans two 
to eight should be upheld. 
Quick Quid disagreed so the complaint was passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan two would most likely  have 
shown that:
Ref: DRN03547232Mr M was struggling financially. He deferred  his first loan on more  than one occasion  
and incurred late payment fees. Indeed it took him more  than five months to settle a 
loan that was supposed to be settled in two months.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr M, I think  Quick  
Quid should reasonably have seen  Mr M was unlikely to have been able to make his loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner  by the time it provided loan three. I say this because:
By this stage, Mr M was into his ninth consecutive month of owing Quick  Quid 
money. In my view,  Mr Ms pattern  of borrowing up until this point  was in itself a clear 
demonstration of Mr Ms inability to settle  his loans over the life of the credit  
agreement. 
Mr M continued  to be provided  with new loans shortly after having repaid previous 
ones. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised  it was more likely  than not Mr M was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole the repayment of his previous loans left in 
his finances and that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads into what he owed Quick Quid and his 
indebtedness was being prolonged for an extended  period of time. Loan eight was 
provided more than two years  after Mr Ms first. And Mr M owed more than five times 
as much at this stage.  This meant that Mr M paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Quick  Quid over an extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out because Quick Quid provided loans two to eight because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed Quick Quid money was likely to have had 
negative implications on Mr Ms ability  to access mainstream credit  and so kept him 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  the loans from loan two onwards and Quick  Quid  
should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  two to seven;
Mr M repaid more than what he was lent for loan eight before Quick Quid  sold an 
outstanding balance on to a third party debt purchaser. So Quick  Quid should  refund 
the extra Mr M paid (over and above the amount he was lent) to it and also refund 
any payments Mr M made  to the third party (as they will have been  overpayments  
equivalent to interest  and charges);  
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded amounts from the date they were 
paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
make  sure that no outstanding debt remains. Quick Quid can either do this by settling 
any outstanding  balance direct with the third party or paying Mr M the amount 
needed to clear this balance  himself;
Ref: DRN03547233the period  of time Mr M owed  Quick Quid money  means that any information  still 
recorded about the upheld loans is adverse. So all entries about loans two to eight, 
should there remain any, should  be removed from Mr Ms credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ms complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0354723