K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Ferratum UK Ltd irresponsibly gave her loans  which she couldnt 
afford to pay back. 
background 
Mrs M took out 18 loans  with Ferratum between June 2014  and May 2016.
She says she was in financial  difficulty and her loans kept being increased and granted 
without checking  she could afford  it. Mrs M says she was continually borrowing.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and said it wasnt unfair for Ferratum to offer loans 
1 to 4 but at the point  of loan 5 Mrs Ms borrowing pattern was a cause for concern and 
Ferratum shouldve seen  that she was persistently relying on these  loans at the point of loan 
6. He thought  Ferratum  shouldve seen that Mrs M wasnt responsibly managing her money 
and it shouldnt have  given her any of the loans from loan 5 onwards.
Ferratum didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion and in particular said that it didnt think 
Mrs M was persistently relying  on the credit. It pointed out all of the checks  and assessments 
it did before  lending to Mrs M. As a gesture of goodwill it did offer to refund all interest and 
charges incurred on loans 13 to 18. Mrs M didnt accept that offer and so the complaint  has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Ferratum should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN08574622the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish  whether 
Mrs M could  sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint. 
Ferratum has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mrs M. It asked Mrs M for 
details of her income and normal  expenditure. And Ferratum carried  out checks  on Mrs Ms 
credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Ferratum to give Mrs M loans  1 to 4 on 
the basis of the information she gave about  her income and outgoings. It was early  in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Ferratum  to agree to lend.  As 
Mrs M hasnt  raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans 
one to four, I dont  think that I need to say more about them.
At the point of loan 5 I agree with the adjudicator that Mrs Ms borrowing pattern was a 
cause for concern. This was her fifth loan in seven months and her borrowing  had been  
steadily increasing.  Mrs M was showing signs that she couldnt afford to pay back what  she 
had borrowed without  borrowing again and wasnt using this credit as a short  term solution  to 
a temporary problem. I agree with the adjudicator  that this pattern suggested that Mrs M 
wasnt responsibly managing her money  and it was likely that she couldnt sustainably  repay  
this loan. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mrs Ms lending with Ferratum to see if there was a point 
at which  Ferratum should reasonably have seen that further  lending  was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Ferratum shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend 
more money to Mrs M.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Ms case,  I agree with the conclusions of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan six. I say this because:
Ref: DRN08574623When Mrs M took out loan six, shed been borrowing almost continually  and wasnt  
making any inroads  into the amount that she owed. This continued for the rest of the 
loans.
I think that Mrs M lost out because Ferratum continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards. This is because:
These loans had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mrs Ms indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit  intended for short term use over an extended  period  of time.
The number  of loans, combined  with the total length of time Mrs M had been  borrowing 
from Ferratum was likely to have  had negative implications  on her ability to access  
mainstream credit. This kept Mrs M in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mrs Ms complaint about loans 5 to 18.
putting things right  what Ferratum needs to do
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Ferratum UK Ltd should:
A. Add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mrs M towards  interest, fees and 
charges on loans 5 to 18, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mrs M which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mrs M originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay the total of A and B to Mrs M.
D. Remove any adverse  information about loan 5 from Mrs Ms credit file. The number of 
loans taken from loan 6 means  that all information about them is adverse so all information  
about loans 6 to 18 should  be removed from Mrs Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum  to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum must  
give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part and direct Ferratum  UK Ltd to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0857462