K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  for a 
mortgage.
background
In 1995, Mrs H took out a mortgage  with Lloyds, and she took out a PPI policy to cover it. 
Mrs H paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract  interest. It 
covered her mortgage  payments in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.  
Ive decided that Mrs Hs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was well over two decades ago and the account has long since closed, so I think  
its understandable that neither side have the original documents  from the time. Indeed, 
under data protection regulations Lloyds were required to dispose of Mrs Hs data rather 
than hold onto it for too long. Mrs H doesnt  remember being given a fair choice  about  buying 
PPI, though I need to bear in mind that memories can and do fade over time, that this sale 
was a particularly  long time ago, and that buying  insurance is not often memorable. Ive 
thought carefully  about whats most  likely to have  happened based on the information I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Lloyds to have added the PPI without Mrs Hs 
permission, or to have  misled her into thinking she had to have  it. But I have no evidence  
which shows thats what Lloyds did here.  Nor have I seen any wider problems with its sales 
process from the time,  or any evidence  to show that it didnt give customers a fair choice in 
general. So on that basis, I dont think I can fairly conclude that its most likely Lloyds misled 
Mrs H here.  I think its more likely  that they made her aware she had a choice about buying  
PPI, and that she chose  to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer 
recalls doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs H or not. The requirements were  
stricter on Lloyds if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mrs H, Ive assumed  they did. 
That means Lloyds  had to check the PPI was right for her  and based  on what  Ive seen of 
her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example,  Mrs H doesnt seem  to have been 
affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. While Mrs H said she had good 
sick pay through work, the PPI wouldve  paid out on top of that, and it offered her more 
comprehensive cover   especially when her sick pay reduced  to just a fraction  of her normal  
income. And Mrs H doesnt  seem  to have had any other cover in case  she lost her job. Its 
worth bearing in mind  that this mortgage  was Mrs Hs sole responsibility, and if she fell 
behind on the payments  she risked losing her home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really 
been useful for Mrs H in protecting her home  and giving  some peace of mind. 
Ref: DRN04905012Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mrs H about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. But as I explained  above,  Mrs H wasnt  affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been  useful for her in case  something went wrong.  
The policy was not bad value given how much  it would  pay out in a claim, it was a relatively  
low price, and Ive not seen any indication that it was unaffordable.  And the policy was paid 
on a rolling monthly  basis, so Mrs H could  cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall,  
I dont think that better information was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0490501