K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the charges  Ald Automotive  Limited (Ald), trading as Hyundai 
Contract Hire, asked  him to pay to refurbish a car he was financing with them at the end of 
the hire period. 
background
Mr P took receipt of a new car in June 2015. He financed the deal through a three year hire 
agreement but when he returned the car at the end of the agreement Ald invoiced him over 
£850 for a replacement  spare wheel, tyre and carrier that they said hadnt been returned  with 
the car.
Mr P said the absence of the spare  tyre hadnt  been noted during the collection inspection  
and if it had been he wouldve challenged that finding. He said he hadnt needed to change  a 
tyre during the lease period so he couldnt say if the car had been  provided without the tyre 
and he disputed the cost of the replacement which he said was extortionate.
But Ald disagreed. They explained that the third party collection company had listed the 
spare wheel as N/A which meant it wasnt present to allow  them to measure the depth of 
the tread.  They said the spare wheel came  as standard on this make of car. They  explained 
that the car had been inspected within the guidelines on fair wear and tear provided by the 
British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA) and these guidelines said the 
spare wheel should be intact and stowed properly.  They said as this wasnt the case  they 
had been right to make  a charge for a replacement.
Mr P was dissatisfied by Alds response  so he referred his complaint to this service and our 
adjudicator provided  her opinion. She agreed  with Ald. She thought it was more  likely  than 
not that the wheel  was missing when  the car was returned and whilst she understood Mr Ps 
argument that the wheel could have been  stolen, as it was under the car, she thought  the 
responsibility for any missing parts lay with the consumer. So she didnt think  Ald needed to 
take any further action.
But Mr P disagreed. He said there was no evidence the wheel  was missing: the inspector 
had simply stated N/A. He said he should  have been  given a chance to rectify the situation 
and the charge was extortionate. So he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr P so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN01644322Mr P acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated  consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.
refurbishment charges
The terms of Mr Ps finance agreement said:
If you do not return the vehicle in a suitable  condition you must pay to have it restored  to 
such a condition.
As the adjudicator has explained, its the BVRLA  who provide the guidance  on what  should  
be considered  fair wear  and tear when cars are returned at the end of a hire period. 
They say that the cars  spare  wheel  should  be intact and I think its fair to say that means it 
should be present.
So if the car was returned without a spare wheel a charge  could be fairly made.
Ive seen a picture  of the underside of the car and its clear  no wheel or carrier is present.
Ive also noted  in the inspection report that the wheel  brace  is reported  as absent and I think 
its fair to assume that wouldve been  stored with the spare wheel. So Im persuaded that the 
wheel was missing  when the car was collected.
I understand Mr Ps concerns about the charge as I find his account credible.  I think its 
feasible that he wouldnt have noticed  the absence of the wheel and it could well have been 
stolen. I think thats  more likely than it being absent on delivery  as Mr P has had the car for 
three years and I think its fair to say there was more opportunity  for the wheel to have  gone  
missing in that time.
But its also fair to say its Mr Ps responsibility to look after the car and to ensure its 
returned in the correct  condition. And here Im persuaded  that the car was not in the correct  
condition and that the charges are being  fairly made.
Ive considered whether the charge Ald have made  is extortionate  but I dont think thats the 
case as the charge is for the tyre, wheel  and carrier which I think its fair to say would also 
cost to fit. So in those circumstances I think their charge is reasonable and I dont think they 
need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0164432