K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Allianz Insurance Plc have declined his pet insurance claim.
background
Mr A took out pet insurance for his cats in 2016. The policy was designed to cover  illness  or 
injury for a period of 12 months, or until the policys maximum  benefit  had been reached.  
Whichever came first. 
In 2018, Mr A submitted a claim for treatment one of his cats had received for Bronchitis and 
Brachycephalic Obstructive Airway Syndrome (BOAS). Allianz said they wouldnt cover the 
cats treatment though  because the cats veterinary records showed that clinical  signs of 
the conditions  had been present more than 12 months ago. 
Allianz explained that the 12 months of cover available on Mr As policy  was designed  to 
start from the date clinical signs of an illness  (or an illness  with the same  diagnosis or clinical  
signs) were  first noticed. But Mr A disagreed with that and complained.  
Mr A said that, during  their sales call, Allianz had told him all pre-existing conditions would 
be covered so long as they hadnt presented  in the previous 12 months.  Mr A also said that 
the conditions  being claimed for were  unrelated  to the cats previous medical history.  But 
Allianz maintained  their decision  and said they hadnt told Mr A that all pre-existing 
conditions would be covered. So, Mr A approached  this service. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened but didnt think  that Allianz had told 
Mr A all pre-existing conditions would be covered. She said that in any event, Allianz  hadnt  
declined Mr As claim because of a pre-existing condition. Theyd declined  it because Mr A 
had made  the claim more  than 12 months after the illnesses had been diagnosed and/or had 
first shown clinical signs, and the veterinary records did show thered been a chronic  history  
of Bronchitis signs and BOAS  had been  diagnosed in 2016.
Because of that, our investigator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint be upheld.  But 
Mr A disagreed with her findings  and so, as no agreement was reached,  the complaint  was 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint and will explain why.
Mr A says that during their sales call, Allianz told him all pre-existing conditions would be 
covered so long as they hadnt  presented  within 12 months. Ive listened  to that call. And it 
starts with Allianz setting  out the two policies that were available to Mr A. When describing 
the policy Mr A eventually chose, Allianzs call handler says:  
each injury or illness (word inaudible) will be covered up to £3000 for a period of 12 
months and after that time that condition  will be excluded from the cover,  but you can claim 
for any new unrelated  illness or injury.
Ref: DRN01512152As the call progresses,  Mr A is transferred to an underwriter because one of his cats has 
previously suffered from urine  infections. And that underwriter tells Mr A an exclusion for 
urinary system  disorders will be placed on his policy. The conversation then centres  around  
that exclusion and during  that time Mr A asks whether the exclusion is permanent.  The 
underwriter reiterates that any urinary system disorders  would be excluded for 12 months. 
They then say that once the cat was fine and 12 months had passed  the exclusion could be 
reviewed and, once  reviewed,  if something were to happen again  Mr A may be able to claim 
for it. 
I appreciate Mr A interpreted that comment to mean all pre-existing conditions  would be 
covered so long as they hadnt  presented  in the previous 12 months. But Im not persuaded 
thats what was meant. I say that because at that point during the call, the conversation  with 
had centred around the exclusion for urinary system  disorders. When  referring to the 
exclusion being reviewed  after 12 months, the underwriter  didnt  say that was applicable to 
all pre-existing conditions. And once  Mr A had been transferred back  to the original call 
handler, they took him through some  of the policys terms  and conditions  and explained:
This plan covers any illness or injury for 12 months only or up to £3000,  whichever is 
reached first, and the 12 months will actually start on the date the injury happened or the 
illness was first noticed. And after that time, we will not cover any further claims for that 
illness or injury.
As our investigator explained, Mr As claim wasnt declined because  of a pre-existing 
condition though. It was declined because  hed made the claim too late. 
Mr A submitted his claim for Bronchitis and BOAS in 2018. As noted above, his policy is 
designed to cover an injury or illness for 12 months,  or until the maximum policy  benefit  has 
been reached. And the terms and conditions of his policy set that out as follows:
Each injury and illness is covered for:
12 months, starting from the date during the policy year the injury happened  or the 
clinical signs of the illness were first noticed, or
Until the maximum  benefit has been reached.
The terms and conditions  also set out when that 12 month or maximum benefit  period is 
calculated from:
The period of 12 months and the maximum benefit will always  start or be calculated from 
the date in the policy year:
The injury first happened or the clinical signs of an illness  were  first noticed, or
An illness with the same diagnosis or clinical signs was first noticed 
Within the veterinary records that have  been  made available is an entry dated May 2018. It 
reads:
Chronic hx of bouts  of respiratory distress (O sent in video on email) which has occurred in 
prev years, but more freq this year. Seems to flare up around warmer months. 
In order to be eligible  for cover, the Bronchitis  that Mr A claimed  for would had to have been 
first noticed  or diagnosed within the 12 months prior to that May 2018  note being  made.  But 
Im not persuaded I can fairly say that was the case here, because the note itself refers to 
Ref: DRN01512153Mr As cat as having suffered from a chronic history of respiratory  distress  and cites there 
having been symptoms in previous years  too.
Referring to the terms and conditions of Mr As policy again, they set out that:
We will not pay
The cost of any treatment your pet receives  more than 12 months after the date the 
injury happened  or the illness first showed clinical signs.
The cost of any treatment resulting  from an injury  or illness,  if the clinical signs  are 
the same  as the clinical signs  of an injury which happened or illness which first 
showed clinical signs more than 12 months before.
And so, because the available  evidence in this case suggests that clinical signs  of Bronchitis 
were noticed  more than 12 months prior to May 2018, I dont think  it was unreasonable  of 
Allianz to decline  cover for that condition.
Similarly, in relation to BOAS,  the veterinary records note that in August  2016 Mr As cat had 
been suffering  from:
continuing respiratory signs and clear ocular discharge [] very brachycephalic [] ddx 
BOAS with concurrent  viral and bacterial RTI, rhinitis [] discussed  options and suggest 
referral for a second  opinion regarding long terms options for BOAS. O is considering  
referral and will call me to confirm if he wants me to refer.
That implies  that BOAS  was diagnosed in 2016  which was 2 years prior to Mr A claiming for 
it in 2018. So, in line with his policy, Im not persuaded that condition would have been 
eligible for cover at the point Mr A claimed for it either. Because  the 12 month  period in 
which cover  might have been  available had already  expired. And again, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Allianz to decline cover for that condition  either.
I realise that Mr A will be disappointed by my findings. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0151215