K821x#15complaint
Miss W has complained that UK Credit Limited  (UK Credit)  irresponsibly provided  her with 
an unaffordable  guarantor  loan.  
She says that she was experiencing  severe  financial difficulty  and she was borrowing from 
multiple payday loan companies and had significant debts elsewhere on loans, an overdraft, 
credit and store cards and priority bills. 
background
UK Credit provided Miss W with a guarantor loan in December  2016. The loan was for 
£6,000 and it was due to be repaid in 60 instalments of £264.58. The total amount to be 
repaid was £15,874.80.
One of our investigators  had an initial look at what UK Credit  and Miss W told us. And he 
thought that UK Credit hadnt done  anything wrong  or treated Miss W unfairly when 
providing this loan. So he didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint.  Miss W disputed our 
investigators assessment  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
Miss Ws complaint was then reviewed  by one of our adjudicators  with a view to the case 
being passed to an ombudsman. And upon receiving further  information  from the parties, our 
adjudicator issued a revised opinion to UK Credit. She told UK Credit  that the checks  it 
carried out before providing Miss W with this loan werent reasonable and proportionate and 
if such checks had been carried  out it would have  seen that it Miss W wasnt  in a position to 
sustainably make the repayments.  
So she thought that UK Credit shouldnt have  provided Miss W with this loan and upheld  the 
complaint. UK Credit disagreed with our adjudicators assessment and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. So the complaint has now been passed  to me for a final decision.
the regulatory framework
UK Credit provided Miss W with this loan when  it was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. This meant that it was subject  to the FCA rules and regulations.
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
Ref: DRN01026182This sets out the rules  and guidance which apply to guarantor loan providers like UK Credit  
when providing  loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. 
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5. As is evident from the following extracts,  
the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back to sections of the OFTs ILG on many  
occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
borrower a loan. It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  
is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
Ref: DRN01026183[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC also contains the additional  obligations owed by guarantor  loan providers to 
guarantors when providing a guarantor loan.  The additional requirements in relation to an 
assessment of the guarantors circumstances are contained in CONC 5.2.5R. 
As the guarantor isnt a party to this complaint, I dont think  that its necessary to set out all 
the rules and guidance relating to the additional  obligations  owed  to guarantor in this 
decision. That said I do think  its useful  for me to set out CONC 5.2.6G which  says:
(2)The provision of the guarantee or indemnity  (or both),  and the assessment of the 
guarantor under CONC 5.2.5R, does not remove or reduce the obligation  on 
the lender to carry out an assessment of the borrower under CONC 
5.2.1R or CONC 5.2.2R. Firms are reminded  of the rule in CONC 5.3.4R  that the 
assessment of the borrower must not be based  primarily or solely  on the value  of 
any security provided  by the borrower.
Ref: DRN01026184Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Miss Ws loan was provided after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit  Act came into force  on 
6 April 2007. Section  140A sets out circumstances where the court may determine that the 
relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. 
Section 140A says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(1)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
Ref: DRN01026185the agreement  or any related agreement (whether  paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
other relevant publications  
CONC set out the regulatory framework that authorised lenders have to adhere to. But the 
rules and guidance represent  a minimum standard for firms. And Im also required to take 
into account any other guidance, standards,  relevant  codes of practice,  and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
the FCAs Portfolio  Strategy Letter to firms providing  high cost lending products
On 6 March 2019,  The FCA wrote  a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer  of all the 
firms it allocated to its High Cost Lenders  portfolio. The letter set out the FCAs view of the 
key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers  and the markets they operate  in. On 
page two of this letter,  the FCA sets out its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed  
their strategies and business models.  We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number  and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request  to firms  in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  
patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  
may not be able to afford.
Ref: DRN01026186We also see an additional potential harm from guarantor  lending:
the proportion  of loan repayments  that guarantors make has risen considerably, 
which could indicate that affordability  on the part of the borrowers  is falling
On page three of the letter, in the section entitled Complaints it says:
We expect firms  to fulfil all relevant  obligations, including  analysing the root causes of 
complaints and taking  into account  the Financial  Ombudsman  Services relevant decisions. 
We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in 
the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to 
all firms in the portfolio.
Further detail in relation to the FCAs future work  was provided  on page four of the letter.  
The section entitled Additional focus for firms  providing guarantor  lending  said:
As well as the areas of focus above,  we will also prioritise our supervisory work with firms  
that provide guarantor loans in the following  area: 
Payments made by guarantor: 
Our diagnostic work on guarantor lending showed  that many guarantors  make at least  one 
repayment and the proportion of guarantors making payments is growing. We want  to 
understand the root causes for this increase,  and whether firms  are conducting  adequate  
affordability assessments. We are also concerned that guarantors  may not fully understand 
how likely it is that they will be called upon  to make a payment. So, as well as our broad  
portfolio-wide work on relending, we will start a piece of complementary work on guarantor 
lending. This will establish whether  potential guarantors  have  enough information  to 
understand the likelihood and implications of the guarantee being enforced.
the FCAs Dear CEO letter on affordability  of High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC)  loans
On 15 October 2018, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO  letter  to the Chief  Executive Officer of all 
HCSTC providers. The letter was about  the issues surrounding the increase  in complaints 
about unaffordable lending.
The third paragraph  of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently  published four examples of determinations of 
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues  raised in 
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm ). 
If relevant,  firms  should take these examples of determinations into account  as part of 
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP  1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight  in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged 
in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014,  in which we said that we were 
concerned that repeat  borrowing could indicate  a pattern of dependency  on HCSTC that is 
harmful to the borrower. We noted  that rigorous  affordability assessments  were key to 
avoiding harm in this area, and firms  should ensure they are making responsible 
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
Ref: DRN01026187the FCA Executive  Director of Supervisions (Retail and Authorisations) speech at the Credit 
Summit, London, on 21 March 2019  
The FCAs Executive  Director  of Supervision gave a speech at the Credit  Summit, which  
took place on 21 March 2019,  entitled  What can the consumer credit sector expect from the 
FCA? . 
The speech  reiterated much of what was said in the High Cost Credit  portfolio strategy  letter 
(set out above) issued on 6 March  2019.  And in his speech the Executive Director of 
Supervision said:
Over the last few years we have seen a dramatic increase in the use of guarantor loans by 
consumers. Balances on guarantor loans are fast approaching £1 billion and these have 
more than doubled since 2016.  
While these products provide an opportunity  for those with thin credit  files - poor or limited 
credit history  - we do have concerns.  Concerns about affordability. Recent work we have  
done in this area showed that many guarantors are making  at least 1 payment and the 
proportion of guarantors  making these payments is growing.
There is also growing anecdotal  evidence that guarantors may not understand how likely it is 
that they will be called upon to make  a payment. Our work will therefore focus on 
affordability and on understanding whether potential guarantors have enough information to 
understand the likelihood and implications of the guarantee being enforced.  
We have already amended certain  rules  to ensure that the protections they provide to 
borrowers also extend to guarantors, for example  rules requiring forbearance, pre-
contractual explanations and fair treatment. In assessing creditworthiness,  we have clarified 
that firms must undertake  a reasonable assessment of the potential for the guarantors 
commitment to have a significant adverse  impact  on their financial  situation.
And if the guarantor is called upon, we have published guidance on our view of what  
constitutes enforcement of the guarantee  under  the CCA  in practice this means  we 
expect firms to provide guarantors with adequate  notice before exercising a Continuous 
Payment Authority (CPA).
There are also questions  over the level of interest  rates charged on these products 
considering that these  guarantors are deemed to be credit worthy,  we will therefore be 
considering this and the business models  of these firms.
  
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are two overarching  questions I need  to consider in order to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Ref: DRN01026188Did UK Credit complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss W 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Miss W wouldve been able to do so?
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
If I determine that UK Credit didnt act fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Miss W and 
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Did UK Credit complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss W 
would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way? 
The rules  and regulations at the time UK Credit  lent to Miss W required  it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay her loan in a 
sustainable manner.  UK Credit was required to carry out this borrower focused assessment 
in addition to a similar one on the guarantor. This assessment  is sometimes  referred to as an 
affordability assessment  or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so UK Credit had to think  about  whether 
repaying the loan sustainably  would  cause difficulties or adverse consequences  for Miss W. 
In practice this meant that UK Credit had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Miss W undue  difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other  words, it wasnt enough  for UK Credit to simply think about the likelihood  of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss W. The existence 
of a guarantee and the potential for UK Credit to pursue the guarantor instead of Miss W, for 
the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
Even for the same customer,  a proportionate check could  look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
Ref: DRN01026189the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought  about all of the relevant  factors in this case.
Were UK Credits checks reasonable and proportionate?
UK Credit has said that it completed a detailed income and expenditure assessment with 
Miss W during what it has called a security  call. During this call Miss W confirmed that she 
received £1656.67 a month,  which was made  up of her salary and other in work  benefits. 
UK Credit also says that, as part of its credit  check,  it carried  out an electronic income 
verification check on Miss W, which confirmed that she, on average,  had this much going 
into her bank account each month for the past 12 months. It has also said that Miss W 
confirmed that her partners contribution to the household expenditure was 50% and this 
together with the fact that Miss W confirmed that she was consolidating some of existing 
debts left her with sustainably make  the payments to this loan. 
Ive carefully thought  about what UK Credit has said. But simply requesting  information from 
a borrower doesnt,  on its own,  mean that a lender  will have carried out a borrower  focused  
assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably  repay a loan. 
The credit check UK Credit carried out showed  that Miss W had taken a significant amount 
of payday loans in the period  leading up to this loan application. So I think that UK Credit 
ought to have taken steps to verify Miss Ws monthly expenditure, given that her declared 
monthly disposable income was inconsistent was with someone who taken out as many  
payday loans  for as long as Miss W did. In my view, the sheer number of payday loans 
suggested that there was a realistic possibility  that Miss W was struggling to make  ends 
meet. 
I say this while especially  mindful of the fact that the rules themselves provide guidance on 
the proportionality of affordability/creditworthiness assessments. The rules  and guidance  
suggest that the risk of any credit  not being sustainable  directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit  relative  to the customers  financial situation. 
This was an expensive loan and the credit search carried  out on Miss W showed  she may 
not have been in the healthiest financial position.   
I accept that UK credit might have been  prepared to accept this credit risk because the 
existence of Miss Ws guarantor might have  given it more confidence that the payments 
would be made, But I dont think that the existence of the guarantor, on its own, meant  that 
Miss W herself  would  be able to sustainably  make the payments given what the credit file 
showed.
Indeed I also think that it might also be helpful for me to explain that a less detailed  
affordability assessment,  without the need for verification,  is only really likely to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid is relatively 
Ref: DRN010261810small, the consumers financial situation is stable and they will be indebted for a relatively 
short period.  
But, in circumstances   such  as here - where  a customers finances are showing telling 
signs of possible strain and distress, they are expected  to maintain payments for a longer  
period of time and there is the potential that a guarantor will be required to step in and make 
payments, I think its far more likely  that any affordability assessment would need to be more 
detailed and contain a greater degree of verification, in order  for it to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate. 
In my view, bearing in mind the term of the loan,  the cost of the credit, what UK Credit had 
seen or ought  to have seen in the information gathered  and the potential implications for the 
guarantor, UK Credit  needed to get a thorough understanding of Miss Ws financial position  
in order to properly  assess  whether  shed  be able to sustainably make the loan payments 
she was being  asked to commit to. 
So as well as asking  Miss W about the details  of her income and expenditure, I think  that   
UK Credit needed to verify what it was being told by Miss W, rather than relying  on what 
Miss W declared  for her monthly expenditure. It could have done this by asking for 
information such as bank statements or copies  of bills. And when it obtained this information  
it needed to properly scrutinise it and ensure that Miss W did have enough funds to be able 
to make the payments.
 
As theres  no evidence  that UK Credit did properly scrutinise the information provided, or 
that it asked Miss W to provide documentary evidence to support the expenditure 
declarations made, I find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks before providing Miss W with this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have indicated to UK Credit that Miss W would 
have been unable to sustainably repay these loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent  carried out before this loan was provided,  
I cant say for sure what  they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely  
than not that a proportionate check would have  told UK Credit that Miss W wouldve been  
unable to sustainably  repay this loan.  
Miss W has now provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances  at the time she 
applied for this loan.  Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information  Miss W has provided,  it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks UK Credit mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from UK Credit showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place  considerable 
weight on it as an indication of what Miss Ws financial circumstances were more  likely than 
not to have been at the time.
As Ive already  explained, UK Credit was required to establish whether Miss W could  
sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were  
technically affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that 
Ref: DRN010261811this is the case.  And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make  their 
payments, it follows that a lender  should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower  wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  the information  Miss W has provided in light of all of this. 
The information Ive been provided  with shows Miss W had an overdraft which she was in 
continually in, in the months  leading up to this loan application. And Miss W didnt see a 
credit balance even  when she received her monthly salary. Indeed Miss W was struggling to 
make ends meet to such an extent that she was even  supplementing her overdraft by using 
short term loans from a number of different providers. And even then this didnt prevent her 
from incurring unplanned  overdraft and returned  direct  debit  fees.   
So Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks  would  more  likely than not have  
shown that Miss Ws monthly income  simply wasnt enough to meet her normal  monthly  
expenses as well as her creditors. And the best case scenario was that Miss W would make  
her payments by her overdraft. So Im satisfied  that the information provided shows that  
Miss W wasnt in a position to meet her existing financial commitments let alone take on new 
ones without having to borrow further.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks  would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss W would not have been able to make the 
loan repayments  to this loan without  borrowing further and/or  suffering undue difficulty. And, 
in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have alerted UK Credit to the fact that Miss W would not be able to sustainably  
make the repayments  to this loan. 
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss W in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude UK Credit  acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards Miss W in some 
other way.  
So I find that UK Credit  didnt act unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Miss W in some other 
way.  
conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on page 
eight of this decision, I find that:
UK Credit  didnt  complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss W to satisfy 
itself that she was able to repay  her loan;  
reasonable and proportionate checks would more  likely than not have shown Miss W 
was unable  to sustainably make the repayments  for this loan;
UK Credit  didnt  also act unfairly  or unreasonably  towards Miss W in some  other  way.
The above  findings leave me concluding that UK Credit unfairly and unreasonably provided 
Miss W with a guarantor loan in December 2016.
Ref: DRN010261812Did Miss W lose out as a result of UK Credit unfairly  and unreasonably  providing her with her 
guarantor loan?
I think that this loan had the effect of unfairly increasing Miss Ws indebtedness as it led to 
her to being provided with expensive credit for a significant sum. This loan was expensive 
and the monthly  payment, which also included interest and charges,  took up a significant 
proportion of Miss Ws income at a time where  she was already  struggling to make ends 
meet. 
So I find that Miss W did suffer adverse consequences and as a result  lost out because     
UK Credit unfairly provided her with this loan.
fair compensation  what  UK Credit needs to do to put things right  for Miss  W
Ive carefully thought  about what UK Credit should  do to put things right in this case. 
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business   
in so far as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position  they would be in 
now if that wrong hadnt taken place. In essence,  in this case, this would mean UK Credit  
putting Miss W in the position shed now be in if she hadnt been given this loan.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.       
Miss W was given  the loan in question and she used the funds. So, in these circumstances, 
I cant undo whats already been  done. And its simply  not possible to put Miss W back in the 
position she would be in if she hadnt  been  given this loan in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for UK Credit to put things right in 
the following  way.
interest and charges on the loans
As Ive explained throughout  this decision, UK Credit lending  to Miss W, in these 
circumstances, left her in a position  where  her debt was increasing. And Miss W kept having 
to find additional  funds to pay the monthly payments on her UK Credit loans. In reality its the 
interest and on this loan that led to Miss Ws indebtedness increasing and her financial 
position worsening. So to start with UK Credit should refund all the interest  and charges   
Miss W paid on this loan.  
Miss W will also have  lost the use of the funds  she used  to pay any interest and charges, UK 
Credit need to refund to her. As Miss W will have  lost the use of these funds, I think she 
should be compensated if she made any interest payments. 
We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where  a consumer hasnt had the use 
of funds because  its actions resulted in something having gone  wrong.  Bearing  in mind my 
conclusions in the paragraph  above,  I see no reason to depart from our usual approach here 
and I think awarding  8% per year simple interest,  on the interest and charges  that were  paid, 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Ref: DRN010261813Miss Ws credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.
So I think that UK Credit  should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ws 
credit file as a result of the interest  and charges on this loan, as Miss W wasnt  in a position  
to sustainably repay this loan and she shouldnt have had to pay those interest and charges 
in the first place.
All of this means  that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of      
Miss Ws complaint for UK Credit  to put things  right by:
refunding the interest and charges Miss W paid on her guarantor  loan;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest and charges from the date they 
were paid by Miss W to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Miss Ws credit file as a result  of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to take off tax from this interest.  UK Credit 
must give Miss W a certificate showing how much  tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Miss Ws complaint. UK Credit  Limited  should  
put things right for Miss W in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0102618