K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained Virgin Money plc only offered  him £75 compensation after taking more  
than four months  to resolve his fraud-related complaint.
background
In August  2018  Mr M noticed  transactions on his Virgin Money credit card statement that 
werent his. He called  them. Virgin Money re-credited Mr Ms account. They  then sent him a 
fraud declaration to ensure they had on record information about these transactions  being  
fraudulent. They received  this declaration back on 18 September 2018.
At the end of September  and October, further fraudulent transactions  debited  Mr Ms 
account. He complained again. A further  form was sent out to him. As Virgin Money  didnt 
receive this back,  they re-debited the payments  theyd already re-credited to Mr Ms account.
Mr M was understandably irate. He called Virgin Money numerous  times over the next two 
months. Eventually he emailed them a copy of the signed fraud declaration  on 7 March  
2019. Mr M was concerned about the amount of time hed had to spend  sorting  things out. 
Virgin Money offered  him £75 in compensation.  He thought this was paltry  as hed spent 
more than 30 hours trying to get things resolved.
Mr M brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator felt that Mr M did deserve further  compensation as Virgin  Money hadnt 
dealt with his complaint  as well as they should.  He asked them  to pay a further  £175  bringing 
compensation to a total of £250.  
Virgin Money offered  to pay £150  instead.  Mr M still felt he should be paid more than £300 
based on what he felt an hourly rate approach would provide.
Our investigator still felt £250 was the fair amount. This complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I dont think theres any dispute about what happened here. The different stages were laid 
out in our investigators view of 4 October 2019.  Ive not seen  anything  which  would lead me 
to think this was incorrect.
Virgin Money has disputed Mr M spent as much  time on the phone sorting things out as he 
claimed. Theyve also said its not part of their procedures to phone  a customer and ask why 
theyd not received a completed  fraud declaration form.
But in fact it seems to me the fraudulent transactions Mr M complained about (and noted in 
the original fraud declaration) involved  subscriptions to a media  channel.  In all likelihood  
these were set up as recurring transactions  thats  supported by the fact these amounts 
Ref: DRN02588972also debited Mr Ms account at the end of September  and October as well. So Id have to 
question why Virgin Money needed a further fraud declaration at all.  
I wouldnt expect Mr M to know the ins and outs of these type of payments but I would have 
expected Virgin Money  to have reviewed what this issue was about and applied a bit of 
common sense. I cant see they did this. This inevitably dragged the whole thing out. And 
involved Mr M in various phone calls trying to resolve issues.
I think the amount  our investigator thought Virgin Money should pay is fair. We dont 
generally reimburse individuals for the hours they spent on dealing  with a complaint, nor pay 
an hourly rate as such. But I have considered the impact this had on Mr M and the effort  he 
put into getting things sorted. I will be asking Virgin Money to pay Mr M a total of £250  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is to instruct Virgin Money  plc to pay Mr M a total of 
£250 compensation (including the £75 already offered).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0258897