K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about a hire purchase  agreement he has with Oodle Financial Services 
Limited.
background
In July 2017 Mr C bought  a car under a hire purchase agreement financed  by Oodle. At the 
same time, he returned his previous  car, which he had bought  with credit provided by a third 
party. He says he was not aware  at the time that this was a part exchange, because he 
wasnt allowed to read the agreement when  he signed it, and he complains that the part 
exchange was done without his knowledge  or consent. He says he would not have agreed to 
part exchange had he known, as it should  have  been enough to just hand his old car back. 
He says the finance agreement was therefore mis-sold to him, and that he should not be 
liable to Oodle  for so much of his debt to Oodle as relates to the original finance agreement.
There were a number of problems with the new car, and although the dealership  fixed some 
of them,  Oodle eventually  agreed (as a gesture of good will) to allow  Mr C to return  the car 
and unwind  the agreement. Before  this could be done, the car was written off in an accident. 
Mr C received an insurance pay-out.
Oodle is still standing by its offer to unwind the agreement. But it still expects  Mr C to repay 
what it lent him. It says that most of that debt could be cleared if Mr C would  send it the 
money he received  from the insurance  company, as he is required to do under the terms and 
conditions of their agreement. It says he can pay the remaining balance  in instalments. But 
Mr C has only paid some  of the insurance money. He disputes  that he owes  Oodle as much 
as it claims.  He says he has been  saddled with a massive debt through no fault of his own.
Our investigator said that Oodle should refund the £100 deposit Mr C paid Oodle when  he 
bought the car, but apart from that he did not uphold this complaint. He thought  that Oodle 
had only claimed  what was due to it. He did not think there was enough evidence  to find that 
the agreement  had been mis-sold. Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review  this complaint.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I uphold it, but only to the extent  that I will 
order Oodle to refund the £100 cash deposit  Mr C paid for the car (which  it may do by off-
setting it against  the amount Mr C owes to Oodle). Otherwise I do not uphold  the rest of this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
the part exchange
When Mr C replaced his old car with a new one, it wasnt just as simple as handing  back  the 
old car and taking out a new agreement for the new one. The old car had also been  bought  
on credit,  and so Mr C still needed  to repay  what he owed the original credit  provider. 
Handing back the car wouldnt end his liability under  the original  credit  agreement,  or pay the 
debt. When he settled  the old agreement early, he still owed £7,488:57.
The old cars part-exchange value was £4,000,  so this reduced the debt he owed by that 
amount. If the car hadnt been part-exchanged, Mr C would still have  owed the full amount.  
Ref: DRN08784982The part-exchange meant he was financially better off, because  he owed the finance 
provider £4,000 less.
The remaining  balance, £3,488:57, was paid to the finance provider on Mr Cs behalf by 
Oodle. That cleared his debt to the original  company, and became a debt to Oodle instead.  
Oodle lent Mr C that money under the hire purchase agreement.  I will summarise  the new 
agreement in the next section.
The important point  about the part exchange  complaint is that it doesnt  actually make any 
difference to Mr Cs position  whether  I uphold  that part of his complaint or not. If I upheld  his 
complaint, I would seek to put Mr C back in the position he would have  been  in if the old car 
had not been part-exchanged, and if Mr C had not bought the new car from Oodle on hire 
purchase. But in that case, Mr C would still owe the original  finance  provider £3,488:57, 
instead of owing it to Oodle. So he wouldnt be better off. He would still owe the same overall 
level of debt. In fact hed actually  be worse  off, because he would still owe the original  
finance provider  the £4,000 he got back by part-exchanging the old car. The old car would 
have depreciated  in value  since July 2017,  so he wouldnt get £4,000 for it now.
Oodle is still willing to unwind its hire purchase  agreement. This means that it is willing  to 
waive the total charge of credit  that is, the interest  and fees it charged Mr C under the 
agreement  which is exactly what I would  have told it to do if I had upheld  Mr Cs complaint 
that the agreement was mis-sold (if it hadnt  already agreed to do that voluntarily). So 
whether the agreement was mis-sold  is now a moot point. I dont need to consider what  
happened when  it was sold, and so I dont  make any finding about  that issue  one way or the 
other.
is Oodle charging Mr C too much?
I think the best way to explain how much  Mr C owes  Oodle is to set out what  he borrowed, 
what he has paid, what Oodle has waived  and what has happened since the accident.
I have read the hire purchase agreement and its terms and conditions. I will summarise  the 
important points.
The new car Mr C was buying from Oodle had a cash price  of £6,784. He paid a deposit of 
£100, and he paid the rest of the price by taking  out a hire purchase agreement with Oodle.  
That is to say, Oodle  bought the car and then hired it to Mr C on condition that he made 
monthly payments  to Oodle for five years, at the end of which Mr C would own the car 
himself. That effectively  means that Oodle lent him £6,684   the price of the car, minus the 
deposit.
As I explained in the last section, Oodle  also took over Mr Cs existing debt of £3,488:57 to 
the previous finance provider.
Adding those two amounts together shows that Oodle lent Mr C a total of £10,172:57, which 
he would  have to repay over five years.
Originally, Mr C was not only going  to have to pay back that amount, he was also going to 
have to pay Oodle  interest as well. The interest came to £4,832:23. He also had to pay a 
document fee of £50 and an option to purchase  fee of £50. Adding those three  amounts  
together makes  a total charge for credit of £4,932:23. That was the total cost of taking out 
the hire purchase  agreement, and was the total profit Oodle would have made. Adding that 
Ref: DRN08784983amount to the loan gives a total figure  of £15,104:80, which is the total sum Mr C was 
originally required to repay under the agreement.
However, in December 2017  Oodle  agreed, as a gesture  of good will, to take the car back  
and unwind  the agreement. That meant that Mr C would no longer owe Oodle any interest or 
fees. Oodle deducted £4,932:23 from what Mr C owed  under the agreement, so that he 
would only have to repay what Oodle had lent him  that is, £10,172:57.
By that time,  Mr C had made  monthly payments totalling £1,020:24. Deducting  that gives  a 
new outstanding  balance of £9,152:33 (at the end of 2017).
Mr C has pointed out that some of that £1,020:24 consisted of interest, and of course some 
of that interest  was interest on the £3,488:57  debt which Oodle took over from the previous 
finance provider.  He is right. But the result  of Oodle deducting the whole of the total charge 
for credit (£4,932:23) from his outstanding  balance  is that he has got all of his interest  back, 
and so the whole of the £1,020:24 he repaid now consists entirely  of a repayment of some of 
what he borrowed. So if I told Oodle  to refund the interest portion of what he paid in 2017, he 
would be getting  the interest back twice.
Since that £1,020:24 no longer consists of any interest, all of it has been  applied towards the 
repayment of the £10,172:57 Mr C borrowed.
(To be clear,  Mr Cs complaint about the part exchange is still a moot point, because if 
I upheld that complaint then Mr C would only owe the £3,488:57  to someone else instead of 
to Oodle. It doesnt matter  that interest  was charged on that amount, because  it has been 
refunded.)
I wont require Oodle  to refund  the £1,020:24, because that money  was paid to Oodle while 
Mr C still had the car. Its fair that Oodle  should  still be paid for the time Mr C had the car.
However, since Oodle  agreed  to unwind  the agreement, it should refund the £100 deposit.
In 2018, Mr C received  an insurance pay-out of £6,100 for the car accident. Another  £1,420  
would be paid for the salvage value of the car once the rights  to this were  released to the 
insurance company.  That makes a total of £7,520.  Under the terms and conditions of the 
hire purchase agreement,  all of that money belongs to Oodle. The agreement  says that while  
Mr C has any of that money, he is holding it on trust for Oodle: it is not his to keep.  So Oodle 
asked for Mr C to hand it over, and told him it would be used to reduce his outstanding 
balance from £9,152:33 to £1,632.33. Oodle said that if Mr C couldnt afford to pay 
£1,632.33 all at once, then he could pay it in monthly instalments  either by paying the 
same amount each  month as he had been paying  under  the agreement  (which would pay it 
off in seven months),  or, if he preferred, to pay a much smaller amount each month  over the 
rest of the five years term of the agreement. The latter option would have been about £30 a 
month. That seems to me to be a very reasonable proposal.
However, Mr C only paid Oodle £4,747  of the insurance money,  and kept the rest, contrary  
to the terms and conditions. That means  he still owes Oodle £4,405:33 (that is, £9,152:33 
minus £4,747).
Off-setting the refund of the deposit against  that sum will reduce it to £4,305:33.
Ref: DRN08784984I have seen no evidence  which  suggests  that Mr C owes Oodle less than that amount, or 
that Oodle has made  a mistake (other than by not refunding the deposit). I cannot  agree that 
Mr C has been saddled  with an enormous debt, as he argues, because Oodle is only asking 
him to repay what it lent him and no more.  Oodle has set out a sensible and fair solution for 
how the money can be repaid. Most of Mr Cs debt could have been  and indeed  should 
have been  repaid using the insurance  money he received. Thats  what it was for. It was 
more money than the price of the car when  it was sold. What was left over of Mr Cs debt 
could have been repaid  very easily by paying  a modest amount each month  for no longer 
than the remaining term of the original  agreement.  I can see no good reason for not doing 
that.
my final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  Oodle Financial Services 
Limited to refund to Mr C the £100 deposit  he paid for the car, but Oodle may comply with 
this award by off-setting it against the money Mr C owes to Oodle. I do not uphold the rest of 
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0878498