K820x#14complaint
Mrs E says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs E bought the policy in 1999  at the same time as taking out a credit  card in a branch.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Es case.
While I know this will disappoint Mrs E, I do not think this particular  PPI policy  was mis-sold  
Ill explain  why.
Mrs Es credit  card application  had a section for extra features. There was a box that could 
be ticked if she wanted PPI, or which could be left blank  if she didnt want it. The box was 
ticked, and Mrs E signed and dated the application  to confirm her choices. The application 
form was printed out rather  than hand-written, but I can see the adviser went through 
Mrs Es personal and financial details in order  to fill it out, so I think its most likely they 
discussed the section with PPI, too. And ultimately, Mrs E signed the form to confirm she 
agreed with what was put down. So I think its most  likely that Halifax made  Mrs E aware she 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though  I can 
understand if she no longer remembers doing so after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs E, which means they had to check it was right for her. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. And from what  
Mrs E has told us, she doesnt seem to have had any other protection  through work in case 
she was off sick or lost her job, aside from the very limited statutory benefits.
I understand Mrs Es family may have been  more  than willing  to help, but circumstances 
change and there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. Further, 
this card was Mrs Es sole responsibility,  and I dont think it wouldve been suitable  for Lloyds 
to have recommended she rely on someone  else to pay it. And the PPI meant she wouldnt 
have to ask her family to pay her credit  card. Overall,  it looks like the PPI couldve been  
useful for Mrs E in her circumstances.
Ref: DRN02727892Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mrs E about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs E chose to take out the policy, which implies she wanted 
this type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the 
policys main exclusions  or limitations, and it could have been  useful for Mrs E if something 
went wrong. Then if her circumstances changed or she changed  her mind, Mrs E could 
cancel the policy at any time without a penalty.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI was likely to have  put her off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0272789