K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Erudio Student Loans  Limited (Erudio) misinformed him about his 
right to settle  his student loan early on a reduced  balance.
background
When Mr W called Erudio in February  2015 he said he wanted  to understand what hed save  
if he paid the debt off early. But he says that Erudio told him no settlements were available  
and, as hes since discovered that other  students have been offered settlement figures, he 
says hes missed  out on an opportunity to settle  the debt sooner and for less money.
So he contacted Erudio and complained. They listened to the call hed had with them but 
they didnt think  a settlement figure  had been  discussed. They  explained that their agent had 
provided accurate  information when they explained that a lump sum would reduce the 
balance but noted that, thereafter, no settlement figure was discussed. And they went on to 
explain that any settlement figure would be at their discretion and wasnt part of Mr Ws 
contractual rights. So they didnt  think theyd done anything wrong.
But Mr W did and he therefore referred  his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator also 
listened to the call but it was her impression that the Erudio representative hadnt understood 
the questions  Mr W had posed and she therefore didnt think  it would be fair to suggest 
Erudio had acted  inappropriately.  She also agreed with them that a reduced settlement was 
not a contractual right and was therefore  at Erudios  discretion. She didnt think Erudio 
needed to take any further action.
But Mr W disagreed and he therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive also listened  to the call. Mr W initially discusses the monthly payments and his 
deferment and then says the purpose  of his call is to find out how overtime  payments would 
impact on his repayments. 
He asks about a settlement in a brief two minute  conversation at the end of the call. I think  
its pretty clear that the representative doesnt  understand what  is being requested. The 
representative tells him he can make  a payment to reduce his balance and, whilst this isnt 
wrong, its not what Mr W was asking. I think its most likely Mr W would  have understood 
Ref: DRN01759862that the representative hadnt understood as well and could have rephrased his question  or 
written to Erudio if he wanted  a thorough  response. 
But I dont think it would  be reasonable to then hold Erudio responsible for something that 
they didnt know  they were  being  asked. Im not persuaded that they misinformed Mr W.
Erudio are under no contractual  commitment  to offer reduced  settlements so I dont think  
they need to take any further  action  here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0175986