K820x#14complaint
I, a limited company,  complains that HSBC  UK Bank Plc closed its bank account causing it 
inconvenience and financial  loss.
background
HSBC wrote to I in March  2017 about  its requirement for information as part of an exercise 
called safeguard to help prevent fraud and financial loss. It says that it closed the account in 
December 2017  as it had not received all the information it needed. But it accepted  that 
there had been  a breakdown in communication and offered to pay I £850  and provide a letter 
it could show to its suppliers to explain any difficulty in making payments. There was further 
email correspondence  with HSBC and this offer was increased to £1,000. But it said that the 
company had not demonstrated that it had made  a financial loss.
Our investigator did not recommend that HSBC do anything further. He said that if the 
company wanted  to make a claim for financial loss it would need to submit  information 
demonstrating this.
The company did not agree. It said that it had provided what  HSBC had needed in May and 
June 2017. It had only been told of the 60 day notice period for closure  applying  if it had not 
provided the information. It said that its online platform sales were £3,000 less and that its 
direct sales  were £2,000  down as a result. I said it had difficulty paying its suppliers and did 
not have enough stock.  And if HSBC would  not accept what  it had provided it wanted to 
know what it would accept. HSBC  had also held onto the money in its account of over 
£12,500 and would  not have released  this unless  it had asked  it to.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has accepted fault here in the sense that although there was information it needed 
from I it did not tell I that. It draws  a distinction  between telling I that it did not need anything 
further but not telling  it that the review was completed. Im afraid  thats not something I think 
makes any difference  here. The result was the same in that it had not told I after September 
2017 that there was still information  it needed  in fact quite the opposite.  So although the 
company knew that its account could be closed if it didnt provide the information needed it 
thought it had provided this and did not know  that its account  would be closed on 11 
December 2017.
Given that finding I see no merit in going through all the stages  up to that point as HSBC  has 
been unable  in any event to explain to this service what  information  was outstanding and 
what the apparent  document discrepancies  it mentions were.
HSBC issued a cheque for the closing balance to I with a letter dated 12 December 2017 
and which  I said it received on 15 December 2017. Im not able to conclude that there was 
an unreasonable delay or that HSBC  acted outside  its normal procedures when closing an 
account. I accept though  the difficulty for the company in not being able to bank a cheque 
until it had an operational account elsewhere.
Ref: DRN00690472Its up to I to demonstrate  a specific financial  loss. The information Ive seen is a chart  
comparing its platform sales for the two months ending 30 April 2019 to the same  period in 
2018. Sales in 2019 were up over 150 per cent compared to 2018.  Im afraid that doesnt 
show that the lower  sales in the previous year were  due to not having a bank account. For 
example it may only show that I was a growing  business and there  are a number of factors 
that could have been involved. I think the company has had a reasonable opportunity to 
provide evidence but if it had say shown that a supplier had cancelled  an order  or that it 
could not supply customers as it did not have stock that may have assisted. I appreciate  that 
this was difficult to do.
Instead an offer has been made  for inconvenience   and I as a company cannot  suffer  
distress. It had to open a new bank account and deal with its suppliers. This diverted  time 
from its activities and it did not have immediate access to the funds that had been in its bank 
account. HSBC  originally offered to pay I £850  but in further email exchanges made  a final 
offer of £1,000. It will also write a repair of reputation letter  for its suppliers  on request to try 
and mitigate any reputational damage. Having taken into account everything I know  about 
what happened and the companys comments I judge that offer to be a reasonable one to 
settle the complaint and I wont be asking HSBC  to do anything more. 
my final decision
HSBC has already made I an offer to pay £1,000 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision  is that HSBC  Bank UK Plc should pay I 
£1,000.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0069047