K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs J says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Js signed  credit  agreement. On it there  is a section related to 
PPI and the box opting for the policy has a handwritten tick in it. Mrs J has signed 
directly below this so I think its likely to reflect what she wanted. And theres  nothing  on 
the form to suggest the PPI was compulsory.  So on balance I think  its likely Halifax made 
it clear that Mrs J didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why she cant  remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs J so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Mrs J says she wouldve received some sick pay at the time the policy was sold. She 
also says she had a life insurance  and critical illness insurance policy  in place. But the 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay she wouldve received  and for up to 
12 months if she was unable to work because of accident or sickness. It also wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months if she lost her job. The PPI also wouldve provided different 
cover to that of the life insurance and critical illness policy.  So I think  she wouldve found 
the policy useful.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs J has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs J paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs J back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs J now Ive issued my final decision  if it has not 
done so already. 
Ref: DRN01764662my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0176466