K820x#14complaint
Ms Bs complaint is that she was discriminated  against by HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) when 
she tried to open an account online.
background
Ms B has a physical disability and has retired from work due to ill health. She receives a 
pension that is not subject  to National Insurance, and a government benefit  thats  not taxed. 
In September  2018, Ms B completed  an online application for an Advance account with 
HSBC. One of the requirements to open the account was that a minimum monthly deposit be 
made. But when  Ms B entered her income,  HSBCs  system automatically deducted tax and 
NI, and this brought her income  figure  beneath the minimum required. As such, her online 
application was declined.
Ms B then went into branch to explain her income  position, and open the account in person. 
This took two visits, which was difficult for her given her disability. But the account was 
eventually opened.
Ms B complained as she believed HSBCs systems were  discriminatory  and caused her 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Had it not been for the system that didnt 
recognise non-taxable income, she says shed  have been able to open the account easily 
from home, and avoided the two branch visits. She believes that HSBCs system 
discriminates against people who receive income  and benefits  of this kind,  and she didnt 
think it was fair. She compared HSBC to other high street banks, where  she was able to 
open a similar type of account very easily at home.
HSBC listened  to and upheld her complaint, and in October 2018 credited Ms Bs account 
with £100 as a compensatory gesture. It also apologised  and said it would take remedial 
steps regarding  its online application systems, and that the relevant information had been 
passed to the department in question.
But Ms B didnt think this was enough.  She brought her complaint to our service, seeking an 
apology from HSBC,  further compensation, and a change in its systems.
Our investigator looked into matters, and agreed  that Ms B hadnt  been treated fairly. 
However, she also felt that HSBC  had already taken appropriate and sufficient steps  to 
resolve matters. She felt that the compensation of £100 was fair, and that HSBC  had taken 
the complaint  seriously and was looking into the deficiency in its online system. On this 
basis, she said she couldnt  uphold the complaint.
Ms B disagreed, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that HSBCs already done  enough to 
satisfactorily resolve matters, so I wont be upholding the complaint.
Ref: DRN06477692I do appreciate Ms Bs strength of feeling about what  happened when she tried to open the 
account online. And its to her credit  that she felt this was an issue  affecting not only her, but 
many others like her, that she chose to take a principled stand  and bring the matter to 
HSBCs, and our, attention. Its thanks to people like Ms B that were able to help our society  
improve and evolve into a fairer one.
So in not upholding the complaint, Im not at all seeking to minimise the importance of this 
matter. But my role is to look at whats happened, and decide if I think HSBCs acted fairly. 
Although I agree that initially it doesnt seem like their online system is equally fair to all 
potential customers,  once Ms B made it aware  of this deficiency Im satisfied that it took it 
seriously and passed  it up the line to the relevant  internal departments. Im also satisfied it 
dealt with Ms B fairly when she complained, by apologising, explaining what it would do re its 
systems, and paying the £100  compensation.
I know Ms B found it difficult  visiting  the branch on the two occasions, and felt that on the 
second she was again discriminated against due to where the meeting  was held. But the 
evidence I have from HSBC confirms that both meetings took place downstairs. I accept 
perhaps one of the rooms may have  been a little cold, but I cant say that this means HSBC 
has an overall accessibility issue in branch such that Ms B was discriminated against  on this 
occasion.
Whats really important in this complaint  which Im sure Ms B will agree  is that the 
unfairness in HSBCs  online application  system  is acknowledged and addressed  for the 
benefit of all customers. And Im satisfied from what Ive seen from HSBC that its taking this 
matter seriously and looking to take any necessary action.  Its also apologised for its poor 
service.
On the matter of compensation, as I believe this complaint was more about  the matter  of 
principal, and I can see that HSBC took reasonable steps to resolve  matters  in a timely  way, 
I think the £100 its already paid is fair. So I wont be asking it to increase  this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0647769