K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Automobile Association Insurance  Services  Limited (AA)  renewed his 
membership for the motor  breakdown  cover  he took out in 2014  without his agreement.
background
In 2014 Mr Cs car broke down. A passing  AA patrol offered to assist and Mr C agreed to 
breakdown membership, using the agents  on-board computer. Mr C says he only agreed to 
one years membership.  In 2018 he noticed  a sum had been taken from his bank account by 
AA. When he queried  it, AA told him hed agreed to continuous membership, so it had been  
renewed every year from 2015 onwards. AA refunded the 2018 charge. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Cs complaint. He noted  that AA could show it sent 
an introductory letter to Mr C just after he took out membership. The letter  said (in bold print) 
that it would  renew  automatically unless Mr C told AA he didnt want that to happen. The 
investigator noted that AA had also sent a renewal letter to the address Mr C gave it each 
year prior to renewal. When Mr C changed his address, AA didnt know that, as its letters 
werent returned. He thought AA had acted fairly  by refunding the 2018 payment. 
Mr C said unless AA could show him the agreement he signed, he wouldnt accept that hed 
agreed to automatic renewal. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed  to me 
for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
AA says Mr C signed  up for membership  using its agents computer, in the same  way hed 
have done using his own computer. It says it doesnt  have a signed agreement from him to 
provide. Although Mr C is sure he signed  an agreement on the screen,  AA says that wasnt 
possible at the time and still isnt now when patrols  arrange membership. I dont think  Mr C 
can show theres a signed  agreement. And if there  were, I cant see why AA wouldnt  provide 
it, as all the other records show that Mr C agreed  to annual renewal.
AA says it sent Mr C a welcome letter only three  days  after he took out membership with it. 
Mr C says he didnt live at the address he gave AA for very long. But presumably,  he was 
still living there three days later. AAs computerised record  shows  that the letter was 
produced. Mr C says unless the letter  and further  correspondence were sent by registered 
post, theres no proof they were  sent.  But theres  no requirement on a business  to send 
correspondence by registered or recorded  delivery. We take the view that if computer 
records show a letter was produced, its more likely than not that it was sent. 
I think its more likely than not that Mr C got the welcome letter from AA. The letter  made it 
clear that hed agreed to automatic renewal, so it was for Mr C to advise AA if he thought 
that wasnt right. Its possible that Mr C didnt get the letter  - or he may not have  read it. 
Either way, I dont think he can show that AA was at fault. Furthermore, when Mr C changed  
his address, I think it was for him to advise insurers and others - including  AA  of that. 
AAs computerised  record shows that letters were sent to Mr C at his original address each 
year prior to renewal, in order to give him the chance to say he didnt want it. Each  letter 
Ref: DRN04885542showed the increase in the sum to be charged  for the next year. I appreciate  that after the 
first year, Mr C probably didnt get the letters, as hed changed his address. But his bank  
account was debited each year. Mr C didnt notice that until 2018. So as far as AA was 
concerned, he was happy with the renewal  and the sum charged each year for it. 
I think AAs decision to refund the 2018  payment was more than fair. I dont think it was 
obliged to do that, so it was purely  a gesture of goodwill.  As I dont think Mr Cs been able to 
show that AA did anything wrong, I cant uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Susan Ewins  
ombudsman                    
Ref: DRN0488554