K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC, trading  as Barclaycard, mis-sold him a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C took out a credit card in 1981. There was no PPI policy  sold at this time alongside this 
credit card. However, Mr C was later sold a PPI policy in connection with this card on the 
phone in 1988. Barclays have already upheld the complaint about that policy. The 1988 
policy was cancelled in July 2001  at the same time as Mr C was sold an upgraded PPI policy  
during a telephone call. This complaint  relates to the PPI policy sold in 2001.
The PPI cost 75p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. It would have paid 10% of 
the monthly outstanding balance for up to 12 months if Mr C was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld because the call script  
Barclays have provided doesnt clearly ask for Mr Cs consent  to the policy. Barclays 
disagreed and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Having done that, I uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
Barclays had to make it clear to Mr C that the PPI was optional and needed to get his 
consent before it could  be applied to the account.  Barclays have told us that the call to Mr C 
was an outbound call selling an upgraded PPI policy.  I havent  seen sufficient  evidence  to 
conclude that this was the script  that would have been used  during  the sale. But even if this 
is the script  that was used, I dont think it did clearly  ask for Mr Cs consent.  
The call script shows that the representative  would have been  instructed to read out 
information about the upgraded policy  and then asked how  does this sound? Barclays  say 
this is an open  question and could invite any response, positive or negative. However,  the 
point is that Barclays  should clearly have  asked Mr C whether or not he wanted to take the 
policy out. And I cant conclude based alone  on the way this question  was asked that Mr C 
clearly consented  to taking the policy out. 
So Im not satisfied that Mr C actually  consented to taking PPI when the policy was sold to 
him in 2001. It follows that I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
fair compensation
Barclays should put Mr C in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.Barclays should find out how much Mr C would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
Ref: DRN05067052So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr C owes and what he would 
have owed.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes his.
B.If  when Barclays works out what Mr C would  have  owed each  month without PPI     
Mr C paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr C paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when  
Mr C wouldve owed Barclays something  on his credit  card.  The interest  rate should be 
15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
C.Barclays should tell Mr C what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he ask[s]  for one.
I know that Barclays made an offer to refund some of the commission  they received for      
Mr Cs PPI premiums.  If this has already  been  paid to Mr C, Barclays  can take off what  he 
got for the commission  from the amount they owe him. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint  against  Barclays Bank UK PLC and require them  to pay Mr C 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0506705