K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the decision  by The Ancient Order of Foresters Friendly  Society  
Limited (Foresters Friendly) to turn down his personal accident claim.
background
In 2018, Mr B had a below knee amputation. He made a claim under  the policy, and 
Foresters Friendly assessed  the claim against  the loss of use benefit and permanent  and 
total disability (PTD) benefit.
Foresters Friendly then turned down the claim.  It didnt think  Mr B had had an accident,  as 
required by the policy terms.  Unhappy with this, Mr B brought  a complaint  to this service.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  the available  
evidence didnt support that Mr Bs injury met the policy definition of an accident. She 
therefore concluded Foresters Friendly had reasonably turned down the claim.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators findings,  so the matter has been  passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Under the PTD benefit in the policy, it says:
This benefit is payable  on the Permanent Total Disability  of a Benefit Participant  provided 
that such disability  occurs as a result of an Accident occurring during the currency of this 
policy
And under the Loss of Use benefit in the policy, it says:
A Benefit Participant will be considered as having suffered Loss  of Use if that Benefit 
Participant permanently  loses the use of a facility. The loss of a facility  means  the loss of the 
sight of one or two eyes, or the total loss of use of one or more  limbs at or above  the wrist or 
ankle, or suffers permanent total loss of hearing.  The benefit  is payable only if the Loss of 
Use occurs as the result  of an Accident occurring during the currency of this policy
Accident is defined in the policy as:
A sudden, violent, unexpected and unusual specific event caused  by an external force  that 
occurs at an identifiable time and place and results  in a physical injury to the Benefit 
Participant. Physical injury due to exposure to the elements is included in this definition.
As I understand it, Mr B was working in very hot weather.  He developed an ulcer  on his foot 
and says this was because of sweat collecting in his boots due to the weather (he describes 
this as trench foot/immersion foot). 
Mr Bs surgeon has confirmed that Mr B developed an ulcer. And that this, in combination 
with an existing medical condition, led to ongoing  problems with ulceration and a recurrent 
Ref: DRN09797612bone infection. The surgeon  explained Mr B had the amputation because  of an inability to 
control the infection. 
There does seem to be a link between the initial ulcer and Mr Bs resulting amputation, even  
if the ulcer wasnt the sole cause  of the recurring  infection that led to the amputation. In such 
circumstances, so long as the initial ulcer  significantly contributed to the recurring infection, it 
may be fair for a proportionate  payment to be made. However, before I can consider this, Id 
need to be satisfied that Mr Bs injury was caused  by an accident  (as defined in the policy).
Mr B says he developed  trench foot/immersion foot because of the sweat  collecting in his 
boots due to the heat he was working  in. And after a while the skin broke and the injury  (the 
ulcer) was caused. 
I understand that trench foot/immersion foot can lead to ulcers. However, I havent seen any 
supporting evidence that Mr B developed trench  foot/immersion foot, or that it was this which  
led to him developing the ulcer on his foot. 
Nevertheless, assuming  he did have  trench  foot/immersion foot, I dont think  this could be 
said to be a sudden, violent event  that occurred at an identifiable  time and place.  My 
understanding is that this condition develops over a period of time when the foot/feet  arent  
kept dry. Consequently, I dont think trench foot/immersion foot falls under the definition  of 
an accident.
The policy also says that physical injury due to exposure to the elements is included in the 
accident definition.  Whilst I understand Mr B was working in very hot weather, I think  its too 
much of a leap to say that the ulcer was due to exposure to the elements.  The weather didnt 
directly cause the injury.  Rather the trench  foot/immersion foot resulted from prolonged 
exposure to sweat in Mr Bs boots,  and this then led to the ulcer.
Whilst I recognise my decision will disappoint  Mr B, I think it was reasonable for Foresters 
Friendly to turn down  the claim.  
Mr B has expressed concerns about the way in which Foresters Friendly  initially told him the 
claim was being turned  down. Ive looked at this letter,  and Im in agreement with our 
investigator that the letter didnt make it clear why Foresters Friendly was turning down the 
claim. However, I think Foresters then made the reasons  clear  in its final response letter  to 
Mr B.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0979761