K822xcomplaint
Mr W has complained about the actions of Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
(L&G) when  it reviewed the transfer  of his deferred  pension benefits in a former employers 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) to a Buyout policy (BOP).
Mr W has also complained about the fact that the benefits that he received from his 
Self Employed Pension (SEP) were not backdated to his selected retirement age of 60 and 
the benefits from the BOP were not backdated to age 65.
background 
Following my jurisdiction decision setting out that the complaint about original transfer to the 
BOP, was not in the jurisdiction of this Service, I am only considering the issues  that relate to 
the payment of benefits from the BOP and SEP.
Mr W reached his 60th birthday on 22 November  2011 and his 65th birthday on                        
22 November 2016.
In July and September 2011  letters were  sent to Mr W before his 60th birthday. The letters  
set out the options available under the SEP policy and stated that if Mr W wanted to take 
benefits he should let L&G know. The letters also explained that his pension benefits  would 
be deferred if he did not take benefits  and would be invested differently. They would be 
invested in a deposit fund.  
On 23 November 2011 L&G wrote again to Mr W and said as it had not heard from him his 
plan had been deferred. It explained again  that the plan would be invested in the deposit 
fund until it heard from him.
On 20 January 2012 Mr W requested illustrations of the benefits payable  under his policies. 
These illustrations were issued to Mr W.
In July and September 2016  before the BOP retirement date (22 November 2016) Mr W was 
sent details of his retirement options.
On 22 November 2016 Mr W had his 65th birthday.
In January 2017, Mr W contacted L&G and asked for the values of both of his pension plans. 
During the telephone call he was referred  to a nurse  so his medical  condition  could be 
assessed to check  if he was entitled  to an enhanced  annuity  rate. 
Following the call with the nurse Mr W was expecting  a call back  but this did not happen.     
Mr W did not contact L&G until 7 July 2017  because of his medical  issues. 
On 27 July 2017 Mr W complained to L&G.  
Initially L&G offered Mr W £150  for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr W spoke  to 
several people  at length about what happened and how unhappy he was at L&Gs handling 
of the matter. He thought that he was due the back payments on his annuity from the SEP 
from when he was 60 in 2011, and the back-payments on the BOP  from his 65th birthday in 
2016.
Ref: DRN07400702On 20 October 2017 L&G apologised  for the delay in replying to him following the call in 
September 2017. L&G also apologised  for not getting back to him following his call with the 
nurse. However L&G did not agree  the benefits  from the SEP should be backdated to his 
60th birthday as he was sent the required information before his 60th birthday. This set out 
what would  happen  in the event that he did not contact  L&G.  
L&G stated  it was prepared to back date the payment of benefits from the SEP to 
January 2017  but not the BOP. L&G noted  that the guaranteed  minimum  pension  (GMP) 
under the BOP had been increased after age 65 until the date it had started  to be paid. L&G 
offered   Mr W another £500 for the trouble and upset caused. The value  of the BOP fund 
and the value of the pension review redress that had been paid in the past were not 
sufficient to cover the cost of the GMP benefit and the shortfall  was met by L&G. In line with 
the BOP terms and conditions L&G paid the GMP to Mr W. It also paid the backdated 
benefits from the SEP.
The adjudicator partly upheld the complaint. 
The adjudicator noted that the initial response  did not fully address all of the issues and 
there was a delay  of some five weeks from when L&G spoke to Mr W in early  
September 2017 until it issued its Final Response Letter in October 2017. L&Gs  benefits  
from the BOP started to be paid on 1 December 2017.
The adjudicator understood things were difficult for Mr W as he was in ill health. She did not 
agree the SEP should  be backdated to Mr Ws 60th birthday  as the required retirement  
wake up letters were issued to Mr W.
Whilst she noted that Mr W had said he had not received  the wake up letters she considered 
that at least one of the three  letters would  have been received. She agreed the £650 for 
trouble and upset  was reasonable.
The adjudicator also considered that it was reasonable  for the benefits  from the SEP to be 
backdated to January  2017 but thought  8% interest should have been applied  to the back  
dated payments.  
The adjudicator said she did not think the BOP payments should be backdated to 2016, as 
L&G would expect  a policyholder to carry out certain actions for a pension payment to be 
received. The adjudicator  noted that the required retirement wake up letters  had been sent 
to Mr W. However  she did think that L&G caused  some delay in the setting up the benefits 
under the BOP and these should be backdated  by one month.  This would provide one 
months annuity payment but would  result in a lower  annuity going  forward.
L&G agreed with the redress proposed by the adjudicator.
Mr W did not agree and made several submissions. In summary  he said 
The letters from 2011 were not in plain  English,  and at no point  was it made clear to 
him that his annuity would not be backdated  along with interest at 0.5%, or that he 
would lose out financially. 
Too much  emphasis had been placed  on whether he did or did not receive the wake 
up letters.
Ref: DRN07400703The £650 does  not compensate him for his losses and L&G were just trying  to shut 
down his complaint.
He has serious health conditions  and in 2016 was in no fit state to reply to L&G.  The 
issue is that L&G never called him back and he was too ill to chase it up.
He never  discussed the BOP with the nurse  during  the call but L&G are placing so 
much emphasis on this part that he never  had the opportunity to resolve it, as they 
never called  him back.
L&G had forgotten  to write to him with the final response following the telephone call 
in September  2017.
He wanted  the BOP  back-dated to January  2017 when he first called L&G or at least 
to July 2017 when he complained. It would take many years to be put him back  into 
the position he would have been  in had the BOP been paid out in January 2017.
As agreement has not been reached  the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that it is more likely than not that L&G did send Mr W the required letters for the SEP 
in 2011 advising  him that he was approaching his selected retirement age under the SEP.  I, 
like the adjudicator, consider that at least one of the three letters  would have been delivered  
to Mr W. I say this because the vast majority of correctly addressed  post arrives at the 
correct address.
Under the SEP there was no need to take benefits on the selected  retirement  age of 60 and 
it is possible to take benefits at a later date. If Mr W did not want  to take benefits  then the 
letters set out what would  happen. If Mr W was uncertain as to what the letters  meant then, 
in my opinion, he could have contacted L&G at that time to discuss any concerns that he 
had. I note that Mr W did not contact L&G.
It was only in January  2017 that Mr W contacted L&G to discuss his pension plans. He was 
referred to a nurse  so that his medical  conditions could  be assessed to see if he was eligible 
for enhanced annuity rates. 
L&G did not contact  Mr W after this call as it should  have  done  and has agreed that it will 
backdate the benefits  payable from the SEP to this date. It has also agreed that it will now 
add interest to the late payments. In my opinion this is appropriate in the circumstances of 
this case.
I do not agree that the benefits should  be backdated  to Mr Ws 60th birthday in 2011 as     
L&G would not have been aware that Mr W was seeking to take benefits at that time. 
Under the BOP  benefits could be payable from the selected retirement age of 65. At that 
time a comparison would be carried out between  the amount  that the policy  and the redress  
policy could provide and the level of the Guaranteed  Minimum Pension (GMP) required 
under the legislation. In this case the GMP was more valuable than the policy plus the 
redress policy.
Where the payment of any GMP benefit  is deferred  after state pension age it has to be 
increased in line with the rules that are set down in the legislation.
Ref: DRN07400704I note that in this case L&G paid the GMP from 1 December 2017  but following discussions 
with the adjudicator has agreed to backdate the start of the payment  of the pension by 
another month to 1 November  2017.
It has also agreed to add 8% per annum simple interest to the backdated pension  payments 
under the BOP that it will need to pay. 
In my opinion this offer is fair and reasonable and in line with what  I would award.
Finally I note that L&G has offered Mr W a total of £650 for the distress and inconvenience 
that he has suffered  and the failings that it has acknowledged arose when dealing  with his 
two pension plans.  In my opinion  this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Legal  and General Assurance Society  Limited and I direct 
that pay redress and benefits as follows.
Under the SEP benefits from the plan should be treated as if payable  from 1 January 2017.
Under the BOP  benefits should  be determined and paid as from 1 November 2017.
Interest should  be added  to any payments that are paid late at the rate of 8% per annum 
simple from the date the payment was due to the date of settlement.
In addition Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited should pay Mr W a total amount of 
£650 for the distress and inconvenience  that he has suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Adrian Hudson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0740070