K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  was irresponsible to lend to 
him. Mr K wants a refund  of interest and charges applied to the loans.
background
Mr K took out five loans with Mr Lender between  April 2014  and July 2015. A summary of his 
lending is as follows:
Loan one for £250 taken in April 2014
Loan two for £400 taken in May 2014 
Loan three for £317 taken in September 2014  to be repaid by six monthly  instalments 
the highest of which  was £132.  
Loan four for £550 taken in February 2015  to be repaid  by six monthly instalments 
the highest of which  was £213.  
Loan five for £800 in July 2015 to be repaid by six monthly instalments the highest of 
which was £283.
Mr K says that he was reliant on payday  loans  and that with better checks; Mr Lender 
wouldve discovered that he couldnt afford to repay the loans in a sustainable way.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ks complaint be upheld. She thought that before 
agreeing loan one Mr Lender shouldve found out about Mr Ks other  short term loans. And 
that if Mr Lender had done  this, it wouldve seen that Mr K had outstanding  loans  to other 
lenders of more  than £1,160. This meant that Mr K wasnt left with enough money  to afford 
loan one or any of the other  loans.
The adjudicator thought  that if Mr Lender  had carried out better  checks it wouldve seen that 
Mr K couldnt afford to repay  any of the loans in a sustainable way. 
The adjudicator asked Mr Lender to refund interest and charges on loans  one to five and pay 
interest on the refund. She also recommended  that Mr Lender remove any negative  
information about the loans from Mr Ks credit file.
Mr Lender doesnt agree  with the adjudicators recommendation. It asks whether weve 
looked at Mr Ks bank  statements around  the time of loan one. Mr Lender  says that there  
was a gap of almost  three months  between repaying  loan two and taking  out loan three. Mr 
Lender suggests that loan three  is a new chain of borrowing. It points to further gaps in 
lending as evidence  that Mr K wasnt  reliant on short term lending.
Mr Lender says it carried out credit checks which showed that Mr K had an above average  
credit score. Mr Lender couldnt see any defaults  or late payments within the previous three 
years.
Ref: DRN03790842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that  
Mr K could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing in mind Mr Lenders response to our adjudicators  assessment, I think that it is 
important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender  was required to establish  whether Mr K 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments  were affordable  on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise  or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they have a history  of failing 
to settle loans or they have to repay  a significant  proportion of their monthly  salary.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Ref: DRN03790843When Mr K took out loan one it was early on in his borrowing relationship  with Mr Lender so 
there wasnt any history to consider. However Mr Lender expected Mr K to repay more than 
a quarter of his declared monthly income  of £1,250.
I think that adequate checks shouldve included  Mr Lender asking  Mr K about  his living  costs  
and financial  commitments, including whether he had any other outstanding short  term 
loans.
As far as I can see Mr Lender didnt ask Mr K about his other payday loans. If it had done 
this, it seems likely  it wouldve discovered that he owed other lenders more than £1,100. 
This left Mr K with less than £150 for all of his living costs and other outgoings. I dont  think 
this was enough to say that Mr K could  afford  to repay loan one in a sustainable way  that 
is without borrowing further.  And I think the same applies to the remaining loans that Mr K 
took. It doesnt seem to me that his circumstances materially changed making any of the 
other loans  sustainably repayable either.
Mr Lender has asked  whether weve considered Mr Ks bank statements around the time of 
loan one. With respect to Mr Lender  I dont consider this is necessary. Mr Lender has told us 
what outgoings Mr K declared.  As this service  is dealing  with some of Mr Ks complaints  
about other short term lenders weve been  able to verify how much  money  Mr K owed to at 
least some  of the other lenders.
If Mr Lender had carried out the proportionate checks  that I think were reasonable, I dont 
consider it wouldve agreed loan one or any of the subsequent loans.
Mr K has lost out as a result so Mr Lender  should pay him compensation.
putting things right 
To put things right, PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr K paid on loans one to five; 
Pay interest of 8% simple a year * on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; and
Remove any negative  information about loans one to five from Mr Ks credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
It must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN03790844my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint about PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr 
Lender). To put things right, Mr Lender  should  take the steps outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0379084