K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about  problems  and delays they experienced when trying to transfer 
funds to an account abroad. 
Background
Mr and Mrs Rs pensions were paid into a Bank  of Scotland account. Mr and Mrs R live 
abroad and have previously been able to instruct Bank of Scotland to transfer the funds to 
an account they hold in their country of residence  by fax. But Bank  of Scotland  withdrew that 
service and Mr and Mrs R were  registered for online banking  in order  to instruct  an 
international transfer. 
There were significant  delays in receiving the necessary letters and activation codes. It 
appears that post wasnt delivered in good time which meant that the activation codes 
expired before they could  be used.  
The situation  persisted for several months  and in November  2018 Bank of Scotlands fraud 
team placed  a block on the account because of suspicious activity. The block  was later lifted. 
Mr and Mrs R complained  to Bank  of Scotland which has issued several  responses.  Bank  of 
Scotland agreed that there were some service  issues  and paid Mr and Mrs R £50. But it said 
the delays Mr and Mrs R experienced were  outside  of its control  and it had no influence on 
the postal service. Bank of Scotland said Mr and Mrs R needed to successfully complete its 
online banking enrolment process before a transfer  could  be instructed. 
Mr and Mrs R referred  their complaint  to our service and it was passed to an adjudicator.  
The adjudicator thought  Bank of Scotland had dealt with the complaint fairly. During the 
adjudicators investigation  Bank of Scotland was able to provide alternative options that 
would allow Mr and Mrs R to transfer  their funds as required.  In July 2019  Mr and Mrs R 
confirmed they had been able to successfully get their money. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept the adjudicators  view so their complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs R are upset.  They wanted to transfer their pensions  to an 
account based in the country they live in and the situation took a very long time to resolve. 
Im pleased Bank of Scotland  was ultimately able to agree the transfer as an exception.  
I need to decide whether the problems and delays Mr and Mrs R experienced were caused 
by Bank  of Scotland and if it should have done anything  differently. Mr and Mrs R have sent 
us a lot of information about what happened. Ive considered everything both they and Bank  
of Scotland has sent us when reaching  my decision.  I havent responded to every  point  and 
have focused  on what I feel are the key issues. I hope Mr and Mrs R wont take that 
approach as s discourtesy, it simply reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Ref: DRN07336332Bank of Scotland first sent Mr and Mrs R online registration  information  and activation codes 
in 2017. The transfer took around 20 months before it was completed. Whilst I appreciate 
thats an unreasonably long amount of time,  Im not persuaded  Bank of Scotland  was 
responsible for the delays. 
Both Bank of Scotland and Mr and Mrs R have talked about the postal service operating 
where they live. Mr and Mrs R have explained  that its often taken several months for letters  
to be delivered and that activation codes expired before they got them.  As a result,  they 
werent able to use them to activate their online account facility and transfer their money. But 
I cant hold Bank of Scotland liable for delays experienced due to a postal service  operating  
in another country. 
Mr and Mrs R asked about  other options because of the problems theyd experienced and 
Bank of Scotland was very reluctant to proceed  without  completing the online registration 
first. But the options  available to Mr and Mrs R were  very limited indeed.  The types of 
accounts they hold with Bank of Scotland meant that the situation was further  complicated  
because funds had to be transferred internally before they could be sent to their other  
account. Bank of Scotlands process means it sends the activation information out in the 
post and its entitled to decide how to enrol customers for its online service. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R but I havent been  persuaded to uphold their 
complaint. Whilst I can see the situation continued for a long time I think the main factor was 
the postal service. I know Mr and Mrs R wanted Bank of Scotland to make an exception at 
an earlier point but we cant force a business to operate outside of its standard procedures. 
Im pleased Bank of Scotland  was ultimately able to proceed on Mr and Mrs Rs instructions. 
Bank of Scotland has paid Mr and Mrs R £50 because of the service  provided. I think thats 
fair in all the circumstances so Im not telling  Bank  of Scotland  to increase the award of take 
any further action.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 February  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0733633