K821x#15complaint
Miss P says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Its been agreed Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the insurer should 
accept responsibility  for this complaint.  Although FICL didnt  actually sell the PPI, to 
keep things simple  Ill refer just to FICL  in my decision.
background
Miss P was sold a PPI policy when she applied for a store  card in March 2002. She says she 
had a medical condition when she was sold the cover.
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Ps complaint didnt think  FICL had made it clear to her 
the PPI didnt cover accident and sickness claims caused by her medical condition. And our 
adjudicator didnt think Miss P wouldve bought the PPI if this had been made clear. 
FICL says Miss Ps condition is usually manageable and was unlikely to cause  her to have 
enough time off work for her to claim on the policy. So FICL thinks  Miss Ps medical 
condition may not have  affected her decision to buy the PPI. Its because of this that        
Miss Ps complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had a duty to give Miss P enough clear  information about  the PPI so she could make 
an informed decision about  whether  she wanted  it. From what  Ive seen, I dont think  its 
likely FICL did this. And I think if FICL had given Miss P the clear information  it shouldve, its 
likely she wouldnt  have bought the PPI.
Its likely  the policy Miss P was sold wouldnt have  covered her for accident and sickness 
claims caused by any medical condition she had when  she bought it. Miss P says had a 
medical condition  at the time.
Although Miss P hasnt given us much information  about her condition, shes been 
consistent with us about having it. She didnt tell FICL about the condition initially  but thats  
because it had told her the PPI was sold in 2001, and she says she wasnt diagnosed with 
the condition until 2002. Our adjudicator asked Miss P when  her condition was diagnosed 
and shes told us she thinks  it was the end of January/beginning of February 2002.
 
As Ive already  noted, in response to our adjudicators view on Miss Ps complaint,  FICL 
questions whether Miss Ps condition wouldve stopped her going ahead  with the PPI. 
But based  on what Miss P has said about her condition (and its a condition that can affect  
people in widely different ways), including that she was on medication for it and bearing  in 
mind it seems it had only been  recently diagnosed, I think  the exclusion its likely  the policy 
had for accident  and sickness  claims arising  from known medical conditions wouldve  
Ref: DRN04642822mattered to Miss P. But there was no information  about it on the application form she signed.  
And I havent seen  anything else to show me FICL made it clear to Miss P at the time.
I dont think its likely  Miss P wouldve gone ahead with the PPI if shed known she wasnt 
likely to have been covered if shed needed  time off work because  of her medical condition. 
It follows that I think Miss P has lost out because of what  FICL has done  wrong  and so it 
should put things right.
putting things right
FICL should put Miss P in the financial position  shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. 
So:
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss P wouldve owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss P owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss P made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss P wouldve owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss P would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Miss P paid. And it should carry on paying  interest until the point when Miss P 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year
D.FICL should tell Miss P what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Miss P a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN04642823my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Miss Ps complaint and direct  Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 October  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0464282