K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt warn her about the consequences of 
taking out a further advance if she wanted to re-mortgage. She asks for compensation for 
the cost of the early repayment charge (ERC)  and delays in re-mortgaging.
background
Miss H took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2016.  The mortgage was recommended by a 
broker. Miss H took out a fixed  interest  rate product with an ERC applying  until June 2018. 
She took out an additional loan in early  2018  recommended by Barclays.  This had a fixed  
interest rate product  with an ERC  applying until October 2019.
In June 2018 the fixed interest rate product for Miss Hs original mortgage ended. She wasnt  
happy with the products offered by Barclays and decided to re-mortgage. She wanted to re-
mortgage the original loan only to avoid paying the ERC on the additional loan. She says 
other providers wouldnt  offer mortgages  unless they had a first charge on the property. This 
wasnt possible while Barclays had a first charge.  Barclays  declined  Miss Hs request to 
either waive the ERC or offer her a better  mortgage  product. She says Barclays should have 
explained the consequences of the additional  loan and the first legal charge to her before 
she took out the additional loan.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said the 
mortgage offer clearly  set out the ERC that applied to the original loan and to the additional 
loan and when  they ended. Barclays had applied the ERC correctly. Our investigator  said 
Barclays has a first charge on the property. This would  have been  explained  to Miss H when 
she took out the mortgage. And while Miss H wasnt happy with the products offered by 
Barclays it didnt have  to offer her a special product or interest rate.
Miss H didnt agree. In summary, she said the implications of a first charge  mortgage werent 
explained to her. She said she shouldnt have to ask questions  when financial detriment is 
guaranteed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Miss H took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2016  and additional lending  in early 2018.  She 
took out products that included an ERC.  The mortgage offer for the additional  lending  sets 
out the ERCs for the original loan and the additional loan. I think the information about each 
ERC is clear, including when it ends.  
Miss H repaid the mortgage while the ERC  for the additional loan applied. I think  Barclays 
was entitled to ask her to pay the ERC. There could be circumstances where Id find it fair to 
require a lender  to waive or refund an ERC. Ive explained below why I dont think  its fair to 
do so here.
Ref: DRN04654372Barclays provided the application  form completed  when Miss H met with an adviser at her 
branch. The adviser  asked Miss H about  her circumstances  before recommending  the 
additional loan.  Miss H said she wanted to avoid paying the ERC on the existing  loan. She 
wanted stable  payments  for the new loan so she could budget. Miss H said she intended to 
stay in the property  for two years  and didnt expect any change  in circumstances. 
Barclays loans (both the original loan and the additional loan) were secured by a first charge 
on Miss Hs property. The mortgage offer says Miss H will grant  Barclays a first legal charge. 
Theres nothing to suggest Miss H was misled about  this. 
Miss H says other  providers wouldnt lend unless they had a first legal charge. I dont think  
its reasonable to say that, while any part of the secured debt is unpaid,  Barclays  should 
release its security or allow a new lenders charge to take priority over its own. 
I also dont think its reasonable to say that Barclays should have told Miss H that she might 
find it difficult to refinance  part only of her debt to Barclays. Theres  nothing in the application 
form to suggest she said she intended to do this. The advisers  recommendation says you 
seek low fixed  payments  so you can budget  but for 2 years only as after two years you will 
seek to merge both elements of mortgage and you require the lowest  rate. This suggests 
Miss H intended to keep  the two parts of her mortgage loan together. 
Barclays records also say the adviser  had checked  that Miss H was aware that she could 
take out a second charge  mortgage or unsecured lending  instead of the additional loan.
I dont think the additional  lending was mis-sold.  I dont think  Miss H was misled  about the 
terms. I dont think  Barclays treated her unfairly when it told her what mortgage  products  
were available or when  it applied  the ERC. I havent  seen evidence  Barclays  delayed  Miss H 
re-mortgaging so that its reasonable to require it to pay compensation. In the circumstances, 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require  Barclays to refund the ERC  or pay 
compensation to Miss H.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0465437