K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from the Cookstown Credit  Union Limited  
(CCU) when he attended a branch  office to make  a payment towards his account. He said 
the branch manager shouted at him and discussed  his financial circumstances publicly 
which made him feel humiliated.
background
At the relevant time Mr C was a member of the CCU. He went into the branch in order to 
make a payment.  Having  done so a manager asked if she could speak to him and he was 
asked to go to an interview area at the back of the public office.  Mr C said that the manager 
shouted at him and asked questions about  some missed payments on his account  and 
referred to his mother being a guarantor. He said he asked her not to discuss  such matters 
in a public  area and asked to speak about  it in private. When  he asked about raising a 
complaint he said he was laughed at and wasnt given details of the complaints  process.  He 
said the experience  left him feeling  humiliated and believing his privacy and confidentiality 
had been breached.
Mr C also said he had asked for any CCTV footage  of the incident  to be provided to him and 
it was not.
CCU accepted  that they had spoken  to Mr C in the area he described, but they denied  they 
had breached his confidentiality and privacy in the manner he had suggested. The manager 
denied that she had raised  her voice and said to the contrary that it was Mr C who had 
raised his voice and ultimately issued a threat in the form of youll  regret  this. 
CCU said they had explained the complaints  process  to Mr C on 3 occasions;  first of all 
verbally at the time, then when  he rang some time later and finally  when they set it out in 
writing following his complaint.
With regard to the CCTV, CCU confirmed the incident would have been recorded but that it 
would not have contained any audio recording.  They also explained that they only retained 
CCTV footage  for 31 days and Mr C had not made a formal request for it in that time. As a 
result it was no longer  available.
Mr C was unhappy with CCUs response and so an investigator from this service looked into 
the complaint  but didnt think CCU had done anything  wrong.  Mr C disagreed  and so the 
matter has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think we have an unfortunate situation  here. Mr C feels  very aggrieved  at the treatment he 
perceives he received  from CCUs staff and I am sorry to hear that he feels that way.
However, my decisions have to be based  on the available  evidence  and where  evidence  is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach  my decision on the balance of probabilities  
 in other words,  what I consider is more  likely  to have happened in light of that evidence  
and the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN03400282I do know Mr C wanted to get the CCTV footage  to support his complaint, but as a fact that 
is not available to me, since it no longer  exists.  I do acknowledge  that Mr C asked at the time 
for the footage but he never completed  a written request  for it despite being provided with 
the correct form for doing so. Furthermore,  by the time this service  became involved and 
asked for the footage it was then well beyond  the 31 day period CCU would have retained it, 
and so it was not available.  
But, even  if the footage  had been available it would not have assisted me because it did not 
have an audio  track  on it. That means  it would have been impossible for me to have heard 
what was or was not said. 
But I have seen two statements  from CCU staff confirming that the manager  did not shout, 
rather it was Mr C who had raised  his voice. Further that what  the manager and Mr C had 
spoken about could not be heard  by others. In fairness Mr C accepts he said words  to the 
effect of youll regret  this but states this was not meant to be a threat.
So I cant be satisfied on the evidence before me that there has been  any breach of 
confidentiality or that Mr C was humiliated or treated unfairly. In fact the evidence  suggests 
to the contrary that there was no such breach or unfair treatment.
I know Mr C will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same conclusion  
as the investigator  and for similar  reasons.  Im not satisfied that CCU have treated Mr C 
unfairly, so Im not going  to ask it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Cookstown Credit  Union  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0340028