K821x#15complaint
Mr T complained because he felt Endsleigh Insurance Services Ltd misled him into agreeing  
to enter  a credit hire agreement for the repair of his car following an accident,  rather  than 
claiming on his motor insurance policy.
background
Endsleigh arranged Mr Ts fully comprehensive  motor insurance policy1. Mr T called 
Endsleigh to make a claim  on his policy after he was involved  in an accident  caused by 
another driver2. Following  the call, rather than making a claim to the insurer under the policy, 
Mr T entered  into an agreement with another company (who  Ill call P). That was a credit 
hire agreement whereby  P would arrange the repairs  and provide Mr T with a hire car, and 
would then try and recover the costs from the other drivers insurer.
Mr T later complained that he was misled by Endsleigh into entering the credit hire 
agreement. He told us Endsleigh referred him to P on the pretext that P was part of 
Endsleigh and it was just the routine process of getting his car repaired and getting a 
courtesy car. He further said it was only later that he realised hed signed up to the liability  
for charges and the potential of having to go to court.
Endsleigh explained to Mr T that P operates its claims  notification line and that when a claim 
is reported P has the option to provide their services to customers  who arent responsible for 
an accident. Endsleigh said that when Mr T phoned  to report  the accident  P offered this 
option, and then sent him details of the agreement. It also pointed to a declaration in the 
agreement which confirmed that Mr T had the details  of the service explained to him and that 
he understood the basis on which  the claim had been made3. In summary, Endsleigh was 
satisfied that Mr T was made aware of the nature of the agreement  he entered  into.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think  Endsleigh  had 
shown that Mr T was given sufficient  information  in order  to make an informed  decision  
regarding the credit hire agreement. He felt that P handling the claims notification line 
created a risk of policyholders being  led towards  Ps services rather than making  a claim on 
their insurance policy. Our investigator  acknowledged that information regarding the 
agreement would likely have been  included in the documentation,  but he didnt feel this was 
the same  as Endsleigh, or P on Endsleighs behalf, clearly explaining the nature of the credit 
hire agreement during  the call.
Mr T agreed  with our investigator but Endsleigh didnt. It said Mr Ts recollection of what he 
was told is all we have  to go on and it didnt feel it was reasonable to place more weight on 
that recollection (three years prior to him complaining) than the documentation provided, 
which was sent to Mr T after the call. It also felt it was reasonable for Mr T to have read the 
documentation before  signing it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
1 For reference, Endsleigh is not Mr Ts insurer  the insurance is provided by another  company.
2 Endsleigh  has told us a recording of this call isnt available as not all calls were  recorded  at the time.
3 It wasnt  clear to me what  agreement Endsleigh was referring to as I couldnt see any document that 
Mr T had signed. I gave  Endsleigh an opportunity  to clarify this, but it didnt respond.
Ref: DRN01802212It is important  for me to highlight at the outset that the issue Ive considered here is 
Endsleigh referring  Mr T to P. I havent  considered how P handled Mr Ts claim as that 
wasnt Endsleighs  responsibility.
has there been a failure by Endsleigh?
There isnt anything inherently wrong with credit hire arrangements like the one Mr T entered 
into. They can be advantageous to policyholders because there wont be a claim made 
under their policy, the no claim discount  wont be affected, they wont have to pay their policy 
excess, and they might  get a courtesy  car that their policy doesnt  allow  for. However, 
Endsleigh has a duty to treat its customers fairly.  And if its going to introduce the option for 
customers to go down  the credit hire route  rather than claiming on their policy,  then I think to 
treat those  customers fairly it has to clearly explain what that means  so that customers  can 
make an informed decision about what to do. At the very least,  Endsleigh needs to make it 
clear what  the credit  hire arrangement is, that P is a separate business to the motor insurer, 
that the customer isnt claiming under their own insurance policy and that the customer  can 
still choose to claim  on their own motor insurance  policy.
I agree  with Endsleigh that Mr Ts recollection  of what  he was told is all we have to go on. 
But thats only because  Endsleigh cant provide a recording of the phone call. Its for 
Endsleigh to show that it treated Mr T fairly  by providing him with the relevant information  
its not the other way round. So Endsleigh  not being able to provide a recording  of the 
relevant phone call hurts its case as I cant ascertain what was discussed and, more 
importantly, what Mr T was told about the credit hire arrangement.
Ive noted Endsleighs comments about why a recording isnt available,  but that makes no 
difference to me. Its been good  practice for many  years (and certainly  going  back to 2014 
when this incident occurred)  for businesses to routinely record  calls. If Endsleigh chose not 
to record all calls, or chose to outsource some  of its work to other  companies who didnt 
record all calls, that was its commercial decision to make.  But I dont think  its fair for it to 
now rely on the lack of a call recording  in order to enhance its defence to this complaint.
Endsleigh has said that call handlers followed scripts, which highlighted  that the claim was 
made on a credit hire basis. Im not persuaded by this. I havent seen the script so I dont 
actually know what it says. But, in any event, Im not always  persuaded by scripts (without 
the relevant call recording) because  Ive listened to numerous  calls in the past when  a script 
was supposedly  followed but it wasnt.
During the call Mr T might have been  given a full and clear explanation  about the nature of 
the credit  hire agreement  and the difference between it and an insurance claim. But, equally, 
he might  not have had such an explanation. And given that P has a clear vested interest in 
getting policyholders to use its services rather than making a claim, Im more inclined to 
conclude that Mr Ts version  of events  ie that he was misled into entering the credit hire 
agreement and that he wasnt given clear information  is most likely to have happened.
I acknowledge that documentation was sent to Mr T  although, as mentioned above, none  
of what Ive seen  was actually signed  by him. But consumers are much more  likely to take 
account of what  theyre  told verbally over whats written in a contractual  document.  In any 
event, Im not persuaded the documentation  clearly explained how the credit hire 
arrangement worked. Endsleigh referred  for example to an introduction  letter P sent to Mr T 
which said:
Ref: DRN01802213the hire car and repair costs arent free
they form part of the claim against  the other driver who caused the accident
that its Ps responsibility to get payment from the other drivers insurer on Mr Ts behalf.
But to all intents and purposes this arrangement is the same as what would happen in an 
actual insurance  claim  the insurer would pay for the repairs and hire car (if covered), those 
costs would form part of the insurers claim against  the other driver, and the insurer  would try 
and get payment from the other drivers  insurer. So I dont think the documentation  
Endsleigh refers to sufficiently distinguishes between an insurance claim and a credit  hire 
arrangement.
Given the above, I conclude that Endsleigh didnt treat Mr T fairly. This is because  it hasnt 
shown that it gave him sufficient clear information to enable him to make an informed choice 
about whether  to make a claim or enter into a credit hire arrangement.
has this affected  Mr T?
I dont have much information  about  how P handled things, but I understand the claim has 
been settled and the outstanding issues arise from the recovery of the costs from the other 
drivers insurer.  Mr T is concerned about any potential liability he might have and about any 
inconvenience of having to attend  court. I further understand that P has confirmed it would 
only make  Mr T liable for any of the costs if he didnt  co-operate with their enquiries. 
Had he been in receipt of all the information, I think Mr T would most likely have claimed off 
his insurance policy  rather than go down the credit hire route. I say this because the excess  
on his policy  is relatively modest, the policy provided  cover  for the cost of a hire car (albeit 
not a like for like replacement), and Mr Ts no claims discount wasnt at risk as it was 
protected. So there was little incentive  for him to choose the credit  hire option.
Its possible Mr T would  have  found  himself in a similar situation  even if hed claimed through  
his insurer. His insurer would have  pursued  the other driver's insurer  for recovery of its costs 
and there  might still been a dispute between  the insurers.  And that may have resulted in 
court proceedings. Alternatively, given  the relatively low repair costs, the insurer might  have 
decided to just cut its losses and negotiate  a settlement with the other insurer  or abandon its 
recovery attempts altogether. Whatever  might have happened, I think  its very unlikely that 
the situation would still be outstanding now, five years after the accident happened.  And 
Mr T wouldnt have  been  at risk of any further  liability to his insurer.
So I think Endsleighs  failure to properly explain the credit hire option has disadvantaged 
Mr T. Rather  than still having  things  outstanding,  a claim  through  his insurer  would most 
likely have been finalised and he could  have put the matter behind  him.
how should Endsleigh put matters right?
Had Mr T claimed under his policy the claim would most  likely  have  been  closed now with 
there being no current risk to Mr T of further  liability or of him having to take any further 
action. Although theres no guarantee, I accept what Endsleigh says about P not holding  
Mr T liable for any costs as long as he co-operates. But that arrangement still requires Mr T 
to co-operate with P going forward. And he wouldnt be in the position of having to co-
operate with anyone now if hed claimed  off his insurer.
Ref: DRN01802214The only fair way I can see for Endsleigh to put matters right is for it to essentially step into 
Mr Ts shoes  in respect of the arrangement with P and for it to take on any liability Mr T 
might have to P. And the only way I can see for Endsleigh to do that so that P wont  have 
any further contact  with Mr T is for Endsleigh to pay P an amount equal  to whatever P is 
trying to claim off the other drivers insurer. How Endsleigh goes about doing that, and 
whatever arrangement it puts in place  to get reimbursed that amount from P once P recovers  
anything from the other  drivers insurer is purely between  Endsleigh  and P.
I realise that as things  currently stand Mr T has gained slightly  in that he hasnt  paid anything  
towards the cost of the repairs, whereas he would have had to pay the £350  policy  excess if 
hed claimed off his insurance (which he might not have received back  if his insurer wasnt  
able to recover costs  off the other  insurer). Ive taken  that into account in considering how 
Endsleigh should put matters right because  if it werent for that I would have made Endsleigh  
pay compensation for the distress  and inconvenience Mr T has endured  by having the 
outstanding credit hire claim still hanging  over him.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Endsleigh  Insurance Services Ltd to pay P an amount equal 
to what P is trying  to recover  from the other drivers  insurer, such  that P wont need  to get in 
contact with, or bother, Mr T further  about this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0180221