K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Legal & General Insurance Limited declined a claim he made under his 
home insurance policy after a water  leak damaged  his home.
background
Mr F unfortunately had a water leak at his home  which  turned  out to be caused by a faulty 
valve on his shower. The leak caused  damage  to the ceiling below the shower.
Mr F made a claim on his home insurance  policy with Legal & General (L&G). He wanted  
them to pay for repairs  to the ceiling and for a replacement valve, shower base, door and 
wet boards.
L&G declined the claim on the basis that they were  only liable for repairing the damage to 
the ceiling, which cost less than the policy excess for an escape  of water claim. 
They said the valve wasnt covered, as it was the cause of the leak.  And the damage  to the 
shower area was caused when the plumber traced  and accessed the leak. They  said trace  
and access wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr F wasnt happy with this outcome and complained to L&G.  They maintained theyd  done  
nothing wrong  and referred  Mr F back to the terms of his policy. So, Mr F complained to us.
Our investigator looked into and thought L&G had done nothing  wrong. Mr F disagreed and 
asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs policy covers  damage caused by an escape of water. The faulty valve was the cause 
of the escape  of water  it wasnt caused by the escape of water.  So, its not unreasonable  
or unfair for L&G to decline the element of the claim relating to replacement  of the valve.  
Theres no indication that Mr F believes the damage  to the valve was caused by another 
insured peril or event.
The policy is also clear that it does not cover:
Tracing the source  of any escape of water  and repair or replacement  of any walls  
damaged during this investigation.
Mr F provided a report from his plumber which set out the work carried  out at his property. 
This made it clear that repairs to the ceiling cost £400, tracing and accessing the leak cost 
almost £2,000 and replacing the shower  cost just under  £1,400.
Although it was fairly clear from that report that £3,400 of those costs  were for trace and 
access of the leak and/or replacing items damaged by that activity,  we contacted the 
company whod carried out the work directly. They confirmed the shower  base, door and 
boards around  the shower were  damaged when they were  removed in order  to trace  the 
leak.
Ref: DRN05306542So, its not unreasonable or unfair for L&G to decline the elements of the claim relating to 
replacement of the shower.
Mr Fs policy documents make  it clear that the excess relating to escape  of water claims is 
£750. Given that L&G were liable for only the £400 relating to the damage to the ceiling, it 
wasnt unreasonable or unfair for them to decline the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.  
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0530654