K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Cs credit card account when she applied to upgrade her existing Barclaycard by post. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint because:
 I think Barclaycard made  Mrs C aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it  although  I can understand why she can no longer remember  this. Theres an 
option on the application form she completed to say yes or no to PPI  and the yes 
box is ticked.
 Barclaycard didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt  have to check  if it was 
suitable for her. That includes assessing her sick pay entitlement.
 Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But Mrs C chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover.  She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  
and the policy  was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mrs C would have made a different decision if better information  had been  provided. 
On balance I think she would  still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  27 October 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0605364