K821x#15Complaint
Mrs B complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  The complaint is brought on her behalf  by a claims management 
company.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 October  2019.  At the time the complaint was set up against 
a different business.  Since issuing my provisional  decision, another  business, AXA, has taken 
responsibility for this complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in this decision.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Mrs B took out in 1997.  
It was sold to her in store and covered her if she couldnt work due to accident, sickness  or 
unemployment.
My provisional decision
I thought the complaint should  be upheld and I explained why. I said:
AXA needed  to give Mrs B clear information  about the PPI before she agreed to 
take it. That included  highlighting  anything that could  make it difficult  for Mrs B to 
make a successful claim.
Mrs B says she was self-employed when she applied for the PPI. And I can see 
this is what she declared at the time on the store card application.
Ive looked at the policy terms  that likely applied to Mrs Bs policy  when it was 
sold, and I think it wouldve been more difficult for Mrs B to make  a claim for 
unemployment than she wouldve  expected.  Before she could make a successful 
claim, her business wouldve had to have stopped trading and have  been  wound 
up (or be in the process  of being  wound up), or her business wouldve had to be 
in the hands of a liquidator.  I think AXA shouldve highlighted this term to Mrs B  
and Ive not seen anything to suggest it did. If it had done, I dont  think  Mrs B 
wouldve taken the policy.
So I think Mrs B has lost out as a result of what AXA did wrong and so it needs  to 
put things right. 
I concluded that AXA should  put Mrs B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out the PPI.
I gave both parties the opportunity to provide further evidence and information,  but neither 
party replied  to my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
As neither party has provided any further information, I find no reason to depart from my 
earlier conclusions and I think  the complaint should  be upheld.
Ref: DRN01427992Putting things  right
AXA should  put Mrs B in the financial position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
And what AXA needs to do will depend  on if Mrs Bs store  account  is still open.
If Mrs Bs store card account is still open:
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and:
A.AXA should find out how much Mrs B would owe on her card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it. 
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges.
AXA should  then refund the difference between what Mrs B owes  and what she 
would have owed.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, AXA can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when AXA works out what Mrs B would have  owed each month without PPI  
Mrs B paid more than enough to clear her balance,  AXA should also pay simple 
interest (at 8% a year) on the extra  Mrs B paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point  when Mrs B wouldve owed AXA something on her card. 
C.AXA should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A and B.
If Mrs Bs store card account is now closed:
A.AXA should find out how much Mrs B would have owed when she closed her store card.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges.
AXA should  then refund the difference between what Mrs B owed when  she closed 
she account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI. 
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, AXA can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.AXA should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between  what Mrs 
B wouldve owed  when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she 
gets the refund. 
C.If  when AXA works out what Mrs B would have  owed each month without PPI  
Mrs B paid more than enough to clear her balance,  AXA should also pay simple 
interest (at 8% a year) on the extra  Mrs B paid. And they should carry on paying 
interest until the point  when Mrs B wouldve owed AXA something on her store card.  
Ref: DRN01427993D.AXA should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C.
In either  case,  if the lender has already repaid  any commission  amount to Mrs B that relates 
to this PPI sale, that sum can be deducted  by AXA from the redress  shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest.  AXA must give 
Mrs B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA France IARD should pay compensation 
as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0142799