K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the high interest rate National Westminster Bank Plc applied to one of 
her loans. She is also unhappy she wasnt  able to make a lump  sum payment to this loan 
and with the sale of a second loan. 
This complaint has been brought by Mrs Hs son on her behalf. But for ease, Ill refer to both 
their actions as Mrs H. 
background
In August  2014  Mrs H took out a loan for £19,500 for a term of five years  with an interest 
rate of 18.2% APR.  In early 2016  Mrs H says her son wanted to pay £10,000 off her loan but 
Natwest told her the full amount of interest  would be applied to the loan.  So the loan wasnt 
repaid. 
In late April 2018 Mrs H took out another loan for £8,350 over a term of eighteen  months 
with an interest rate of 8.5%. Mrs Hs first loan was repaid and £828.87 was paid into her 
account. Shortly after taking this loan Mrs H started to miss the monthly  payments.  
In October  2018 Mrs H made a complaint. She said both loans had been mis-sold and that 
her son had attempted to pay £10,000 off the first loan.  On 26 October 2018 Natwest  sent a 
final response saying  the loans werent mis-sold. It said payments of £482.48 were paid 
every month until the second loan was taken  out in April 2018. It also said it offered a non-
advised sale for the second loan and provided all the information about the terms to Mrs H. 
Mrs H was unable to keep  up the repayment of her loan. So in March 2019 she was 
contacted by Natwest asking for the outstanding amount of £6,057.86 to be re-paid. Around 
the same  time she brought her complaint about the mis-sold loans and the attempted  re-
payment to this service.  Mrs H said she was unhappy with the interest rate she was given 
with the loan in 2014. And that she wasnt able to pay off the loan with the £10,000 from her 
son. Mrs H also said she was extremely distressed to receive the letter  from Natwest asking 
her to pay the outstanding amount for her loan. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint but felt it shouldnt  be upheld.  He was satisfied 
Mrs H was aware of the first loan and the terms it was offered  on. He also said he didnt 
think Natwest had done anything wrong.  And there wasnt any evidence Mrs H was told the 
interest on the first loan would still be payable if the balance  was cleared.
Mrs H remained  unhappy. She said Natwest told her it wasnt possible to repay the loan 
early without paying all of the fixed  interest and it should still have records  of the sale of the 
loan in 2014. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the same reasons. I know Mrs H feels  strongly 
about this complaint and this will come  as a disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Mrs H is unhappy with the rate of interest applied to the first loan. A commercial decision a 
bank makes about the interest rate to charge isnt something that this service would normally  
Ref: DRN02259132interfere with. Although  Mrs H is unhappy  with the APR she managed to pay the monthly 
payment every month  up until she took out the second loan. And if she was unhappy  with 
the level of interest  I would have expected her to raise this issue earlier  or at the time she 
took out the loan. 
I note Mrs H says her intention was to make  a lump sum payment in January 2016 but feels  
Natwest put her off doing so by asking her to pay the fixed interest. Natwest  says its policy  is 
to accept full or partial settlement of a loan.  So Ive considered what Mrs H says she was 
told by Natwest at the time and reviewed the terms and conditions. These say Mrs H could 
either settle the loan early or make a lump  sum payment. The remaining monthly payment 
could either  stay the same or be changed  if Natwest agreed. The interest would then be 
calculated in line with the interest rate of the loan and the remaining balance.  
If the £10,000 was meant to reduce Mrs Hs loan there would still have been a remaining 
balance to pay. This would have been calculated  in line with the terms and conditions. But 
Im not satisfied it was. I can see from her statements that some of the lump  sum was 
returned to her son. The rest was split up into different accounts  and used for everyday  
saving and spending with some of the remaining amount used  to pay the monthly payment 
on her first loan. So Im not satisfied from the evidence  Ive seen the money  from her son 
was all going to be used to reduce the balance on her loan. So, Im not going to ask Natwest  
to take any further  action  in relation to this part of the complaint.  
I note Mrs H is unhappy Natwest no longer has the loan documents from 2014. This isnt 
unusual given the time that has passed.  This service isnt the regulatory  authority on 
information rights and how long a bank  needs  to hold onto customer documents. This is the 
role of the Information  Commissioners office (ICO).  If Mrs H remains unhappy with the fact 
these documents  are no longer available  she is free to contact the ICO to discuss  this 
further. 
Im not persuaded Natwest made an error  when giving Mrs H a second  loan in 2018. This 
was a non-advised sale for a similar  monthly  amount  with a lower rate of interest until 
October 2019. As it was non-advised Natwest didnt recommend the loan to Mrs H 
personally or advise  her to take it out. I dont know what  was said during the sale,  but Ive 
not seen anything such as a record of a discussion about Mrs Hs needs  and circumstances 
or a suitability check to show me clearly that it did make a personal  recommendation to her. 
So I dont  think Natwest has made an error  or acted unreasonably in relation to this loan. I 
believe it has tried to help Mrs H by lowering the interest rate over a short  term so it would  
end around the same  time as the first loan.  So Im not going  to ask it to do anything  more 
here. 
I can see Mrs H found receiving the letters about  her outstanding debt stressful. Any issues  
she has with the way Natwest handled the recovery of her debt and her financial 
circumstances at the time should first of all be raised as a separate complaint to Natwest.  
Therefore, Im unable  to comment on that here. 
Ref: DRN02259133my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0225913