K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Ms O holds with Nationwide Building Society, secured 
on a property which she has purchased in three stages between 2005  and 2018.  Ms O is 
unhappy that Nationwide didnt lend her enough to buy all of the remaining equity at the 
second stage  in 2016. She says that decision meant  she ended up paying a lot more to own 
her property in full.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so. No discourtesys  intended by that. Its a reflection  of the 
informal service  we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont  be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Ive also 
rounded some of the numbers involved, to reduce the risk of identification  when my decision 
is published.
Ms O acquired a 40% share  in her property in 2005, with a mortgage of around  £56,000,  
taken over 25 years. In 2016, she acquired  a further  40% share, with a further advance of 
£82,500 taken  over 16 years. Then, in 2018,  Ms O acquired the final 20% of her property 
with a second further advance of £48,000  taken  over 17 years.
Each new share was priced by reference  to a current valuation of the property. Ms O says 
that if Nationwide had lent her enough  to buy the remaining  60% in 2016,  shed have  paid 
less for the final 20% than she ended up paying in 2018. 
Our investigator didnt  think Nationwide  had done  anything wrong, and so didnt recommend 
the complaint  be upheld.  Ms O asked for her case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its quite apparent to me 
that this complaint is much simpler than its been made to look.
The gist of Ms Os complaint is that Nationwide was able to make a favourable  assessment 
of affordability for the 2018 advance  by extending  the mortgage term. She says that it should 
have done the same in 2016. But thats exactly what Nationwide  did do in 2016. When  Ms O 
made the 2016 application, her original  mortgage had 14 years  left to run. The point-of-sale 
recommendation shows that Nationwides affordability assessment included extending the 
term. At that point, it judged that a new term of 16 years was appropriate, and thats what  
determined the maximum amount it was willing to lend at that point, taking into account 
Ms Os circumstances at that time.
Nationwide took broadly  the same approach for the second further advance,  only this time it 
concluded that a term of 17 years  (from 2018) was appropriate. Yes, that means the end 
date is later than that for the 2016 advance, but that doesnt of itself invalidate  the decision 
Nationwide made  in 2016. 
Ref: DRN06779652Lenders have a duty to lend responsibly,  and to assess  each application by reference to the 
criteria they consider relevant at the time. Simply because Nationwide  was willing  to lend 
over 17 years in 2018 doesnt meant  it should have lent over 19 years  (or any other term that 
would have allowed  Ms O to borrow enough  to have bought  the remaining 60%)  in 2016.
Generally speaking, its not my role to second-guess or otherwise interfere in the decisions 
lenders make on how much and on what terms theyll lend. Theres  no reason for me to 
make an exception here by substituting what would, in effect,  be Ms Os commercial 
judgement over Nationwides.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, my final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means well not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Ms O to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 December 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0677965