K821x#15Complaint
Mr A complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  refused  to let him reject  a faulty car.
Background
In October  2018 Mr A acquired  a car costing £4,690 funded by a deposit of £400  and the 
balance with a conditional sale agreement. It was some seven years old and had done  
around 100,000 miles. It was bought sight unseen and the car was driven to his home  
despite him paying for it to be delivered on a recovery truck.
Within few days he noticed a number of faults.  He told Moneybarn  that a warning light for a 
faulty suspension came on, the paint  work  was damaged,  airbags missing,  brakes were 
worn down, the windscreen was damaged, despite  having been told this would be fixed  and 
the rear seatbelts were  not working. He asked that he be allowed to reject the car. 
Moneybarn arranged for the car to be subjected  to an independent inspection. The inspector 
said the car required a number  of repairs and further  investigation into the suspension fault. 
He also said a number  of the faults  were safety  issues. He concluded these faults would 
have been present at the point of sale. Moneybarn agreed to cover the cost of repairs to the 
brakes and to pay £200 as goodwill gesture to meet the delivery costs. However, it 
considered the other faults to be cosmetic and not sufficient to merit rejection.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld. He concluded that the car wasnt  fit for 
purpose and noted  it had a number of MOT fails. The brakes were seriously worn  and some  
of the other faults were  safety matters. He concluded that Mr A should be allowed to reject it. 
Moneybarn didnt agree.  It said the issues were due to wear and tear and the warning light 
was to do with sensor issues or needing service.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Moneybarn is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Ref: DRN00480532Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Within a few days  of taking delivery  of the car Mr A identified a number of faults.  These are 
not disputed and the key issue  is whether they were sufficient to merit rejection. I consider 
that taken individually the faults were such that they would not merit rejection.  However,  I 
have to consider  them  in their totality.
I am conscious that the car was reasonably old and had done  a high mileage and so it will 
have been subject to wear  and tear. As such it wouldnt be in perfect  condition,  but where  a 
car comes with issues which compromise  the drivers and passengers safety than I consider 
that to be of a more  serious concern. 
Issues with the airbags are of particular concern and I note that the independent inspector 
was of the opinion that further  investigation was necessary. He also listed  a number of 
issues such as an incorrectly routed flexible brake hose, damaged windscreen and wipers. 
Indeed he referred  to the numerous problems which  required repair and he believed  any 
issues with the suspension would require  further investigation. Overall he concluded  all the 
faults would  have been present at the point of sale.
So the car had numerous  faults when it was sold and, of course Mr A didnt have the 
opportunity to carry out an inspection prior to purchase. Taken  together  I consider they 
amount to the car being  of such a quality to be considered suitable  for rejection. While I 
appreciate the positon taken by Moneybarn I have reached a different conclusion and I 
consider Mr A should be allowed  to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay from April 2019.
collect the car at no further cost to the customer
refund  the deposit and pay 8% simple  interest from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement
pay £150 distress and inconvenience  payment
remove any adverse information  from Mr As credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0048053