K821x#15complaint
In summary,  Miss A has complained that Avantcredit of UK, LLC,  provided her with a loan 
when she wasnt able to afford it. 
background
In August  2015  Avantcredit gave Miss A a loan for £6,800 repayable over 60 months. It was 
a high interest loan with an interest  rate of 48.18% APR. The total charge  for the credit  was 
£8,820.26, which meant  the total amount repayable by Miss A for the £6,800  she was 
borrowing, was £15,720.26. The monthly repayments were  £262.26. Miss As monthly  net 
salary was recorded as £1,800 a month on her loan application. She had several pay day 
loans. 
In its response to Miss As complaint, Avantcredit  explained that it carried  out sufficient 
checks to make sure that the loan was affordable for Miss A. 
When calculating the affordability of the loan, it said it verified her income and compared this 
to her declared expenditure. Her credit score  was also taken into account. It was satisfied 
the loan was affordable.
Miss As concerns were investigated by one of our adjudicators. She said that based on the 
cost and term of the loan,  she didnt think the checks carried  out by Avantcredit were  
proportionate. Miss A had provided  evidence  of her financial  circumstances which showed 
her expenditure was far greater  than the £800  recorded on her application. And she had little 
disposable income to be able to afford  the loan.  
Avantcredit didnt  agree with the adjudicators view. It said the review of the complaint didnt 
take into account that the purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation. The loan would 
have consolidated 36% of her creditor balances, reducing her expenses and making the loan 
affordable. The credit report provided at the time of the lending didnt show any outstanding 
loans, arrears or defaults. 
In response the adjudicator said she had looked at the information provided.  This showed 
that Miss A had opened  38 accounts in the previous 12 months. Miss A had been  continually 
indebted with pay day loans and had opened  10 short term loan accounts in the previous 6 
months. 
The adjudicator went on to say this all suggested a pattern of borrowing that indicated 
Miss A had a reliance on short term unsecured  loans to fill a gap in her finances. Whilst the 
loan may have been to help consolidate,  Miss A still had unsecured debt of £12,344. And 
she thought Avantcredit should  have realised from this information that Miss A was unlikely 
to have sustainably  been able to repay  the loan. 
As Avantcredit didnt  agree with the adjudicators view,  the case  has been  passed to me for 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN00259952Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss As complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if Avantcredit  treated 
Miss A fairly and reasonably when it provided her with the loan.
1)Did Avantcredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  itself that 
Miss A would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?  
2)If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown  at the time? 
3)Ultimately,  did Avantcredit make a fair lending decision?  
4)Did Avantcredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
Did Avantcredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  itself that Miss A 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules  that Avantcredit  had to follow, required it to carry out checks  that would enable it to 
reasonably assess,  whether Miss A could afford to repay the loan she was wanting to take 
out. This is often referred to as an affordability assessment.
 
The rules  dont set out what  specific checks it needed to carry out, but it did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think  what  
this meant  in practice, was that the scope and extent of Avantcredits checks  needed to 
reflect the nature of the loan, bearing  in mind things  such as the amount of credit, the 
interest rate, the duration of the loan,  the monthly  and total amounts repayable, and any 
indications of customer vulnerability.  
The checks  to be carried as part of its affordability assessment, needed to be borrower 
focussed. What I mean  by this is that the checks needed to consider whether paying the 
loan back would cause  Miss A any difficulties or have any adverse consequences  for her. It 
would also need  to take into account  factors such as the amount of money being lent, the 
term of the loan and the monthly  repayments,  total charge  for the credit  and the interest rate 
being charged. This isnt an exhaustive  list. 
And as a result of the above, I think a reasonable and proportionate check  needed  to be 
more thorough if Miss A had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult 
for her to make the loan repayments with a low income. 
It would also need to be more thorough the higher  the amounts she had to repay, as it would 
be more difficult to make higher loan repayments  on a given income. 
The length  of the loan term would  also be relevant,  partly because  where  the loan duration is 
longer, the total cost of credit was likely to be higher. It would also be relevant because there 
is greater risk of a negative change in circumstances  affecting Miss As ability  to repay,  
where repayments need to be sustained over a longer period. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about  whether Avantcredit completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss A would be able to repay her loan in a 
sustainable way.
Ref: DRN00259953In summary,  then, the circumstances of this loan application are as follows:
Miss A was applying  for a high-cost credit product which  had an APR of 48.18%.
The monthly repayment was relatively  high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
Miss As monthly income (approximately  14%); and even more so considering  that she 
would need to allocate this proportion of her income towards her loan repayments for 60 
months.
The total cost of the loan was very high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
what Miss A borrowed.
Individually and taken  together,  there  are several  risk indicators here. So, I think it was 
important for Avantcredit to have conducted  checks which  gave it a thorough  understanding 
of Miss As financial position  and to scrutinise  the information it gathered  carefully, asking 
follow-up questions where necessary, before agreeing to lend.
Avantcredit has said it did carry out some checks before  it agreed  to provide Miss A with the 
loan. And this seems  to be on the basis of carrying out a credit search, verifying her income 
and comparing this with her declared expenditure. It says it carried out an affordability  
assessment based  on this information.  
But I think the information contained in the credit report it obtained should have raised  
concerns about  the affordability  of the providing  the loan to Miss A. I say this because  the 
affordability report Avantcredit produced, shows shows that Miss A had taken out 
approximately 5 new accounts in the last 3 months. And this showed as a red marker on its 
report. 
At the very least,  this information should  in my opinion have put it on notice to make further 
enquiries about Miss As finances. The total cost of the loan represented a considerable 
commitment for Miss A over 60 months. And I think this should all have alerted Avantcredit 
to have carried out sufficient borrower focussed  checks, in order  to satisfy  itself that Miss A 
was able to sustainably repay  this loan over the 60 month term.
So, given the information Avantcredit  had about Miss A, I dont think its checks were 
reasonable or proportionate in this case. I say this because I think  the background of Miss A 
having opened a significant  number of accounts in the previous 3 months,  suggests  to me 
that she may well have been  having difficulties in managing her finances when she sought a 
loan from Avantcredit.  I think this information  should  either have prompted Avantcredit  to 
decline the application or  at least  have alerted it to make further enquiries of Miss As 
finances and assess the affordability  of the loan for her. 
What would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown at the time?
As Ive explained, I think Avantcredit should  have ensured that the scope and extent of its 
checks were adapted  to the circumstances of Miss As application. This was a high cost loan 
being taken out by an individual with a record of having taken out a number of new accounts 
in the previous three months.  
Miss A has provided additional information about her finances  to help us better understand 
her circumstances and the potential impact  on her of taking out this loan. She has provided 
Ref: DRN00259954us with a copy  of her credit report.  This showed that Miss A had taken out over 20 short  term 
loans in 2015. She appears to have  been in a constant cycle of having to take out pay day 
loans in the 7 months  prior to applying for this loan; and also,  in 2014. So, if Avantcredit had 
carried out a full credit search on Miss A, I think it would have realised from this information 
that she wasnt in a good position financially.
Did Avantcredit make a fair lending  decision?  
Avantcredit has argued that the purpose  of the loan being for debt consolidation, hasnt been 
taken into account.  I agree that the purpose  of the loan can be an important consideration 
when assessing  whether  credit should be provided.  And I think  that consolidation  of debt can 
be an indicator of underlying financial difficulties for someone in Miss As position. 
Her background of having taken  out a number  of pay day loans in the previous year prior to 
this loan application, suggests  to me that she was already having difficulties in managing her 
finances when  she sought this loan from Avantcredit.
I acknowledge that payments  appear to have  been  maintained on those  accounts.  But I think 
the history of pay day borrowing should either have prompted Avantcredit to decline the 
application. She was clearly in my opinion struggling to manage  her finances on a day to day 
basis and was having to take out pay day loans on an ongoing basis. And this all suggests  to 
me that she was unlikely  to be able to sustainably make the loan payments over the 60 
month term of the loan.  So, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Avantcredit  
should have provided Miss A with the loan. 
Putting things  right 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss A to repay  the principal  amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest  and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt  have been provided to her. So, I think Miss A has lost out and Avantcredit 
should put things right for her. Avantcredit should:  
a) Remove  all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset.  Any payments 
made by Miss A should then be deducted  from the new starting  balance.  If the payments 
Miss A has made total more than the amount she was originally lent, then any surplus 
should be treated  as overpayments  and refunded to her with 8% simple  interest* calculated 
on any overpayments made, from the date they were paid by Miss A to the date the 
complaint is settled.
b) If there is still an outstanding balance, then Avantcredit should agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss A, bearing in mind the need to treat her positively and 
sympathetically in those discussions; and taking into account her current  ability to repay the 
loan from her present  disposable income. 
c) Remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss As credit  file as a result of this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Avantcredit to deduct tax from this interest. Avantcredit 
should give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
Ref: DRN00259955my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is to uphold Miss As complaint about  
AvantCredit of UK, LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2021.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0025995