K821x#15complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the cover DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance  Company Limited (DAS) 
provided under her legal  expenses insurance, which is part of her home insurance policy.  
background
In 1970, Mrs H bought a leasehold property. In 1997, water damaged  her property  this 
problem continued  and resulted in a dispute  with the freeholders over the cause of the water  
damage and the freeholders  alleged  lack of maintenance.  
Mrs H later attempted to refurbish her property with the help of a grant  from the council. But 
in 2010, the freeholders took action against  Mrs H for carrying  out work, saying she didnt 
have permission. This dispute continued over the years  with the freeholder applying  to the 
Property Chamber of the First-Tier Tribunal (as it now is) three  times to forfeit  Mrs Hs lease, 
which she successfully defended. Of particular contention was a gas flue which  Mrs H 
installed  the freeholders believed she didnt have permission to do this and removed it for 
the final time in 2013, leaving Mrs H without central  heating. 
In 2010, Mrs H approached DAS for help defending the allegations raised by the freeholders.  
This was originally declined because the contract  in dispute, the lease, started before she 
took out cover with DAS in 2003. Mrs H complained about this in 2011  and again in 2013  
and DAS maintained  its position. However, when  she contacted it in 2016, it had since  
reviewed its approach to such  matters  and, therefore, this was passed to a solicitor to 
consider. 
Shortly afterwards, Mrs H raised  a complaint about  the solicitors  handling  of the matter.  She 
thought they were taking too long and asked for too much information   she wanted  to use 
her own solicitor instead. DAS gave  its final response in July 2016. It confirmed that 
complaints about  the solicitor are handled  independently to DAS, but submitted that the 
solicitors needed  further  information to progress the matter  and that DAS would only 
consider appointing her own solicitor if there were court proceedings or a conflict of interest. 
This letter explained that Mrs H would need to contact our service within  six months if she 
was unhappy  with its response. 
Around the same time, the appointed  solicitor referred back to DAS about a number of 
additional issues that were outside  the scope of its original  instructions   namely damage to 
the exterior of Mrs Hs property, caused  by work the neighbouring freeholders  had carried  
out to their own property.  The solicitors  said they would need a new instruction to deal with 
this. 
So DAS wrote to Mrs H to ask for details of when the damage to the property first occurred, 
to see whether it could  consider the additional  issues. This led to some confusion   Mrs H 
didnt understand  what  information  DAS wanted  and was reluctant to go through  the entire  
history of the matter.  And, at times, DAS muddled  Mrs Hs claim that was already with the 
solicitor with this new matter. This continued until Mrs H sent in her chronology  of events 
and, in February 2017, DAS wrote to Mrs H with its understanding of the current  position.  It 
explained that the solicitor was dealing with the dispute with the freeholders over installing a 
gas flue (although  this seemingly hadnt progressed since DASs final response in July 2016, 
given the outstanding information). It also confirmed that it wouldnt cover legal expenses  to 
recover any of Mrs Hs losses that were  caused by works carried out to the freeholders 
Ref: DRN00127552property. Thats because  it believed this related to the dispute over damage  which  first 
started in 1997,  before  she took out the policy in 2003. 
In February 2018,  Mrs H raised  a complaint that she wasnt  covered. DAS forwarded  her its 
explanation from 2017, as well as reiterating  that she wasnt covered for her dispute over 
damage as this first occurred in 1997.  Mrs H continued to raise concerns that DAS wouldnt 
cover the fees she paid to defend the allegations  made against  her by the freeholders.  And 
in April 2018, DAS sent a final response on the matter.  This again explained why it wouldnt 
consider the new issues about damage, but it didnt  address Mrs Hs dispute over her lease. 
Mrs H remained  unhappy with DASs  position,  so she approached our service. In summary:  
She was unhappy  DAS didnt help with the freeholders  allegations  that she had 
breached her lease   and that she had to fund the legal fees herself. She added  that 
shes been told that the only way to progress this is through  the High Court  and she 
cant afford that action. 
She doesnt understand why DAS maintain  that shes not insured.   
The matter  was passed to me to make a final decision. Before reaching this, I contacted 
DAS and Mrs H. In summary, I explained: 
The crux of this matter  concerns DASs involvement with Mrs Hs dispute with her 
freeholders over allegations that she had breached  her lease agreement. But, under 
our rules,  Ive no power to consider what happened  with this claim because  Mrs H 
didnt contact us within six months  of receiving a final response  from DAS on the 
matter. 
I considered DASs decision over the more recent aspect of Mrs Hs claim  whether 
she can bring a claim to recover any losses she may have incurred  from the 
freeholders work  to their property. I wasnt satisfied  this arose from their dispute over 
damage in 1997, so I asked DAS to reconsider this claim. 
DAS accepted my findings, but Mrs H remained unhappy. In summary, she explained: 
She doesnt accept  shes  out of time, because the matter has continued  to the 
present day  she is still unable to install  central  heating. 
She doesnt understand why DAS claim shes not covered because she took out the 
lease in 1970.
Mrs H also provided a timeline  from 2009  detailing the key points of her dispute with 
the freeholder.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease, Ive addressed  what  I consider to be the two key aspects of Mrs Hs complaint 
separately. 
1)      Mrs Hs dispute with her freeholders over whether she had breached her lease 
agreement  
Ref: DRN00127553If a business doesnt  consent, Im not allowed to consider a complaint which  is referred to us 
more than six months after the date the final response letter  is sent. Dispute Resolution Rule 
2.8.2(1) can be found online  in the Financial  Conduct Authority Handbook.
The crux of Mrs Hs complaint is that DAS wouldnt help with a dispute with her freeholders 
over allegations  that she had breached her lease agreement (for example,  by installing a gas 
flue without permission).  Mrs H complained  to DAS about this in 2011 and 2013   and DAS 
final response from 2013 explained she had six months to refer the matter  to our service  if 
she remained unhappy. In 2016, she again  complained to DAS about its decision.  By this 
time, they had reviewed  their approach to such matters, and so it was passed  to a solicitor  to 
review. Mrs H complained about how long it was taking  and the information requested. DAS 
issued its final response in July 2016  and this similarly explained that if she remained 
unhappy, she could  approach our service, but shed need to do so within  six months. From 
everything Ive seen, theres been  no substantial progress with the claim since  this point, 
owing to the lack of information. 
That means that, at the latest, Mrs H had until January 2017 to ask us to look into DASs 
involvement with this matter (both its original decision and the subsequent progress with the 
solicitor up to 2016). But Mrs H didnt bring her complaint  about  this matter until 2018  so it 
was significantly outside the six month referral period. The complaint is, therefore, out of 
time under the rules  which apply. 
I am, however, allowed  to consider late complaints if the failure to comply with the time limit 
was a result  of exceptional circumstances. I do appreciate that Mrs H has been through a 
very distressing time  both with this dispute  and the effects it had on her and her family, and 
problems with her own health. But I cant ignore that Mrs H continued to speak with DAS 
about this matter  so I think she couldve  equally referred it to us. It follows  that, while I do 
understand this might  not have always been her priority, Im not persuaded there were 
exceptional circumstances  that meant she couldnt bring her complaint on time. 
Accordingly, I have  no legal power  to consider this aspect of the complaint under the 
statutory rules that we have to follow.
2)     Mrs Hs potential claim against  the freeholder for damage caused to her property
In dealing with the above, DAS was notified of a potentially new issue  whether Mrs H can 
bring a claim  to recover any losses she may have incurred from the freeholders  work to their 
properties. 
DAS declined this, saying it originated from the same dispute Mrs H had with the freeholders 
over damage (namely water damage)  that went back  to 1997  which was before Mrs H had 
legal expenses cover. But Im satisfied this is a separate  incident.  Before,  the damage 
(namely water damage)  arose from the freeholders failure to maintain certain areas. But this 
claim came about because the freeholders actively worked on their properties, which may 
have caused damage to Mrs Hs property. 
So, I dont think DAS was fair to turn down  this aspect of the claim  and having  put this to 
DAS, it has agreed to reconsider the matter. 
going forward 
Ref: DRN00127554Given the history and complexity of this matter, DAS has agreed,  so far as reasonably 
practicable, to appoint Mrs H with a single claims  handler to take this matter forward. I 
remind Mrs H that in order for this matter  to progress, she will need  to cooperate  with DAS. 
Indeed, its a condition of her cover that she sends DAS what  it asks for and gives the 
information it needs.
my final decision
With regard to the merits of this case that Ive the power to consider, my final decision is to 
uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  DAS Legal Expenses  Insurance  Company Limited  should  
reconsider whether  Mrs H can bring a claim to recover any losses  she may have incurred 
from the freeholders  work  to their property. This is subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of her policy.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my final decision before 9 September 2019.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0012755