K820x#14Complaint
Mrs S has complained,  through a claims management company (CMC),  about  a whole of life 
and critical illness protection policy that she took out following advice from a business that 
Phoenix Life Limited is now responsible for. The CMC has said no assessment of 
affordability into retirement was carried out and her attitude to risk also wasnt  assessed.
Background
Mrs S took out the whole  of life and critical illness policy in 1990. The initial sum assured on 
the policy was just over £21,000.  At the time of the sale Mrs S was single with no 
dependants and was employed.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  He 
was of the view that the critical  illness cover Mrs S required was only available  as an add-on 
to life cover at that point  in time.  He acknowledged  that some standalone policies were  
available in 1990 but as they were only introduced in late 1989  any that were available would  
have been very expensive  and from only a limited number of providers.
The CMC didnt agree with the assessment. It felt Mrs Ss attitude to risk wasnt  established  
nor was it explained to her that the policy could potentially increase  as the years went  on. It 
also referred to a different  complaint we had dealt with in the Service  where it felt the 
circumstances were  similar and the complaint was upheld.
As no agreement could  be reached the complaint  has been  passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Firstly, the CMC knows very well that each case is considered  on its own merits so while  it 
has referenced another complaint, in making  my decision, I need to consider the individual 
circumstances of this case alone.
Information from the sale of the policy is limited; however,  a personal financial analysis 
document was completed at the time of the sale, very likely in conjunction with Mrs S. This 
collated the personal and financial details of Mrs S along with her needs  and objectives.
It is written  in this document that all Mrs S wanted  at the time of the sale was long term 
illness benefit/cover. The majority of this document  is very hard to read because  of the 
quality so I cant see whether Mrs S indicated elsewhere in the document  that she had other 
needs. But the CMC has confirmed  that critical illness was Mrs Ss only objective at the time 
of the sale.
Given this I am satisfied that Mrs Ss priority at the time was to take critical illness  cover only.
On first sight a whole of life policy containing  critical illness cover does seem  to be 
unsuitable. Why take out life cover if all that was required was critical illness  protection.  
However, I have researched what types  of policy were available in 1990 and whether 
standalone critical  illness policies were available and from everything I have seen, I am 
Ref: DRN00328632satisfied that in 1990 standalone critical illness protection  (or dread disease  cover as it was 
known then)  was very rare. If they were available, they would have been very expensive at 
that time because they were only introduced in the latter part of 1989. So, given this I think  
its likely  that any standalone policy that Mrs S may have been able to get in 1990  would  
have been out of her price range.
In light of his, as Mrs S wanted critical illness cover, it seems one of the only ways this could 
happen was for the critical illness  cover  to be provided as part of a policy which also 
provided life protection. I accept she could have  taken this with an endowment protection 
plan rather than a whole  of life plan, but the role of this Service  isnt to look for the best 
advice possible;  it is to assess whether the advice and recommendation provided  was 
suitable. 
I know the CMC has said Mrs Ss attitude to risk wasnt established and no assessment was 
made about her ability to afford the policy into retirement. However, the policy  was a 
protection policy and not an investment one, so her risk attitude didnt need to be assessed. 
And with regards to the affordability  issue, while I cant see whether this was discussed 
because of the poor quality of the documentation  provided I think  its unlikely Mrs S would 
have done anything different given she wanted  critical illness protection,  and this was one of 
the only ways  she was going to be able to get it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0032863