K820x#14The complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about the amount of compensation Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), offered 
her following  a complaint  about the level of commission it received on a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  The PPI was attached  to Mrs Bs mortgage  which  was taken  out in 
2003.
What happened
Mrs B made a complaint to Lloyds  about  the sale of the PPI in 2013. Lloyds considered  it 
hadnt mis-sold the PPI and the complaint was referred to our service. Mrs Bs complaint 
was represented  by a third party.  
The mis-sale was looked into by our service under a different reference  number. One of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint and considered that the PPI policy  hadnt been  mis-
sold. Mrs Bs representative didnt respond, and the complaint was closed.  
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So, to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
In 2019, Mrs B complained again  to Lloyds about her PPI policy.
In May 2019, Lloyds  wrote to Mrs B and explained that as it had already responded to 
Mrs Bs complaint about the mis-sale in 2013,  it wouldnt be looking at that point again.  But it 
offered to pay compensation for the level of commission and profit share  it received, and 
didnt disclose which had created an unfair relationship. It offered to pay Mrs B £707.10 in 
compensation. And said this would be paid directly  into her account. 
Mrs B wasnt  happy with the amount  and the fact that Lloyds paid the money directly into her 
account without  allowing  her to decline the offer. So, she brought her complaint to this 
service. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and thought  Lloyds had acted fairly.
As Mrs B disagreed, the complaint has been passed  to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill explain  why I consider Lloyds has acted fairly in its offer of compensation to Mrs B for the 
unfair level of commission  it received.
As explained above, the FCA provided guidance and rules on how businesses  should deal 
with complaints about the sale of PPI. It referred  to a two-step approach.  
Ref: DRN06683402The first step was that a business should look to see whether  a policy  was mis-sold and 
whether the consumer would not otherwise have bought the policy. 
The second  was that if a policy wasnt mis-sold, did the level of undisclosed  commission 
(and profit share) received by the lender create  an unfair relationship between the consumer 
and the lender.
what does this mean for Mrs B?
Mrs B complained about the sale of her PPI in 2013.  Lloyds investigated this and considered  
that the policy wasnt mis-sold  our adjudicator agreed with this. So, in light of the above,  
Lloyds, by looking at the sale of the PPI, has considered  the first step as set out in the FCAs 
approach. 
After the FCA issued the rules and guidance  in 2017, Mrs B complained again to Lloyds. 
Lloyds went on to consider level of undisclosed commission (and profit share)  it received 
and looked to see if an unfair relationship  was created. This is the second step of the FCAs 
approach. 
Lloyds said that the level of commission and profit  share it received  did create an unfair 
relationship. So, to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mrs B paid each month for 
the time the commission  and profit share  it received was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. It 
also included 8% per year simple interest to compensate Mrs B for the time she was out of 
pocket.  
So, in this case Lloyds  has made  Mrs B an offer of compensation in relation  to the level of 
commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA.
And overall,  Lloyds has done what the rules  it must  follow  tell it to do. It looked at whether  it 
considered the PPI was mis-sold, and then looked  at the level of commission it received and 
subsequently offered  compensation to correct the unfair relationship that was created.
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mrs Bs particular  complaint  and 
circumstances that means Lloyds  should  do something different to put right the unfairness  
caused by not telling her about the amount of commission and profit share it got. But I dont 
think there is.  
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs B has said told us  including  what she has said about 
not thinking the amount  is correct  and the fact Lloyds paid the money  directly  into her 
account without  allowing  her the option  to decline it. Mrs B hasnt explained  why she 
believes the amount  Lloyds  has given  her isnt correct, but Ive reviewed the information it 
has provided, and I think  the amount it has calculated is correct. Looking  at Lloyds final 
response, I can see it did provide contact details for Mrs B to contact it if she was unhappy 
with the outcome it had reached. From everything  Ive been given, I cant see that Mrs B did 
this, but Lloyds did give her the option  to disagree. So, these points dont change  my 
decision. 
Overall, I think the offer thats been made  is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So, I wont  
be telling  Lloyds to do anything more.  
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN06683403Lloyds has to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mrs B any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the mortgage account  and pay back  to Mrs B the difference  between 
what Mrs B owes and what she would have owed if the commission  and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs B can claim back the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank  PLC has to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so it doesnt  need 
to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0668340