K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of total mortgage protection (TMPP) plans.
background
In 2006 Mr K took out TMPP cover  to protect  his mortgage repayments. That policy  was 
cancelled within the 30 days  cooling  off period and money Mr K paid for that policy has been  
paid back to Mr K. 
So in my decision Im looking at what happened when Mr K took out PPI alongside further 
advances he arranged  in 2007 and 2008.
When Mr K complained to Halifax it didnt  agree  it had mis-sold him PPI.
Mr K was unhappy with this response and so we investigated. Our adjudicator  didnt 
recommend upholding the complaint.  
Mr K disagrees. His main complaints are that he didnt need PPI and he told us he took it out 
because Halifax said he required it as part of the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint. 
I wouldnt expect Mr K to remember exactly what was discussed when he took out PPI so 
long ago. This means that what he says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  
his complaint. I have  to look at everything and decide what  I think is most likely.
what happened  when Mr K took out a further advance in 2007
I think that Halifax made Mr K aware that the PPI was optional  and he chose to take it out. 
Halifax cant show me anything signed  by Mr K that shows how he took out PPI. But, we 
already know from looking  at other cases what the process was when  Halifax  sold TMPP. 
And weve seen examples  of the paperwork Mr K wouldve had to fill in to get PPI - as well 
as some of the paperwork relating to Mr Ks application for the further advance.  Ive no 
reason to think that Halifax wouldnt  have  followed its normal  sales process. 
Ive also taken into account that Mr K had held his mortgage for some time without PPI after 
cancelling the first policy hed taken out. So I think he wouldve been aware at the time that 
having PPI wasnt  required in order to get the borrowing he wanted.  The further advance 
offer Halifax  sent Mr K also makes this clear.  I havent seen anything  in the paperwork hed 
have seen at the time that wouldve given  Mr K the impression that he had to take out PPI 
with the further  advance. 
Ref: DRN05434482On balance, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented to Mr K as optional  and I think  
hed have known  it was up to him to choose  if he wanted  to add it to his account.  
Halifax says it advised Mr K to take out the policy and I think it was suitable for him looking  
at what hes told us about his circumstances at the time.
Mr K was eligible for the policy.  The policy wouldve covered his mortgage repayments  for up 
to 12 months per claim,  and paid out on top of his work benefits, if Mr K was unable  to work 
as a result  of an accident or disability. So I think this couldve been useful if hed needed to 
claim. 
Also the policy  couldve  paid out for 12 months  if hed unexpectedly lost his job and was 
unemployed.  
And Mr K couldve made repeated claims on the policy giving  him long term cover for his 
mortgage. 
PPI is more dependable than relying on family help. Having  PPI meant Mr K could be sure 
hed always be able to keep up the monthly repayments in order  to protect  his home.  I think  
that wouldve  been an important consideration at the time. So I can see why Mr K mightve 
wanted PPI to cover his mortgage  even  if hes forgotten this now. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mr Ks case. So, I dont think having more information about  things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected his decision  to take it out.
Possibly some information  Halifax gave  Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of cover.  
Taking into account the cost and the monthly benefit that would be paid if a successful  claim 
was made  I think the policy provided a worthwhile benefit to Mr K. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest it was unaffordable for him. 
Its possible there mightve been  some failings in the way PPI was sold to Mr K in 2007. But 
I think he still wouldve decided to buy the PPI even if hed been better informed as the policy 
gave Mr K useful protection in his particular  situation. I dont think  better information 
wouldve stopped  him buying it.  
what happened  when Mr K took out a further advance in 2008
I think that Halifax made Mr K aware that the PPI was optional  and he chose to take it out. It 
looks as if having  PPI was something he discussed with Halifax  when he arranged  this 
further advance. The TMPP hed taken  out the previous year was cancelled and he took out 
a new plan that included PPI when  he applied for this additional  borrowing.
I havent seen  anything in the paperwork hed have seen at the time that wouldve given him 
the impression  that he had to take out PPI with this further advance. The paperwork sent to 
him explaining the terms of the further  advance he was applying for said that he didn't have 
to take out any insurance through Halifax  and the only insurance he had to have was 
buildings insurance   not PPI.
On balance, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as optional  or that Mr K didnt 
choose to take out accident,  sickness and unemployment cover as part of the TMPP.
Ref: DRN05434483Halifax advised Mr K to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for him. 
The policy provided  the same benefits  as the one hed taken  out the year before  paying 
out for up to 12 months for each successful accident, sickness and unemployment  claim.  As 
Mr Ks circumstances appear to have  been  largely unchanged I think PPI continued to be 
useful for him to have.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr K about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But I think he understood that it was his choice whether to take out PPI  so Mr K 
appears to have wanted this type of cover.  Taking  into account the cost and the monthly 
benefit that would be paid if a successful claim was made I think the policy  provided  a 
worthwhile benefit  for him. Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable.  
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way Halifax  sold this policy  to 
Mr K in 2008. But as the PPI continued to offer Mr K useful protection  in his particular 
situation I dont  think clearer information  wouldve stopped him buying  it. 
This means  I dont  find that Mr K has lost out as a result of anything that Halifax  mightve  
done wrong when it sold him PPI. So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0543448