K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Santander  UK Plc (the bank) added excessive charges to his 
account, at a time when he was in financial difficulty. Hed like the bank  to refund some or all 
of the charges. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He concluded:
The bank  had added charges and interest  to the account in accordance with the 
terms and conditions.
Mr H hadnt told the bank he was in financial difficulties.
A large  number of the charges, which were for failed direct debit payments, could 
have been avoided if Mr H had simply cancelled the payments. 
The bank  hadnt added charges on charges,  as Mr H claimed.
If Mr H was unclear about  how his account  worked, he could have  asked for help 
from the bank in order to understand it.
Mr H accepted that the adjudicator had a point about him not telling the bank sooner about  
his financial difficulties, but overall he thought the bank  shouldnt have had the right to add 
so many charges  to his account. This had greatly  worsened his financial situation and had 
made it difficult for him, because of the state of his credit report, to open a new account 
elsewhere. He repeated  his point that he hadnt properly understood how his account 
worked in terms of charges.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H but I too havent  upheld  his complaint. Ive reached broadly the 
same conclusions as the adjudicator and for similar reasons.  
The charges  and interest were added to Mr Hs account lawfully, as the terms and conditions 
allowed. Theres no evidence of Mr H telling the bank at an earlier  stage that he was in 
financial difficulty. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that theres no evidence of charges on charges. The bank wrote 
to Mr H when he was in an unarranged  overdraft  asking  him to make contact if he needed 
help. It doesnt  appear  Mr H did so. 
I also think it was possible for Mr H to ask the bank for help if he didnt understand how his 
account worked. This isnt a reason for the bank to have to repay charges. 
Ref: DRN03193192my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0319319