K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about the valuation CIS General  Insurance Limited gave  to his car 
following a motor insurance claim.
Reference to CIS includes its agents.
background
Mr Cs car was damaged  in an accident. CIS deemed it a total loss and told Mr C it valued 
the car at £4,520. Mr C thought that valuation was too low. He brought his complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator thought CIS had dealt with Mr C fairly. Mr C didnt agree so his complaint's 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Mr C thinks that CIS significantly undervalued his car. I should explain that it's not my role to 
value cars but Ill look to see that an insurers reached its valuation  reasonably.  Our usual 
approach to complaints about  valuation  is to look at the relevant trade  guides  for valuing 
second-hand vehicles. We find these reliable as theyre based  on nationwide research of 
likely selling prices. And I find them more persuasive than figures  cars are advertised for, as 
those are often inflated to allow  for negotiation and don't reflect  the actual sale price.
The trade guides rarely agree on the precise  market value of a car, so we think the fairest  
way to find a cars valuation is to take an average figure from the relevant  guides. At the time 
that CIS valued  Mr Cs car it used three trade  guides  to value it. CIS said that two guides 
valued the car at £4,150  and the third at £4,520. That would produce an average  of around 
£4,273. But CIS didnt  use the average  figure  it used the highest figure of £4,520. 
At Mr Cs suggestion our adjudicator looked at a fourth trade guide that we had recently 
started using when Mr C brought his complaint to us. He recorded that the guide gave a 
valuation for his car of £5,602. 
The guide  price CIS used,  of £4,520, is around  9% higher than the other two guides it looked 
at. But the valuation from the fourth guide,  of £5,602, is around 24% higher than the highest  
trade guides valuation and about  34% higher  than the other two guides. And our usual 
approach, where  one guide is significantly out of line with the rest, is to discount that figure  
when looking at what is a fair market  value.
Mr C thinks that the fourth guides valuation is more  in-line with the actual market value of 
his car, as it better reflects the asking price  for such cars. But as I've said above we don't 
generally find asking  prices useful in arriving  at a fair market value. As they will often be 
inflated as dealers allow room for negotiation and to offer discounts to sweeten  the deal and 
the actual sale price of the car might  be considerably less than its asking price.  So, as the 
fourth guide is out of line with the valuations of the other three guides I dont think  it would be 
fair to use it when arriving at a valuation for Mr Cs car. And as CIS has valued  the car in line 
with our usual guidance  I think its valuation is reasonable.  
Ref: DRN09936252my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020. 
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0993625