K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  policy taken out in 
2000 and then amended  in 2001.  Mr and Mrs G say Coventry  Building  Society  (CBS)     
mis-sold them the MPPI.  
Mr and Mrs G had a joint mortgage and the initial split of the monthly benefit  was 50:50. But 
when the policy was amended in 2001 it was split 65:35 in favour of Mrs G. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
CBS has provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Gs initial mortgage application form. And 
having looked at it, I can see that there  is an option to decline  MPPI. Im also mindful that 
Mr and Mrs G signed  a separate  MPPI  application form to request the change  in the 
benefit split (and also obtain 6 months free cover) in 2001. Mr and Mrs G have said they 
were made to feel that they had to have the policy to get the mortgage. I accept the CBS 
representative might well have said that taking MPPI might  be a good idea given they 
were buying their first home. But I dont have  enough  here to say Mr and Mrs G were 
coerced to the extent they had no choice  especially as the documentation from the 
time suggests they ought to have  realised MPPI was optional.  Overall  and having taken 
everything into account, I think its more likely than not that CBS made  Mr and Mrs G 
aware that the MPPI  was optional  and they chose  to take it out.
Ive not seen enough here to lead me to think that CBS recommended the MPPI to       
Mr and Mrs G so it didnt have to check if it was right for them. But it did have  to make 
sure Mr and Mrs G got the information they needed  to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information CBS gave Mr and Mrs G about  the MPPI  wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But I think that they more likely  than not chose to take it out - so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. Equally  while  they mightve been entitled to 
some sick pay from their employers, the MPPI wouldve paid out in addition to this. So I 
think the MPPI wouldve been  useful if either  of them had to stop working suddenly  
especially as it was protecting the payments to their mortgage.  In these circumstances, I 
dont think better  information  about  the MPPI would have  put them off taking out the 
cover in the first place. 
All of the above means  CBS doesnt have to pay back  all the cost of the PPI to                
Mr and Mrs G.
But CBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G because:  
When the policy was sold,  CBS expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr and Mrs G about 
that. Because CBS didnt tell Mr and Mrs G, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN07921752To put that right, CBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs G have said. But these  points dont change  my 
decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Coventry  Building Society  does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Coventry Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
agreed to do this, so I dont award  any further  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0792175