K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that AXA France  IARD (AXA) mis-sold  him payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a store  card.
The complaint was previously set up against the insurer because  the seller  was acting as the 
insurers agent. But the insurer has subsequently  transferred  its business  to AXA, so it has 
taken responsibility  for this complaint.  To keep things simple, Ill mainly refer to AXA in this 
decision, unless  its clearer  to do otherwise.
background
Briefly:
Mr R took out PPI at the same time as taking out a store card during a high street  store visit. 
Mr R has given us different information  about his employment at different times and Ill come 
back to this later. But he was employed  at the time of the sale and he told us he couldnt 
remember whether he was entitled to sick pay. He said his parents couldve helped  him out 
with his card payments.  And he said he was in good  health  at the time.
 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  15% of Mr Rs store card balance  in the event 
of him being  unable to work  due to accident,  sickness and unemployment.  
The policy also provided purchase and price protection benefits. Mr R hasnt  complained 
about these elements of the insurance  policy so I will not consider them further  in this 
decision. 
At the time the policy cost £1.00 per £100  of the monthly outstanding  balance. And it would 
pay out a monthly  benefit of 15% of the outstanding  balance until Mr R returned  to work or 
the account balance was paid off  whichever happened first.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary they said 
they thought Mr R chose to take out PPI and they didnt  think he wouldve acted differently 
and declined  PPI if AXA had done  anything more.  They also said there  wasnt  any evidence  
to support Mr Rs complaint that AXA failed, on several occasions,  to carry out his 
instruction to cancel  the policy.
Mr R disagrees.
Because the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN06457812key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr R with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether AXA gave  Mr R sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information  to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr R, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr R suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr R and AXA 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr R know  he had a choice about PPI?
AXA had to make  it clear that PPI was optional.
Mr R says he was told he couldnt have the store card if he didnt sign up for the PPI. Ive 
therefore considered  this carefully.
AXA has provided a copy of Mr Rs store card application completed at the time. I can see 
here that theres  a tick in the box for PPI, which said:  Yes, I want  my Account covered by 
Payment and Purchase Protection  InsurancePlease debit  my Account with the relevant  
monthly premium
This section  of the application didnt say or imply PPI wasnt  optional   it said, If you want 
cover please  tick the box below. By having to tick the box in this way, I dont think  Mr R 
wouldve been under  the impression that he didnt  have a choice. If Mr R didnt want  PPI, he 
couldve left this section  of the application  blank.
So, while Ive listened to what Mr R says happened, taking everything into account  
including the fact that the events in question happened over 20 years ago  I think  more 
likely than not Mr R understood PPI was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue 
pressure.
I can see Mr R has also complained that AXA re-enforced his belief that he didnt have a 
choice about PPI  he says he tried to cancel the PPI over the phone on more than one 
occasion but was told he couldnt.  He says he was told hed have to close  his account and 
pay off the balance if he wanted to do that. He says it was only much later that he managed 
to cancel the policy successfully.
Ref: DRN06457813AXAs provided a copy of its records which shows the activity  and communication  history on 
Mr Rs account. Ive looked at this closely.  And having done so, it doesnt  support what Mr R 
says happened. There is no record of Mr R requesting cancellation of his PPI by phone. 
Instead it shows that the PPI was cancelled automatically because Mr Rs account fell into 
arrears. And this was in line with the policy terms and conditions.  
Because of this Im not persuaded  by what Mr R says happened  I dont think AXA failed to 
carry out his instructions to cancel PPI.
did AXA provide advice?
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  And Ive not seen  anything  to persuade 
me that it did. This means AXA didnt have to check if PPI was suitable  for Mr R. Instead  it 
had to give him enough clear and timely information  about it to enable him to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy.
the information
As I referred  to earlier, AXA has provided us with Mr Rs credit  agreement  showing that 
PPI had been selected. It has also referred  us to a copy of the paperwork it says he wouldve 
received, including the policy document,  which  included the terms and conditions  and 
which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied to policies like Mr Rs. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr R at the time, I dont think AXA gave him the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether to 
take out the policy. 
This sale took place  in a high street store. I dont know what  AXA told Mr R about the PPI - I 
think its unlikely there was anything that would reasonably constitute a discussion about it. 
But I think its unlikely he would have agreed  to take it out without at least  having a broad 
understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident,  sickness  and unemployment 
cover. And I think its unlikely Mr R would  have thought it was free.
But it was AXAs responsibility  to draw to Mr Rs attention the important information  i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and limitations,  
which might  be relevant to his decision.  
I dont think its likely  AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mr R - including the need  to maintain premiums during  a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  its unlikely AXA adequately 
drew to his attention the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions.
So, I dont think AXA gave  Mr R enough, appropriate and timely  information to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy. I therefore accept there were 
failings here.
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mr R? To what extent did Mr R suffer 
loss as a result?
Whilst Ive found  AXA didnt do all that it should  fairly and reasonably  have done  when  it sold 
Mr R PPI, this doesnt automatically mean Mr R should be compensated. I need to go on to 
Ref: DRN06457814consider if Mr Rs decision to take out PPI would have been any different had things 
happened as they were  supposed to.
As a starting point  and as Ive found above,  I think  Mr R chose to take this policy  out. So, I 
consider that its reasonable to conclude he had some interest in the benefits offered by this 
type of insurance.  But I also accept his decision to do so was based  on incomplete 
information.
I therefore think Mr Rs circumstances at the time of the sale are important  evidence  in 
helping me to determine the question above  and whether hed have  likely  acted  differently  
with more information.
Id firstly  like to deal with Mr Rs employment circumstances. Mr R told AXA during  the 
course of its investigation into his complaint  that he was an office worker. And in his original  
complaint submission to the Financial Ombudsman Service  he told us he was a shop 
worker. Following the adjudicators rejection of his complaint, Mr R asked to see a copy of 
his store  card application and he then told us he was wrong about his employment  - he was 
working part-time (about  15 hours  a week) in a different occupation. The number of hours is 
important here  to be eligible for the PPI Mr R had to be working  at least 16 hours  a week.
Unfortunately, Mr Rs store card application doesnt record  his employment. And 
understandably Mr R hasnt been  able to provide anything to support his assertion.
On the one hand I accept the passage of time might  make it difficult for Mr R to remember  
his circumstances  at the time. But on the other hand, in his original complaint submission he 
recorded the correct date of sale when he gave us his employment details  there  was a box 
he couldve  ticked to indicate  if he was working  part-time. In weighing  things up Im also 
mindful about the timing of the receipt of this new information - Mr R told us he was working  
less than 16 hours a week after hed been told by the adjudicator  that his complaint wasnt  
upheld.
This isnt an easy matter to decide.  But having  carefully considered things  including taking 
into account the passage of time and the lack of supporting  evidence  - Im not persuaded 
Ive seen enough evidence to support what Mr R now says about his employment at the time 
and that he was working less than 16 hours a week. I think,  on balance, Mr R was working at 
more than 16 hours a week  as he initially  told us. Because of this, I think  Mr R was eligible 
for the cover.
Turning to Mr Rs other  circumstances at the time:
he was employed  and in good  health, so he wasnt  affected  by the exclusions on or 
limits to the policy.
Mr R couldnt remember what his sick pay was. But the policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to any sick pay entitlement and given the percentage benefit, it had the 
potential to pay off the entire  card balance if any of the insured  risks became reality.
So, I think Mr R wouldve  found the policy useful given he didnt  have any other 
guaranteed means he couldve used to make  his payments  Im not persuaded help 
from family can reasonably be described as guaranteed.
Mr R might not have been clearly  told about all the cost information, but it appears it 
was affordable.
Ref: DRN06457815Overall, I still think Mr R had some  good reasons to take the policy  out. The evidence about 
Mr Rs circumstances at the time of the sale shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally 
wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits  and it provided cover  that, despite  its 
limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved useful to him should  the insured  risks have 
become a reality.
conclusion
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr R would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting, and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time. And in those  circumstances, I think Mr R would have  taken the policy out in any 
event.
As a result, I find Mr R has not lost out by taking out PPI with his store  card, so theres 
nothing AXA needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020. 
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0645781