K821x#15complaint
Mr B complained about the transfer of his existing personal pension to a newly opened  self 
invested personal pension (SIPP).He says this was to done to enable a particular
unregulated investment to follow and he says all of these things were unsuitable for him.
Its said Mr B has suffered a loss and St Martin's  Partners LLP (SMP)  are responsible.
background
Mr B told us he was contacted in 2012 by someone  he understood to be an adviser at a 
company known as Alternative Asset Finance (aaf). Mr B believed  this person had been 
previously employed by the business  where his pension funds were held.
Mr B says this adviser persuaded him to transfer  his pension fund into a SIPP with Guardian. 
Mr B understood this was done to enable an investment in the Rimondi Grand to follow,  
using the funds held in the SIPP. The Rimondi  Grand investment was an unregulated 
overseas property investment. 
Mr B came to this service  as SMP rejected  his complaint. Mr B told us he was concerned  
about the loss of value  to his pension funds  and the substantial increase in charges being  
applied by the SIPP provider. He thought the time was up on his investment and so he ought  
to be getting his money back. He went on to explain  to us some  of his doubt and confusion 
about what had happened.
We have been  provided with various  documents relating to the transfer and the starting of 
the SIPP in 2012 and the later investment (2013). Its said none  of these actions were 
suitable for Mr B; and that he wasnt in a position to have done them and wouldnt have done 
them independently or if hed appreciated the risks and potential consequences.
In summary  on behalf of SMP, its said the main substance of what  was done,  took place 
before 28 August 2012. SMP say it wasnt until that date they took on alternative asset 
finance  [aaf] as a trading style.
Prior to 28 August 2012 aaf was used as the trading style of a regulated  financial advice firm 
called Finance in Medicine Ltd (FIM). SMP say Mr B should look to this firm (who are no 
longer trading) or the SIPP provider, to meet  any liability  for Mr Bs loss. SMP dont 
necessarily agree any business  did anything wrong.  Albeit they now say that if there was any 
breach, this breach took place when FIM were dealing with Mr B and again  they are not 
liable. SMP  say they arent responsible primarily because the main actions relating to Mr B 
were done  by the predecessor business.  
SMP accept  they did technically  receive a commission fee following the transfer  of funds  and 
the opening of the SIPP  money. But more recently  they told us, most of this money wasnt 
technically paid to SMP or any of their employees. Its said the people  behind aaf took the 
larger proportion of all commission and went on to pay a proportion  (12.5%)  to SMP. So 
indirectly its said that a distinction needs to be recognised between  aaf and SMP.  Albeit  it is 
accepted that aaf was a trading name of SMP at the time the commission  was paid.
Ref: DRN08558912SMP on at least one occasion  seemed  to say that one of the people  who used to run FIM 
continued to work under  the name  of aaf, after it was taken over/  used by SMP. But SMP 
dont appear to entirely accept this person worked for or was associated with SMP.
In any event SMP have  also said that Mr B was a client  who was dealt  with by all the 
regulated firms on an execution only basis. So they have said in some submissions, Mr B 
knew what he was doing and instructed people to act on his choices. Its said the documents 
signed by Mr B were  clear it was an execution only arrangement and no advice about the 
plan, suitability or any investments was being provided; nor would be.
Mr B says that at the time his funds of £32,704.97 were transferred (10 September 2012),  he 
was aged 46. He was a homeowner (and had been for four years) with an outstanding 
mortgage. He was self-employed and unmarried  at the time (married  two years later),  with 
no dependents. These were his sole private  pension arrangements; although  he was due to 
receive an occupational pension scheme  income from the age of 51 representing nine years  
of service. The limit of his investment experience was an ISA where  he held just over 
£12,000.
An adjudicator at this service  looked  into the complaint and upheld it. She pointed to what  
took place before and after late August 2012 and her view.  She set out what  she thought 
SMP should be required to do.
SMP didnt  agree, they provided some material and made further  submissions. The initial  
adjudicator left this service and a further  adjudicator  reviewed the case. He explained to all 
parties that he was of the same view as the first adjudicator  and why.
In summary  he thought  the case had been set up against the right business.  And he pointed 
to the SIPP  application. He said that although the application was dated 1 August 2012  it 
hadnt been sent to/ received by the SIPP provider until 30 August 2012.  The cover sheet 
attached to the SIPP application was marked from aaf and also set out that aaf was a trading 
style of SMP  (and not FIM). So the adjudicator thought this was sufficient and demonstrated 
SMPs involvement in the activity sufficiently. He also pointed to the invoice issued by SMP  
using the trading style of aaf to the SIPP provider  for payment of advisers commission in
October 2012.
The adjudicator concluded that Mr B only completed the transfer, opened  the SIPP and later 
made the investment under the influence and following advice from another.  It couldnt be 
said that Mr B would have  known  whether  the person he dealt with was regulated  or not. The 
adjudicator wasnt  satisfied by the purported execution only documents  and he didnt think  
enough had been done to ensure these were appropriately applied and used. And he didnt 
think Mr B could  be described as someone  with sufficient knowledge who was directing  a 
business to complete a specific transaction.
SMP didnt  and dont  agree. Initially their compliance officer in 2017 said in summary:
The adviser who spoke with Mr B may well have been working for aaf at the time, but 
not when aaf were  associated with SMP, as they had never  heard of him prior to the 
adjudicators email.
The only person involved with aaf according  to SMP at one stage in their 
submissions, was the person they identified and [at this point] SMP said that 
everything had been  carried out when aaf were  appointed representatives of FIM. 
Ref: DRN08558913They said SMP had never  and would never  recommend  any non-regulated 
investments.
Its right to say that SMPs submissions on this have varied  over time to some  extent. 
There has also been reference to a number  of people working for aaf and that they 
took files with them when they left SMP. Historic information has also been  relied  on 
emanating from another named aaf individual.
SMP  said they found it difficult to understand how the adjudicator  concluded Mr B 
wasnt able to understand the papers he signed,  as they said they were as clear  as 
possible.
On 31 August 2017 SMP contacted us again  and provided further submissions and material. 
In early 2018 SMP instructed  representatives, who went on to contact us in February  2018 
with a number  of further submissions and various attachments.  Thereafter SMP and their 
representatives provided a stream of submissions, some  requests and some  further material  
over an extended period  of time. Overall SMP  doesnt agree they did anything  wrong  or that 
they should be liable for any loss.
Provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 April 2019. In this I indicated I 
intended to uphold Mr Bs complaint, I set out further  detail on information and material 
provided to this service  and my initial thinking. I also said what I thought SMP ought to be 
required to do. In my provisional decision I set out my understanding,  in summary,  of SMPs 
position:
SMP  arent  responsible or liable for any failings  attaching themselves to the setting 
up of the SIPP.
In any event they had no knowledge  about what happened and didnt finally  receive 
the commission paid for the activity. Or what  they did receive was only a small 
proportion and reflected the use of work being  done  in one of their regulated  
advisers names. 
As set out in my provisional  decision, it appeared to be indirectly accepted  that 
SMPs regulated advisers name was used (for example for the submission of 
documents such as SIPP applications) and that a small  proportion  of commission  
was paid to SMP to represent this. But (again indirectly) it appeared to be suggested 
this was done without the regulated  advisers knowledge or direct involvement. 
Nothing further was received on this point  on behalf of SMP  following my provisional  
thinking.
SMP  submit that this service has a usual  approach of affording a new adviser three  
months to review and get to know a new client; so they couldnt  be expected 
reasonably to know about Mr Bs position at the time the SIPP  was opened and 
transfer completed.
 In any event all the substantive work done  to set up the SIPP  was done before they 
came to exist/ be involved or take on the trading style of aaf.
Mr Bs SIPP was set up on an execution only basis.
Ref: DRN08558914And this was the same with all the work they were undertaking at this time that had 
been acquired from/ moved with aaf.
I have previously noted that despite requests from this service,  we have never been 
informed of the arrangements and agreements by which SMP came to take over/use 
aaf as a trading style with their work;  nor any agreement about the division of 
commission relating  to ongoing work. Albeit representations relating to the 
provisional decision say that there was no retainer or agreement with Mr B for SMP 
to revisit previous  decisions  or the acts or omissions of a previous firm of advisers  
(FIM).
Mr B (as a client  using  the execution only service), had approached aaf/ FIM and 
instructed them  on what he wanted  and made his own choices.
SMP  didnt advise Mr B on any investment and had no knowledge of this. And it was 
clear that any investment  was a matter for Mr B.
FIM and/ or the SIPP provider should be liable or pursued in respect of this matter.
It had appeared  to me that at various times  it may have been  suggested  this service wasnt  
able to look at a complaint made  by Mr B against  SMP, as a case  shouldnt  be set up 
against them. In my provisional decision  I explained why I didnt agree. 
In my provisional decision I highlighted the following documents  and information in particular 
that had been provided  to this service:
Typed letter dated 20 July 2012  addressed  to Alternative Asset  Finance  (apparently 
at the address associated with FIM) purportedly from Mr B setting out and confirming 
that he wanted them to set up a SIPP for him and obtain  pension transfer papers and 
this was on an "execution only basis" and that once this was completed  their role "will 
cease". It says it also confirms that investing remained his responsibility  once the 
funds are in the "wrapper".
In my decision I commented that this letter has a marked resemblance to the other 
letters also purportedly provided  by other  clients in similar situations  to aaf around 
the same  time. And in my opinion also resembled correspondence sent from aaf to 
clients. I also commented on the language used. Overall I thought these  were  pro 
forma letters  drafted and used  by the regulated firm for clients.  I didnt think it 
emanated from Mr B personally.  Nor did I accept  he would  have sufficiently 
appreciated what the content was said to confirm and intend.
A purported execution only client agreement issued under the name "Alternative 
Asset Finance  a trading style of Finance In Medicine". This document is said to have  
been signed by Mr B with a date provided  on the document  of 26 July 2012. The 
space to have  been signed  by AAF is blank.
A letter dated 26 July 2012 from aaf to Mr B said to enclose the papers required to 
set up the SIPP.  The letter  refers to having completed paperwork  for Mr B and also 
refers to aaf being a trading style of FIM.
Ref: DRN08558915I previously concluded  this letter looked like the letters sent to others along the same 
lines around the same time.
SMP  also sent us a page where it's indicated how Mr B intends to pay the related 
charges and this has a tick box selection and has been signed by Mr B and dated as 
being issued 26 July 2012.
The page  suggested Mr B had selected  to pay a fee over a commission payment. 
According to the explanatory note only a commission payment would be paid directly 
from the transferred  funds  by the SIPP provider.
I noted this was inconsistent with the spreadsheet and statement from the SIPP 
provider where monies were paid directly to aaf/SMP. But nothing more has been 
provided on this.
A one page  execution  only statement issued  under the name "Alternative Asset  
Finance - new wealth  strategies".  This purports to be an agreement from an elective 
execution only client and contains  typed declarations of the rights  it's said the signee 
understands. There is a date of January 2012  relating to the purported draft of this 
version date. The document  is signed by Mr B and dated 1 August 2012.
It was said for SMP this document was accompanied  by a document  entitled "Points 
to Remember" and we were provided with copies of this. This set out the 
documentation it's said Mr B was provided  with. These gave  explanations  on SIPPs 
and the points said to demonstrate Mr B understood what  he was doing.
I noted this document also had details suggesting it is a generic version  from January 
2012 and designed to accompany a particular agreement.  This refers to aaf being a 
trading style of FIM (as the regulated business).
SIPP application form completed partly in type and partly by hand. Mr B's details are 
entered as being  a sole trader earning  around £30,000 a year. 
The "authorised adviser" is named as the person who was SMPs regulated adviser  
and provides the regulated firm details as provided  as "Alternative Asset Finance a 
trading style of St Martins  Partners LLP'.
An address  associated with aaf follows with a phone number and email address and 
the FCA number  as 537904 (SMPs number).
All the details appear to have been  electronically completed save for the regulated 
firm name  and address.
The document is signed 1 August 2012. There is reference to it being "non-advised'.  
There is further reference to the document having  been received on 30 August 2012. 
And the independent financial adviser's details are recorded as Alternative Asset 
Finance.
An invoice from aaf to the SIPP provider  dated 18 October 2012 apparently referring 
Mr Bs name and a case number of 355 in respect of their fees of £981.
Ref: DRN08558916The title of the firm is printed  as "Alternative  Asset Finance Is a trading style of St 
Martins Partners LLP' with the ref number  provided  as 4002376. This number is the 
Companies House  registration number for FIM.
Confirmation of identity documentation  sent to the SIPP provider including the 
confirmation of the introduction by a regulated  firm is signed and dated 1 November 
2012. The details  of the regulated introducing firm are given as St Martins  Partners  
with the number 537904. The FCA number  for SMP.
Also provided was a purported customer verification document  dated 1 June 2012.  
This gives the regulated firm details as Finance in Medicine Ltd. 
A 35 page purchase pack  for the Rimondi  Grand investment. The developer's  agent  
is documented as being "Alternative Asset Alliance".
Mr B appears to have  signed this agreement on 18 April 2013.
The transaction history of Mr B's SIPP. It was opened with a zero balance  on 4 
September 2012. A transfer  of £32,704.97 was received on 19 October 2012. And on 
25 October 2012 an adviser's fee was paid to "Alternative Asset Finance" of £981.  
On 24 April 2013 the Rimondi investment was made of £29,178.
Mr B
In general terms Mr B accepted my provisional decision. Ive seen he has felt frustrated at 
times about the progress of his complaint.  I also understand  that he thinks my award to 
represent the distress  and inconvenience  he has suffered is too low.
The SIPP provider sent us a copy of Mr Bs purported  undated  request letter to remove aaf 
as the facilitator  for his SIPP; [Albeit they were referred to on other documents as SMP  
trading as aaf as the advisers]. This letter goes on to set out that correspondence  ought to 
be sent hereon to Mr B. This document is dated  stamped as having been received  by the 
SIPP provider on 27 February 2013.
SMP
SMPs representatives didnt accept the provisional  decision. We were told it there was little 
to be gained in dealing with every point  but they didnt accept the relevance  of all the 
contents of my provisional decision. It was felt this service had been  determined from the 
start to regard SMP  as non-compliant as opposed to focussing  on another  business for 
liability. Two points were stressed:
FIM were responsible for the relevant advice (or failure to give advice).
The relevant  execution only business was compliant and applied  the regulatory  
expectations at the time.
Whilst documentation had been  submitted under the auspices  of SMP; this didnt  give rise to 
liability and they didnt think the chronology supported what Id said.  It was said Mr B had 
made decisions in relation  to the transfer and opening of a SIPP with aaf under the auspices 
of FIM. The breach  or negligence had already happened when the decisions were taken 
Ref: DRN08558917(with or without advice). And responsibility for this remained  with FIM as they were 
responsible for aaf at the relevant time.
Its said that I ought not to uphold this complaint because to do so would be in contravention 
of the law. Its suggested the consequence  of my decision is to decide that aaf (under  the 
auspices of SMP)  were in breach/ negligent by failing to rectify an original  breach and 
reversing a decision to transfer and enter into a SIPP.
So its said that at most,  a failure  here wasnt a new breach. And any failure of a professional 
to advise on its own breach, doesnt  amount to a further breach. SMP conclude  that this 
leaves only a single breach, (that of the original aaf/FIM breach) that its said formed  the 
basis for the decision being made to transfer.  They say its the decision to agree  with Mr B 
to set up the SIPP to accommodate  the transfer that is the negligent act or omission.  There 
is not a further  breach by aaf/SMP and ..no basis on which  to attach liability to SMP.
Further or alternatively, its also said, that at no point did SMP enter into any form of retainer 
or agreement with Mr B including the revisiting  of previous decisions and / or the acts, errors 
or omissions  of a previous  advisers  (FIM). And there  was no duty on SMP  to review a 
decision previously taken.  In addition its said that the approach  to execution only has been 
informed by using  hindsight. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  changed  from 
the thinking I set out in my provisional  decision.
Overall SMP didnt do everything they ought reasonably to have been expected to have 
done. And in my view, were it not for their acts and omissions, I dont think Mr B would have 
been in the position  of having  a SIPP or transferring his personal pension plans from their 
original providers into this SIPP;  nor would he have gone on to make the highly risky, 
unregulated overseas investment.
I have read and considered everything  that has been provided with real care.  But I hope it 
will be understood that its not practical  to set everything out in my decision.  
This service is an alternative  to the court process.  Its intended  to be informal and is intended  
to be accessible to all, including those who are not legally or financially qualified for example. 
A number  of submissions have been  made to this service by SMP and their representatives, 
which I think can be characterized as bulk submissions;  appearing to relate  to complaints 
made by different individuals.  There are some  shared characteristics between some of these 
complaints but as Ive previously highlighted, I consider each case  on its own merits. So I 
have highlighted  the need for care to be taken to ensure it was clear enough when 
submissions were intended to be applied to a particular complaint. I dont think this has 
always been the case here. However  I have considered everything that has been  provided 
and applied  it where it has reasonably appeared to be so intended. 
In taking into account everything that has been said and provided to this service I have seen 
that a number of my queries and requests for further information went  unanswered. I have 
only drawn inferences from this where  it has appeared reasonable for me to so do. 
Ref: DRN08558918I have seen a letter from the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS)  in respect of 
a claim made to that service about  FIM, which has some similarity to Mr Bs complaint made 
about SMP.  This letter  sets out an FSCS finding that they couldnt consider the claim, as it 
should properly  be made to SMP. This is a letter I understand has previously been  seen by 
SMP. I accept this letter was not provided  in respect  of Mr Bs case;  nor was it a finding  
made in respect  of Mr Bs case,  and so it has had limited impact on my thinking  here.
In any event, I would like to remind parties,  I am not drawing any conclusions about any 
liability that may or may not properly attach to FIM or the people  involved in FIM or any other 
firm or individual or provider. And there is nothing to follow as a consequence of my decision 
about Mr Bs complaint  about SMP that should  prevent SMP pursuing anyone they may wish 
to.
I think Mr Bs complaint has properly been set up against SMP. I accept Mr B was a 
consumer and client of SMPs, during the relevant  time, and certainly from 28 August 2012. 
It doesnt appear to me, having  looked  at what was said following my provisional decision 
that SMP  disagree  with this.
I think Mr B is properly  categorized as having  been  a client receiving  the services  of SMP on 
matters pertaining to the setting up of his SIPP and the transfer of pension  funds. I think 
these activities were  done for the purpose of enabling the investment that followed. I accept 
there was a form of a model or process being adopted and this was applied  to Mr B. Based 
on what I think I tend to think  SMP were aware  of this. Mr B was reasonably entitled to 
expect and receive a level of service and care that I think, based on what Ive seen fell short.
Ive looked at what was done by SMP and under the auspices  of SMP. I have concluded that 
there was a model of work being used here, of which  SMP  played an integral  role. Mr B was 
a client of SMPs and the work  done  for him was done in furtherance of this model of work.  I 
understand SMP havent addressed some of the points previously made about the 
regulatory duties  owed to Mr B (or others). But I think they were required to act in his best 
interests and they failed  to do this. I think it was or would have been  sufficiently  clear  that 
there were areas that ought  to have attracted real concern.  Due to the nature of the model 
and what I think was known here,  I dont  accept that its reasonable or fair to conclude SMP  
ought not to be responsible for things done for their client within  such  a short space of time 
after Mr B became their client  and what followed thereafter. 
Ive also seen it suggested the SIPP form was signed prior to aaf becoming a trading style of 
SMP; yet the regulated  firm details captured on the form were those of SMP. This form was 
received by the provider at the end of August, funds were transferred after this. SMP appear 
to have remained as Mr Bs adviser for some  months thereafter.
I dont accept its accurate  to characterize  SMPs role as being  an unwilling or unknowing 
party to an earlier breach; or that their only role was to fail to review earlier  activity  in relation 
to Mr B.
Ive seen that SMPs submissions against  the liability of a subsequent adviser for any failings 
of a previous adviser; have included their view that a subsequent  adviser  isnt required to 
review (or not immediately) previous advice. SMP expanded on this on more than one 
occasion. They told us that this service  often concludes three months is a reasonable time 
for a new adviser  to review a new client. And have also gone on to add this wasnt the case  
unless anything had been agreed  under  a retainer. It was said on behalf  of SMP, this hadnt 
been the case here.
Ref: DRN08558919I have gone on to look at whats said further  below. But in respect of any retainer, or 
anything agreed,  I think it could be a reasonable understanding  of the thrust  of some of
SMPs submissions to now be to suggest SMP had considered the issue  of liability  for 
ongoing clients or previous advice when taking over/ taking on aaf and their work and 
clients. I think this would  have been  the usual and expected (and prudent)  approach.  But 
despite repeated  requests from this service,  we have never been informed of the 
arrangements and agreements by which SMP came to take over/use aaf as a trading style 
and their work.
I would consider it to be unlikely  that a regulated firm could consider they were properly 
fulfilling their duties  when taking over or taking on a business, business  model  and client 
book if they didnt review  the nature of the work, clients  and reach an agreement on any 
ongoing liability.
I think SMP  played a sufficient role in the activities that led to a SIPP being started in Mr Bs 
name and his funds  being  transferred into it, and without their assistance this wouldnt have 
happened. I accept the reason  the SIPP was opened was with a view to enabling Mr Bs 
funds to be transferred  in to go on to make the investment that later followed. I dont accept 
Mr B was in a position to conduct or direct these  steps on an execution only basis,  and I 
dont think thats  what happened here. I dont accept the hallmarks of what Id expect to see, 
for true execution  only work, are present here.
There is nothing provided to support the assertion Mr B approached the predecessor 
business. And this doesnt seem to have  been  substantively pursued.  It is inconsistent  with 
the alternative assertion that Mr B may have  been approached by an ex-adviser of his 
original pension scheme, who might have  worked  for aaf previously.
I prefer whats said by Mr B on this. I also dont accept Mr B is someone I think  would be in a 
position to have sought out an adviser  with the independent intention of completing  these  
transactions.
I dont think this was a suitable change  of position for Mr Bs pension arrangements, based 
on what Ive seen. And I dont believe that if SMP  had done all I think  they were  required to 
do, Mr B would be in the position  he finds himself  in. Indeed if SMP had acted as I think they 
should have done, I dont  think Mr B would have gone ahead with the application or transfer, 
let alone the investment.
In reaching my current thinking I have taken into account everything that has been said and 
provided to this service.  I have also seen that a number  of my queries and requests for 
further information have gone unanswered. I also think there have been a number of 
inconsistencies in things said and provided.  I have only drawn inferences from this where it 
has appeared reasonable for me to so do.
For example Ive already noted my enquiries made and agreements  reached on clients, 
business and liability, prior to SMP  taking on the trading style of aaf have gone unanswered. 
I consider information  on this might be of relevance  to Mr Bs situation given the timing of 
when things were  done  and should  reasonably be provided given the nature of the 
submissions made by SMP and on their behalf.
Ref: DRN085589110I have seen that in March  2019 we were  told on behalf  of SMP that it appears that aaf 
jumped the gun in terms of sending existing documentation (produced under the FIM 
banner] a few days before aaf came  under SMPs  name.
We were also told at the same time one of the directors of SMP sought information from 
AAF as to the business it was undertaking,  but it was only on 17 September  2012  (3 weeks  
after joining)  that a list of business for which AAF had used SMP authorisations was 
provided [and] So SMP  was not even being provided with information about this case until 
the matter was completed and paid.  And an email was sent to us (in fact apparently dated 
19 September 2012 said to show this).
I dont consider this an adequate or satisfactory explanation of SMPs  approach  or 
understanding. I cant accept that a director of a regulated firm thought it satisfactory to seek 
information about what they were  taking regulatory  responsibility for in such  an apparently 
casual manner.
I dont accept what was also said about this at the same time on SMPs  behalf:
At this point, all such business had been  submitted to the SIPP operator, so SMP could not 
have done anything about the business even  if it had the opportunity to review  every case.
Nor do I accept that:
Often the only connection with SMP  has been  AAF issuing an invoice well after the event 
to the SIPP  operator, after the AAF team had joined SMP.
I dont think this reflects the true position.
There is nothing I have  seen that suggests  to me SMP contacted Mr B (or any other aaf 
client) to introduce themselves or let them know they were  the regulated firm dealing with the 
clients affairs. I am left overall  with the impression that SMPs relationship with Mr B was 
kept very much at a distance. I cant see anything that suggests  to me Mr B would have 
necessarily known or understood who was acting.  This, in my view, also tends to weaken 
submissions that Mr B was acting  in his own capacity and directing choices as an execution 
only client.  
I understand SMP suggest this service  has recommended advisers should be entitled to 
have three  months  to acquaint themselves with a new client and his or her own 
circumstances. And I have also seen an email  purported to be from the Financial Services  
Authority (FSA), the regulator  as was at the time, to one of the aaf directors.  This email,  
hereafter referred to as the FSA email, appears to me to be the sole direct evidence  
provided by and on behalf of SMP  in relation  to the nature  of the business taken over when 
taking on the trading  name/ style of aaf. I think its important to stress this email was 
provided in support of SMPs position.
There may be circumstances where three months may be a reasonable period of time for a 
new adviser to acquaint themselves with a new client and their needs and circumstances. 
Each case turns on its own facts.
But I dont think it is a reasonable  here to suggest  SMP required three months  (from 28 
August 2012) to be in a position to review  Mr Bs position as their client. Here was a client in 
the process of making significant changes  to his arrangements,  for which  they held 
Ref: DRN085589111responsibility (which I think should  have led them to act and delay and review the SIPP  
application and transfer).
SMP havent, in any event, suggested they intended  to advise Mr B at any time.  I appreciate  
they say Mr B was dealt  with as an execution only client, so this might be considered to be 
inconsistent with the suggestion  of time being needed for a full review. Equally of course  
theres an absence  of an introduction as the new firm to a new client. So theres  no 
suggestion they let their new client  know what would  follow,  in what  time period and what  
services they offered,  for example. I havent  seen it said here that SMP  did go on to deliver  a 
review. Ive seen the copy of Mr Bs purported undated request letter to the SIPP  provider to 
remove aaf for his SIPP. This document is date stamped as having  been received by the 
SIPP provider on 27 February 2013.  Based on what Ive seen I tend to think this wasnt  sent 
to the provider by Mr B. This letter appears to follow the generic format drafted for and used 
on behalf of other clients in the same way.
In relation to the FSA email, it isnt clear to me when  this email was first provided to SMP or 
their representatives; but I find it very difficult to reasonably conclude this would have been 
the only information requested by, or provided to, any business taking on a financial advice 
business or portfolio of ongoing  work  and clients. And if this were  an accurate summation of 
what happened, I cant conclude this was reasonable  as a business  practice;  or that it would 
meet requirements or any duty of care.
In any event, I have read a number of repeated submissions from SMP  and their 
representatives about what I ought to infer from the FSA email.  But I dont agree the 
inference(s) I am asked  to draw are reasonable or fair.
The FSA email is provided  by SMP  in respect of Mr Bs case [as well as in relation to a 
number of other complaints]. It is a photocopy of an email header  from a man with an 
apparent Financial Services Authority (FSA)  email address addressed to and copying in 
names seemingly related  to aaf. The email  is dated 1 March  2012.
We were told that when the aaf people left SMP  in 2013 they took records  and/ or 
documentation with them. However we havent  received anything further of substance on 
this issue since we asked  about this and why this had been allowed. I cant conclude that 
SMP acted  properly in allowing this or knowing this had happened. There is an inconsistency  
in this with an email from 2016 provided  by SMP to this service which suggests that a person 
linked to aaf told SMP all files were on SMPs  systems electronically  from 2012. Ive also 
seen what weve been supplied with.
The FSA email provided is an apparent continuation of an ongoing correspondence.  The 
main body of the email  text said to be from the FSA and relied on in submissions for
SMP in summary, thanks the named person for the response and says they now intend to 
close the matter. It goes on to say they intend  to:
allow the firm to put in place the new procedures etc. we have discussed  and agreed. As I 
have previously mentioned given the business  model and the concerns we had, we may 
choose to review the firms  progress  in this matter in the future and you should ensure that all 
documentation to support  the changes made is retained for this purpose.
I would again  take this opportunity to remind  you that given the execution only business 
model and the relationship with AAA you need  to be comfortable that there  is no regulatory 
risk to your firm. We have discussed  how you can do this and the ongoing due diligence, and
Ref: DRN085589112I am pleased  to note your comments  that you will involve  [an independent compliance firm] 
in reviews to provide  further external challenge. My one final comment  on the process  is to 
consider the risk that the client may contravene current pensions regulations or HMRC rules 
as a result  of the transaction  and how you ensure the client is aware of this risk.
Its said this email shows the FSA were aware  of the work being undertaken and business 
model of aaf and had approved it. And so, by inference, SMP should have had no concern 
and/ or indeed the regulator approved the work and approach. I dont agree for a number of 
reasons.
Primarily I dont  think its a reasonable inference to say the regulator approved of the 
business model and what  was being done.  I do not have any information on what the 
regulator had been provided  with, or what the FIM/aaf model was. Nor do I think  the body of 
the email is approving of whatever has been discussed, I think  at most, new (unidentified) 
procedures to approach a proposed  business  model  had been agreed  and were to be put in 
place.
I accept there is reference to there  being an execution only model,  but the writer of the email 
specifically highlights the potential for a regulatory  risk, in addition  to other risks. Nothing has 
been supplied  in relation  to any external or compliance based reviews. Given theres  also a 
reminder to retain documents this highlights the importance (and my concern)  about  SMPs 
record keeping on their work here. Its not known if it is being  suggested  this email sums up 
what SMP knew at the time they did the work and/ or if they saw this email  in 2012. Weve  
asked but not been  told, although one reading  may suggest this is whats being said. This 
would suggest  to me SMP dont appear to have  followed or been  able to evidence what  was 
required. In any event I cant see that SMP have reasonably  acted or kept the necessary 
records based on what has been  said and provided to us. 
In addition I find it unreasonable to be asked to conclude (which  I think  is what I am being 
asked to do) that the regulator  would  have considered that it would be competent, 
reasonable or appropriate for a firm to avoid responsibility and/ or fail to comply  with 
requirements, simply because errors  took place before a client  moved to another regulated 
firm. In addition I have  seen nothing to suggest to me there  was any ongoing due diligence  
even if I were able to conclude other aspects had been complied  with, which  I cant
Also, and as Ive previously considered and wondered if it had been overlooked when 
submissions were made to this service, Ive seen  the FSA email refers  to AAA  and not aaf.
Based on what Ive seen.  I think its reasonable to infer AAA were, Alternative  Asset  Alliance, 
the Developers agents for the unregulated  overseas investment that Mr B went  on to invest 
in. Here the Rimondi Grand.
My conclusions on this are supported by the email provided to us dated  8 December 2016. 
This email is headed as having been sent by one of the names associated with aaf and is 
addressed to the Directors of SMP  (one of whom was also their compliance officer).  The 
other main name associated with aaf is also copied in. The email subject is said to be aaf. 
The writer  of the email set out:  
AAF were originally approached by Alternative Asset Alliance,  who had been known to us 
for a number of years, to provide an administrative service to their agents,  who wished to 
provide their clients with access to various alternative unregulated investments for their 
pension funds.
Ref: DRN085589113This could  only be achieved if an (unregulated) SIPP was set up on their behalf and this was 
the only service that they required.  This is because prior to January  2013, SIPP  plans were  
then unregulated, and therefore  it was possible  for an individual to make  their decisions for 
their own SIPP funds,  following their own research or discussions with agent(s) representing  
available investments.
Because in order  to achieve the investment  of their choice they had to have their pension 
funds within  a SIPP, at this time AAF agreed  to provide an administrative facility such  that 
anyone wished to transfer their pension funds into a SIPP  for the purpose  of such 
investment, they could  achieve this. We were  however, always totally  transparent  that we 
would only provide this if we were explicitly requested to do this on an execution only basis,  
such that no advice  was requested and no advice was provided  by AAF at any point.
The email  sets out what the writer  says was the regulators  meaning of execution  only.  And 
says that as would be expected by the regulator they never  met any of the clients  and were 
only contacted  via their agent. The email also says that "due to our cautiousness" in respect 
of those who might seek redress apparently in relation to performance disappointment, they 
"ensured that anyone  wishing to use this service provided us with written documentation 
confirming that they understood  the term execution only, they agreed with Its terms, and they 
wished to proceed on this basis".
I dont accept that Mr B did provide sufficient written  documentation to meet  what was 
required to demonstrate true execution work. I think Mr B was one of a number of clients 
who signed pro forma, pre-drafted documents and statements. These contained technical 
details and terminology that I dont think Mr B could be expected to appreciate and 
comprehend (and I dont think he did here). 
At one stage  SMP  told us that clients were never  seen directly,  so I find it impossible to 
accept they can properly conclude Mr B was an execution  only client. I accept  theres 
nothing to suggest that SMPs regulated adviser  (whose name was used on documentation)  
or indeed  anyone from SMP met with Mr B directly. So this makes it even less likely  that it is 
sustainable for it to be suggested they could  properly be satisfied Mr B understood and 
appreciated what he received and what he signed.
The 2016  email suggests theyd also taken  the precaution of obtaining the written opinion 
of the regulator approving their systems and paperwork. It might be inferred this is a 
reference to the FSA email, as both provided  to us by SMP  at the same time in August 2017 
email (the FSA email has been re-sent and referred  to on numerous occasions  since).
SMPs compliance officer repeated the submission  the FSA supported SMPs position. He 
told us in 2018 the FSA e-mail followed the FSAs review of aaf in 2012  prior to joining SMP 
and again stated it is clear that the then Regulator believed we were in compliance  with 
COBS Rule 10.4.1  R 01.11.2007,  otherwise AAF would have had their process re-
engineered or discontinued.
Its right to say there has been some inconsistency within the submissions  made to this 
service about how SMP and their representatives  think the regulators Conduct of Business 
Rules (COBs)  apply,  if at all. The same is true for a number of other regulations  and 
directives. In addition I am aware  that SMP  have  more  generally been directed to the 
regulators Principles for Business  together with information and the guidance in relation to 
execution only business available  in 2012.  
Ref: DRN085589114When SMP contacted  us with a copy of the email in August 2017 they sent in a number of 
submissions and also attached a copy of a 12 page  document entitled "aaf Execution  only 
SIPP facility.  I understood  the correspondence to infer this document had been  provided to 
the regulator or approved  by them.
It's my understanding this document,  taken  in conjunction with the FSA email, has been  
provided to support the submission of what aaf and also SMP knew and agreed from the 
start. This includes that the service  provided  was in respect of assisting someone to make 
an investment by setting  up the transfer and SIPP needed. I agree aaf knew  this (I don't 
agree on the inferences that are said to follow); and I think  there is enough to also conclude 
SMP knew this.
I think this 12 page document is inconsistent with other submissions. It sets out that aaf is a 
trading style of SMP. So if this was the document submitted to and purportedly approved by 
the regulator (prior to their email of March 2012),  aaf was using the name  SMP before  late
August 2012.  There is a further inconsistency as the notes at the bottom of the 12 page 
document set out this is a generic document entitled "Pensions Technical 6 April 2012". So 
this also tends to suggest SMP might have already linked with aaf in April 2012.  I appreciate  
there are a number of potential explanations, but equally these havent been made to me.
I understand there has been some suggestion  SMP didn't have any real understanding  of 
what aaf, also known  as SMP, were doing until sometime later;  2016  was one date 
suggested.
I don't think that's a satisfactory or sufficient explanation. I think it's reasonable for SMP to 
have had an understanding of aaf's work,  any business models and their client book and 
ongoing work, as a matter of basic due diligence when taking over regulatory  responsibility 
and benefitting  from aaf. I can't  accept  SMP  would have reasonably started  using aaf as a 
trading style without  any knowledge or without  there  being a potential benefit  for SMP.
I've seen no representations have been  provided  on the assertion in this email that client 
files and information were uploaded to SMP's systems at the time. This assertion is 
inconsistent with the assertion relating to aaf personnel  removing case  files when they left 
SMP.
I've seen the payment  of commission has been highlighted to SMP as an example of their 
involvement. Reference has also been made  to the name of SMPs regulated  adviser being 
used on paperwork for Mr B [and others] as part of the transfer and SIPP  application 
process. This service  was quite recently (March  2019)  provided  with a spreadsheet and an 
email said to have come  from one of the names associated  with aaf.
This email appears to have been  sent by this person  using an aaf email address to one of 
the directors at SMP (also  the regulated adviser] on 19 September 2012. It reads:
"I attach  a spreadsheet  of all cases that have been submitted under your FSA number-  
these will not be paid though for a couple  of months  as it takes  time to filter through - Is this 
what you are looking  for? Once  the cases have been paid and completed - we will forward to 
you electronic file for your records".
At the same time were  provided with a spreadsheet, said to have  been  attached  to this 
email. The spreadsheet  contains details under the headers; case  numbers, client names, 
Ref: DRN085589115SIPP provider, full commission,  SMP commission @ 12.5% and date documents sent to 
SIPP provider.
In relation to Mr B, the spreadsheet  gives a case reference of "355" and the sum entered in 
the list of full commission was £926  and in the SMP  commission list is set out as £115. The 
date of 24 August  2012 is entered for the date documents sent to the SIPP  provider.
Having looked  at the transaction  history from the SIPP  provider this spreadsheet is 
inconsistent with the "IFA" fee they show on the SIPP statement paid to aaf of £981.
We have not been  told by or on behalf  of SMP  why this information wasn't provided to this 
service at an earlier date. Nor have  we been  told anything further about the context of this; 
for example why SMP  had been looking for this information at the time.
As Ive set out above, I dont accept  that SMP knew nothing about  the work  they had 
responsibility for and that the use of their details enabled to take place. I find it unreasonable 
for the suggestion  that a distinction can properly be made here between  aaf and SMP  at the 
time when  SMP was using the aaf name; I also find the suggestion pro-offered  that aaf had 
jumped the gun and started  using  SMPs  regulated details early as unsatisfactory at best.
Having reflected on this information I accept that individuals who became involved with SMP 
via aaf may have  financially  benefitted from Mr B's transfer and the opening of the SIPP; but 
this is in addition  to SMP. And it is clear  enough  to me that it was the use of SMP as a 
regulated advisory  firm that enabled  this business and Mr B's transfer and investment to 
proceed.
I don't accept SMP would have taken on aaf as a trading style, for it to run as a stand-alone 
business, but for SMP  to provide all regulatory responsibility, without there being a benefit 
for SMP.
I also think there is sufficient to enable me to reasonably conclude that SMP not only should 
have known the nature of the business and what was happening with Mr B as a client  and 
amongst a number  of client; but they should have taken steps  to review the suitability and 
regulatory compliance of such  activities. And here I think there  is sufficient to conclude they 
had at the very least sufficient knowledge  and understanding  of what  was going on under the 
auspices of their business.
I think SMP  were aware of the nature of the business being  conducted  and played a 
sufficiently significant  role in enabling  Mr B's transfer  to go ahead  and SIPP  to be opened.
And of course this paved the way for the investment that followed.
In reaching my current thinking I have seen that although not in line with all other  
submissions received, SMP did inform this service  that:
"At the point when  [aaf associated name] and her team came  to work under the SMP 
umbrella (continuing to use their existing style, AAF), their business  model  was well 
developed. SMP sought and received assurances from [the named party]  that no business  
was procured  from third party Introducers (however  remunerated). [She] presented herself  
as a specialist  in lower  cost execution-only business and stated that Investors would find her 
(It Is assumed  through some general marketing and word of mouth).
Ref: DRN085589116A significant number  of the complainants were already  known to AAF when the AAF team  
joined SMP, so no new "Introductions" were made. To the best of SMP's  knowledge  and 
understanding, subsequent complainants  were referred to AAF (and therefore SMP) by 
existing clients and general word of mouth. SMP had (and has) no knowledge  of any
Introducer arrangements being In place to generate  any leads or new business..  As a 
general point when the AAF team left SMP In 2013,  they took much client documentation 
with them,  so SMP has limited details  about  the initial contact between each individual  client  
and AAF. SMP has sought further  Input..  but this has not been forthcoming  and therefore the 
best particulars  SMP  can give are as above".
I don't consider these steps sufficient  or persuasive. And these submissions are, again, 
inconsistent with other submissions made. Taking everything I have seen thus far into 
account, as I've set out, I think SMP did assist and play a role, sufficient to lead me to 
conclude Mr B's complaint against them should  be upheld.
In reaching my current thinking, I'd like to also highlight some  specific information provided  
to this service of which I have considered of some  particular relevance:
I haven't seen  anything  that makes me think that in 2012 Mr B was someone with an 
informed experience of pensions  and investments; and particularly in the field of self 
investing (or here investing  in unregulated  schemes).
He was close to 50 with limited pension arrangements and according to the SIPP application  
earning around £30,000 a year. It's not entirely clear  if he was employed or self-employed,  
and descriptions  of his work vary (but dont  appear to have involved a level of financial  
experience or knowledge to suggest he was anything  other  than a retail  client). There's 
nothing to suggest knowledge, experience or that he was well placed  to make decisions and 
open his sole pension funds up to greater  risk and potential self-management.
So I accept  it's more likely than not that Mr B was approached and influenced  and advised  to 
transfer his pension funds at the time. I think this was done on the basis  that they would be 
moved into a SIPP  and invested  thereafter.  I don't accept Mr B would have been in a 
position to instruct  his fund to be transferred, or to research or select SIPP  providers, or 
select the unregulated investment that followed;  nor do I think  he would have been in a 
position to sufficiently comprehend  the risks involved with what followed.
I have seen that it appears  only limited SIPP providers might have been willing to accept the 
investment at the time.  This may make it even less likely  Mr B would have been acting 
independently, under his own will and thinking.  And I don't think  what  took place was 
suitable for Mr B.
I dont accept any of the paperwork  provided  was sufficient to meet a reasonable threshold 
for ensuring  the client knew and understood what he was doing.  I don't accept Mr B could 
have or should  have  been expected to understand the potential  consequences of being  an 
execution only client.
I accept that on the face of it, it appears most,  if not all contact and work was done from a 
distance and using the post. It seems to me this highlights and increases the duty placed 
upon a business to ensure a client fully understands the nature of his relationship with a 
business, and what is being done, in such circumstances. And that this is particularly true if a 
client's rights are to be limited in any way.
Ref: DRN085589117I have thought with care about SMP's role in this activity, and whether I think they did all they 
should have done. I have  also considered with care the documents  provided;  and whether  
what's said about them is a reasonable construction or inference.
I understand SMP say any role they played  wasn't substantive enough  such as to attract  any 
liability. They  have raised questions about  their own knowledge and what  was done was 
being done on an execution only basis. In other words SMP  suggest they are removed from 
the transfer and activity  by several steps;  and they have suggested this in different ways.
We were also told:
"As will be evident from the files, the process of setting up the SIPP  was a multistage one. It 
did not take place at a single meeting and. Indeed, as many  clients  were  located in different 
areas, often they would not require meetings. The documentation - Including the clear 
execution-only notices - was therefore  sent to the clients, which  meant that they have 
considerable time to review and consider the same and to understand the basis upon  which  
SMP was acting (If there's  was an SMP case - many were FIM files upon which AAF simply 
filed the transfer documentation  shortly  after joining  SMP). The execution-only wording was
In no way ambiguous  and was therefore  fully compliant under the regulatory requirements In 
place In 2012/2013".
But I dont think this is a true reflection  of what took place; nor particularly in Mr Bs 
circumstances. I consider these steps  to be either artificial  and at the very least  
unsatisfactory. 
And I have  seen the difficulties we have faced  in obtaining information  requested.  I've also 
seen requests for information that tend to lead me to conclude that in the absence of intent 
to delay our investigations and decision-making, there is an inadequacy in SMP's record 
keeping.
These are matters that I consider can reasonably  assist me, when it comes to assessing  the 
reliability and credibility of submissions and information and whether things were done as 
they ought to have  been.
I don't accept Mr B's situation reflects  or contains the usual hallmarks of services being 
offered and completed on a non-advised basis. In practice I'd expect to see Mr B would have 
given a specific instruction to a business.
Here purported instructions and correspondence made available  to this service follows a 
generic format. It bears a striking similarity  to other similar instructions  made  around the 
same time to aaf and contains the same technical language that I don't accept would have 
been part of Mr B's working knowledge.  I also think there is an inadequacy to the paper trail 
and the manner in which information  is provided.
I haven't seen  anything  that enables me to fairly conclude SMP took steps to satisfy 
themselves about  Mr B's background  and experience and understanding. I think  the generic  
and pro forma instruction  basis was adopted  as a model and applied to Mr B. I don't 
consider this to have  been sufficient. If the issue of whether Mr B was a true non-advised, 
execution only client had been properly explored,  I think it would have easily been 
appreciated that Mr B was not what was intended  by an execution  only client  and may well 
have been undertaking  unsuitable activity.
Ref: DRN085589118As I've explained I tend to accept  that Mr B was advised to undertake the steps  that followed 
as I haven't seen  anything to suggest  he had any other information  by which to make a 
decision or choice.
I accept there have been changes in the direct guidance issued and regulatory framework  of 
execution only work in complex and unregulated investments. But I don't accept the changes 
are so substantial as to have changed  the landscape and understanding  since  2012. Nor do 
I think I have used  hindsight to reach my conclusions. And some of the submissions Ive 
seen from SMP appear to agree with this and accept what  the guidance we provided at the 
time.
I consider SMP had a duty to provide clear and credible evidence in relation to the work 
being execution  only. And if this was part of a portfolio of work  or business they took over 
responsibility for, I can't  readily be persuaded that ignorance could be any defence  to 
assuming liability.
This requirement was clarified by the pension review guidance provided in PIA Regulatory
Update 33 of 1997 (which  I believe  has been  referenced on the part of SMP) highlighted the 
care needed  around purported  execution only business. The update set out that:
"It should be noted that any significant  body of these cases  will require substantial 
justification as "true" execution only cases...
You should be particularly alert to doubts  about  the reliability of claims of "execution only"  If 
there are danger signals  such  as a high level of apparent execution-only cases  (more than 5 
per cent of all transfer policies sold by the individual In question and/or by the Member  as a 
whole), the use of technical terms by Investors  unfamiliar  with them,  or numbers of Investors 
apparently couching their comments In the same phraseology.
Whilst I decide every case upon  its individual facts,  it is of concern  and relevance  here that 
SMP conducted or assisted in a substantial  number of purported  execution only cases within 
a very short  space of time. We have asked what proportion of work these cases made up of 
SMP's work  at the time,  but haven't received an answer. I find it hard to accept it was less 
than 5 percent.  We were  told:
"There were 13 cases where all substantive  documentation and the process was completed  
by AAF under the FIM banner, but a final completion  letter was sent whilst AAF was 
operating under the SMP  banner There were  28 cases where  the process was undertaken 
and the substantive decision  taken  whilst  AAF operated under the FIM banner,  but the 
procedural requirements  were completed under  the SMP banner There were 35 cases  
where the whole  process was undertaken by AAF operating under the SMP  banner There 
are some cases  where the whole process was completed by AAF under the FIM banner but 
the fee was received by AAF after It began operating under the SMP banner".
Although this is of course inconsistent with other representations made.
This amount of work highlights my earlier conclusion that any satisfactory review should  
have attracted attention and consideration. The acquisition of a trading style with ongoing 
business, using  the model  being used, tends  to also highlight that SMP should reasonably 
have been particularly concerned to review aware such a significant amount of purported 
execution only clients.
Ref: DRN085589119Even if they could persuade or satisfy me that SMP shouldn't have been aware of this, prior 
to acquiring the trading style and client book; which they can't. As the update set out at the 
time the "PIA's view Is that genuine "Execution  Only"  cases  should be the exception  rather 
than the rule with each  member only having  a small percentage  of such  business in this 
form".
For completeness I also think the use of generic  communications between adviser and client  
and the use of technical terms and common phraseology in letters  is apparent here and also 
was something an adviser and any basic  review should have been  alive to. I also don't 
accept it can be reasonably said the documentation was clear  enough to ensure Mr B 
understood the nature of his relationship with aaf, let alone SMP; nor how services were  
being provided to him. I don't think it can be said SMP were  in a position  to reasonably or 
properly conclude Mr B was an execution only client of theirs.
As I don't accept  Mr B was truly an execution only client and I don't accept the regulatory 
field changed its approach to such work; I am not going on to consider a number of matters 
raised about MiFID and the Conduct  of Business (COBs especially COBS 10) rules in great 
detail. I've read all that has been said with care,  but I think this highlights the ongoing care 
required towards all such purported business and the need to assess  whether such  business  
is accurately described and appropriately applied and conducted.
I appreciate SMP say the rules at the time permitted people  to open execution-only SIPPs in 
the way Mr B did, and aaf followed the COBS  rules applicable in 2012 and early 2013.
From my understanding I think SMP  have  also suggested they complied with the 
appropriateness rules  under  MiFID  for non-advised sale. This would mean, as I understand 
it, they are saying that in some cases, even true execution only sales, a business  can be 
required to ask the consumer for more information to allow  them to decide if the consumer 
has the necessary  knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the 
transaction. I am not sure how SMP  suggest  they complied with this; I haven't  seen evidence  
that enables me to reach that conclusion.
I've also seen submissions as to whether it can be properly  said COBs apply.
I hope I have already  made it clear,  I don't  accept  the submission that it can properly be 
inferred that the regulator  at the time approved the "procedure  and documentation for the 
carrying out of the.. execution  only transfers" from the FSA email.
Wider submissions have been made  to this service on the understanding of the regulatory 
position and what  would  have been  understood at the time in 2012.  They  said the primary 
concern of the regulator related to firms using claims of execution only to hide behind or not 
sufficiently explaining how services (execution only/ non-advised) were being  provided. It 
wasnt a concern about execution only services per se. And a copy of an article from City 
Wire 2012  was attached.
I've also seen it said by SMP that "clients  clearly requested that AAF ceased dealing  with 
them on completion  of the requested transfer(s) and that the Investment of the funds 
available was their sole responsibility... Because we had no dealings  with the Investment of 
the SIPP funds  we are unaware of where they are/were invested and have no authority over 
any of the SIPPS  or the Investments which complies  with the clients written  Instructions".
Ref: DRN085589120I accept in relation  to Mr B, the unregulated  investment  was made  some  time after the SIPP 
was opened and his initial funds transferred in. A copy of this services update from early 
2006 was also attached  which included  commentary  on execution only work and the PIA 
Update 33 from 1997. SMP went on to highlight the further steps taken by the regulator and 
within the industry and referred to a 2013  Moneymarketing report of a round table discussion 
held with the industry. SMP said it was right to adopt  the commentary and approach set out 
by the industry  commentator in the article. I think the thrust  of this material  tends to support 
my thinking  and my perception of Mr B as not being a non-advised client and how SMPs 
work ensured unsuitable actions including an unsuitable investment, were completed in 
respect of Mr B.
I dont think Mr B would  have realised it was intended to be said reasonably that he wasnt 
advised; nor what the consequences of this might  involve. But I also accept that the intent 
behind the transfer and SIPP being  opened  was always to make an investment.  Based on 
what I've seen, I think this investment was always likely to involve AAA; as it did here.  
I don't think SMP did all they ought  to have  done, not only to satisfy themselves about Mr B 
and how he was being serviced  as a client; but that this ought  to have involved enquiry 
about the intent behind  the transfer and new SIPP. And as I don't think  the investment would 
have been made without  the services rendered  by SMP, I don't think it's unreasonable here, 
that SMP  bear the liability  for what followed.
For completeness I think the most basic of enquiries would have revealed the intent for an 
unregulated investment to follow; and I think here this ought to have made any competent 
firm concerned. Mr B doesn't reflect the most usual characteristics or circumstances of 
appropriate investors in such  schemes. I have seen references to the industry climate and 
thinking at the time. And I think  this ought  to have made SMP particularly diligent in their 
approach. I've seen material provided more  generally.
I have referred to delays  experienced in the investigation of this complaint  and my concerns 
about record keeping.  I'm aware that one of the directors of SMP  was the original 
compliance officer, but that in the spring of 2018  a new part-time compliance officer was 
appointed. From what I've seen, this service  went on to provide some assistance  to their 
new compliance officer. It appeared  SMP didn't have the records  of all complaints made to 
this service, documents relating  to cases or views issued.
We have also assisted  on the powers  and procedures  and processes  of this service  and I 
can see there has been a history of requests for time and questions being  posed to us. As I 
have explained  previously I particularly listened  with care to the call SMP's compliance 
officer conducted with an adjudicator at this service and I offered the opportunity  to provide 
oral representations as we were told at one stage  that SMP's compliance  officer  was more  
comfortable with this. But having reviewed  the history of when we sent out queries and 
requested documentations I think it's fair to conclude we didn't receive prompt  or complete  
responses. We have  sent reminders and I can see there is body of requests that remain  
unanswered.
I accept weve been told variously that (May 2018) SMP have "gone back to the people  
behind Alternative  Asset Finance (AAF)  and requested their assistance In helping us to 
answer your questions.  As yet we have not received  answers to our questions". And that
we will be submitting further  evidence  once [the named  aaf individual] has answered 
questions posed  to her ".
Ref: DRN085589121It seems  to me that SMP and their representatives have had reasonable time and been 
afforded a fair opportunity to provide information.
For completeness we were told at one stage there was a concern that SMP may have  been  
the victims  of a clone  scam of a third party presenting themselves as advisers. And that in 
"such an event  any alleged advisor  who Is not a CF 30 of St Martin's Partners  LLP Is a fraud 
and we are not liable for the actions of fraudulent third parties".
We asked for further information on this. Including why this was a concern and whether any 
law enforcement agencies  had been  contacted. We received no reply to these related 
queries and this concern has not been repeated again. Nothing was provided  on this 
following my provisional decision.  My thinking  has been directed to what  SMP are 
responsible for, and this includes work  attributed  to their regulated adviser. Mr B's complaint 
is made about what happened to his pension funds and I've had to look at whether I think 
SMP did something wrong  and if so should they be responsible for any loss sustained by Mr 
B.
For completeness I previously asked SMP to comment on their knowledge of a reference to 
AAF Network  SIPPs". SMP have told us they have no knowledge of this.
Ive seen Mr B thinks I ought to increase  the payment to be made to him for his distress and 
inconvenience. I hope he understands it isnt the role of this service  to punish a business 
and the awards  we make in circumstances such as these tend to be modest. That doesnt 
mean I dont understand how worrying this will have  been.
what SMP  need to do
So for the reasons given I uphold Mr B's complaint. SMP need to complete the following loss 
calculation exercise  to assess if Mr B has suffered a loss. If he has, SMP  will need  to 
address this.
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as close as possible to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been dealt with adequately and provided 
with suitable advice. I don't think Mr B would have  proceeded  with the transfer and his funds 
would have remained in his original personal  pension had he been adequately dealt with and 
advised.
In the circumstances the following loss calculation needs to be completed by SMP and 
redress should follow:
Establish what the value of Mr B's plan would now be, had it remained in his original 
arrangement and remained invested in the same  way as at the date of my final 
decision. (Sum A).
Establish the value  of Mr B's SIPP as at the date of my final decision. (Sum B).
My understanding is there have been no further  payments  into Mr B's SIPP after the initial  
transfer in or transfers out. So this should take account of the investment and all charges 
and fees applied.
Ref: DRN085589122If Sum A is higher than Sum B, then Mr B has suffered a loss and this figure (Sum C) 
needs to be paid to Mr B as redress. If Sum B is higher than Mr B has suffered no 
loss.
If Mr B has suffered  a loss the payment should be made into his SIPP to increase it by this 
amount. If this is not possible payment  may be made direct to Mr B but adjustment  should  be 
made for the tax that would otherwise be paid on income derived from the SIPP. The 
notional tax should be calculated by applying Mr B's assumed marginal rate of tax in 
retirement (here assumed  to be basic rate).
SMP are required to pay interest at 8% simple  on any loss sum outstanding 28 days from 
the date of confirmation of acceptance  of my final decision.
In addition SMP need to pay Mr B £450 for the distress and trouble he has been  caused.
If, at the calculation date,  the investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual 
value should be assumed  to be nil for calculation purposes. 
SMP will need to take ownership of the illiquid  investment  by paying a commercial  value 
acceptable to the pension  provider.  This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
and the balance paid as above. If SMP are unable to purchase the investment the actual  
value should be assumed  to be nil for the purpose of calculation.  SMP may wish to require  
that Mr B provides an undertaking to pay them any amount he may receive from the 
investment in the future.  That undertaking must  allow  for any tax and charges that would be 
incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. SMP will need to meet any costs  in 
drawing up the undertaking.
It would not be fair if Mr B has to continue to pay the annual SIPP fees if there  are illiquid  
holdings preventing the SIPP from being  closed. Ideally, SMP  would  take over any illiquid 
holdings, thus allowing  the SIPP to be closed as appropriate now. So to give certainty to all 
parties, if there are illiquid holdings and SMP  is unable to buy them from the SIPP, then it is 
fair that SMP  pay Mr B an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years of SIPP  fees (calculated 
using the previous year's fees). This gives a reasonable period to arrange for the SIPP  to be 
closed.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  I uphold Mr Bs complaint about St Martins  Partners  LLP. SMP are 
required to complete the loss calculation exercise  set out above. They must pay all sums  
due to Mr B. In addition  they must pay him £450  to represent the inconvenience he has been  
caused.
Under our rules,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision before 
22 July 2019.
Louise Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0855891