K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Family Money Savers Limited  is charging  him a fee for their services  
when he did most of the work.
background
In November 2018, Mr P complained to Family Money Savers  Limited  (FMSL) that it was 
charging him a fee for a PPI refund hed received. He said his bank had confirmed  that his 
PPI claim was solely between him and the bank. He said that the bank had told him that the 
letter of authority hed signed in March 2017 had expired as it was only valid for six months.
FMSL said that Mr P had signed  a letter of authority with it in March  2017, following an 
unsuccessful claim made  by another Claims Management Company (CMC).  It said it then 
submitted a claim to Mr Ps bank.
It said it was later contacted by the bank for a new letter  of authority. This was again  signed 
by Mr P and sent to the bank in September 2018.
It says that it was then told by the bank that it had paid a PPI refund to Mr P in January 
2018. And this prompted the letter to Mr P explaining the fee now due. When  Mr P 
complained, it said it obtained a copy of the original letter of authority from the bank, and 
sent it to Mr P to show that it had submitted the claim to his bank.
FMSL told Mr P that the fee was payable because the letter  of authority was signed before 
the PPI refund was made, and because the bank  had confirmed it had received the claim 
from FMSL, this showed that the refund was not made entirely independently  of our offer.
Mr P complained to the Legal Ombudsman in February 2019. The case  was passed to the 
Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) in April 2019 as part of 
the change in the regulation of CMCs.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He was satisfied that FMSL had initiated 
the PPI refund when it submitted the claim in March 2017. But he felt that it should pay Mr P 
£300 for the delay and lack of updates  it provided.  FMSL was prepared  to accept the finding  
if it was able to reduce  the fee by £300, rather than pay £300 direct to Mr P.
Mr P disagreed and asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im partially  upholding this complaint, in 
line with the approach taken by our investigator, and for the same reasons. As this complaint 
was accepted for investigation at the Legal  Ombudsman  my decision follows the Legal 
Ombudsmans scheme rules.
Its not in dispute  that Mr P signed an agreement with FMSL,  and that it submitted a claim to 
the bank in March 2017. And FMSLs  own records show that it did nothing  with the claim 
until September 2018.
Ref: DRN00209262In the meantime, it appears that the bank issued a standard letter to Mr P informing him that 
he could make a new type of complaint   commonly known  as a Plevin complaint. This letter 
was issued following  a change in the rules introduced by the FCA in August 2017. The FCA 
said that businesses  should write to consumers whose claim was previously  rejected (and 
where the consumer  had not previously complained about commission) but where the rules  
might apply.
FMSL told us that Mr Ps claim had been  rejected  in 2012, so his claim is likely to have fallen  
into this category.
Mr P says that he completed  an online form. And Ive seen a letter from the bank that refers  
to an email received  from Mr P dated  19 January 2018. This is followed one week  later by a 
letter from the bank  informing Mr P that he was due a refund of more  than £4,000.
Mr P heard nothing more  from FMSL  until nine months later. I dont know  what  triggered  this 
contact, and its not clear  from its records why it contacted Mr P for an updated letter  of 
authority.
But this doesnt  change the fact that FMSL was acting as Mr Ps representative in his claim. 
Because of this he shouldnt have been  contacted by the bank directly  where  its clear  that 
a representative  is acting, they shouldve  dealt with the representative, FMSL.
FMSL charged a percentage  success  fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work it 
actually undertook. This means that any work  done on any unsuccessful  claims would be 
done for free. Where  a claim  was successful, FMSLs fee may be more or less than the 
value of the work it actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties  in this type of agreement. 
Just because its fee maybe higher  than the value of the work it did for Mr P doesnt make the 
fee unjustified.  And I note that FMSL has reduced  its fee in line with the percentage set out 
in the agreement Mr P entered into with the original CMC.
It appears from the sequence  of events, from the FCA issuing its new rules in August 2017 
and the subsequent standard Plevin letter from the bank, that it was more likely than not 
that Mr P submitted the claim  that generated the PPI refund. But the letter from the bank 
followed on from the original claim submitted by FMSL. If it had not submitted the claim, I 
cant say that Mr P wouldve received the Plevin  letter. So, Im satisfied  that it was the 
actions of FMSL in instigating the claim in March  2017 that ultimately  led to the successful 
PPI award.
So Im satisfied that FMSL is entitled  to charge Mr P the fee set out in the original 
agreement.
Im also satisfied that FMSL didnt deal with Mr Ps claim as I wouldve expected. It submitted 
his claim to the bank  in March 2017  but took no further steps to chase the bank, or update  
Mr P, until September 2018. I agree with our investigator that £300 is a reasonable award to 
compensate for the delays and lack of any updates given by FMSL.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Family Money Savers 
Limited to deduct  £300 from the fee it has charged Mr P. This is in addition  to the £100 it 
deducted from the reduced  fee.
Ref: DRN00209263Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0020926