K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC allowed an online payment to debit her 
account, which she says she didnt authorise. She is also unhappy about the way in which it 
dealt with her complaint.
background
Prior to October 2018 Mrs J had made payments  to her mortgage  company using bank 
transfers from her Barclays current account.  But in October 2018, she decided to make  her 
mortgage payments  by direct debit instead. So, she set up a direct  debit, which  was due to 
debit on the second of every month.
Mrs Js payment successfully debited her account  by direct debit in October  and November 
2018. But on 30 November 2018 a payment to Mrs Js mortgage  provider debited her bank 
account by bank transfer, which she said she hadnt  authorised. This amount fell short  of the 
monthly mortgage payment she needed  to make.  And, due to this payment debiting Mrs Js 
account, her December direct debit  was returned  unpaid due to her having  insufficient funds 
in her account to cover  Decembers payment.  
As a result of what happened,  Mrs J had to make arrangements to pay the difference 
between her usual  mortgage payment and the amount that debited  her account at the end of 
November 2018.  She also said this led to her direct debit being cancelled and reinstated on 
7 December 2018. And she told Barclays  that as a result  of what  had happened  she suffered 
distress and inconvenience, financial embarrassment and had to take two days  off work to 
resolve this problem.
Mrs J complained to Barclays about  what had happened. She said she hadnt authorised the 
payment that debited  her account on 30 November  2018. She also said she hadnt logged  
into online  banking for 30 days prior to the payment debiting. But, Barclays didnt uphold her 
complaint. It said in November 2017 Mrs J had set up an online request for an amount to 
debit her account on 30 November 2018.  So, it said it had followed that instruction. And it 
also said that once  this payment had left Mrs Js account it had caused her account balance 
to fall short of what was required in order to make  her December direct  debit payment to her 
mortgage provider.  So it didnt think it had done  anything wrong.
Mrs J wasnt happy with Barclays  response  and brought her complaint to us. Our 
adjudicator looked into this and, while they empathised with Mrs J, didnt think  Barclays had 
done anything  wrong. But Mrs J disagreed, so her complaint has been  referred  to me for a 
final decision.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first part of Mrs Js complaint is whether Barclays acted  fairly  and reasonably  in allowing 
a payment to debit  Mrs Js account  on 30 November 2018.  So, Ill focus on that issue first.
The starting point  here is that Barclays should  follow its customers  requests, unless theres 
good reason not to. Mrs J said she didnt authorise this payment and also said she hadnt 
logged into online banking for 30 days prior to the payment debiting her account. But, 
Ref: DRN09880762Barclays has provided evidence to show that this was a diarised payment. And its shown 
that, on 28 November  2017, Mrs J gave online instructions for a payment to debit  her 
account on 30 November  2018.  So, based on what Ive seen Im satisfied that Mrs J 
authorised Barclays  to debit the payment in question from her account  when  it did.
I can understand Mrs Js confusion here. She doesnt recall  setting up the November 2017 
payment instruction. And due to the passage  of time I can appreciate that she wouldnt have 
remembered setting that up. 
I think its most likely,  on balance,  that Mrs J entered the wrong year when she set up the 
November 2017  payment.  And I think she intended  for the payment to debit her account  on 
30 November 2017. I say this because in November 2018 Mrs J was already making 
payments to her mortgage provider by direct  debit. She had no reason to make an additional 
mortgage payment.  The payment that debited Mrs Js account in November 2018  wasnt  for 
the correct sum. From what Ive seen, the amount that was debited matched the amounts 
Mrs J was typically paying towards  her mortgage during 2016 and 2017.  In 2016 and 2017 
Mrs J was regularly setting up online payments to pay her mortgage. After Mrs J set up the 
payment instruction on 28 November 2017,  her mortgage payment didnt debit her account 
that month.  So, that payment was made  on 1 December  2017 by card payment rather than 
the usual bank transfer. 
While I realise  Mrs J made a genuine  mistake  here,  she authorised  the transaction to debit 
her account  on 30 November 2018. It was ultimately her responsibility to enter  the right 
details to make sure that the transaction was made  correctly and that it debited her account 
at the right time. Barclays  couldnt  have known  Mrs J hadnt entered  the payment date 
correctly until Mrs J raised a complaint with it one year later. So, Barclays followed Mrs Js 
instructions in authorising the payment on 30 November 2018. Im satisfied it correctly 
processed the payment using the information Mrs J had provided  and that this problem 
wasnt caused by something Barclays did wrong. 
Ill turn now to the second part of Mrs Js complaint, which is about whether Barclays dealt 
with Mrs Js complaint fairly  and reasonably.  
From what  Ive seen, I think that once  Barclays became aware of this problem it undertook  a 
prompt and thorough investigation. Mrs J raised a complaint in branch on 7 December 2018 
and Barclays issues its final response  on 21 December  2018  well within the eight weeks it 
had to investigate  this complaint.  I also think that Barclays explained clearly  what  had 
happened to cause the November 2018  payment to debit her account. So, Im satisfied it 
dealt with this complaint  fairly and did all it could to resolve this problem for Mrs J. 
Mrs J said shes  worried that another payment will debit her account  in similar circumstances 
in the future. But I think this is unlikely here because this payment debited due to a specific 
instruction Mrs J gave Barclays in 2017.  While  Mrs Js told our service  she experienced a 
problem with payments  debiting  her account  historically Im not persuaded past problems 
were caused  by a banking  error. I say this because I understand that this concern relates to 
a payment instruction she set up on 1 July 2017.  She had wanted the payment to debit her 
account that day. But it debited her account  on 3 July 2017, which  was the next working day. 
This explains why the payment didnt debit  on the date Mrs J had wanted. The date 
discrepancy wasnt due to any errors made  by Barclays.  And I can see that when Mrs J 
complained about this issue to Barclays it compensated  her with £10 as a gesture of 
goodwill. So, I havent seen anything to suggest that additional payments will be made  in the 
future, unless Mrs J instructs Barclays to do so.
Ref: DRN09880763 
I understand Mrs J feels very strongly about the issues  raised in this complaint. But I think 
Barclays acted fairly  and reasonably here and I wont be asking it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0988076