K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains about a decision  taken  by Shawbrook Bank Limited  (SBL) to decline a 
claim she made to it for compensation  following  what she says was the poor install  of eight 
windows to her property.
Mrs P is represented in this complaint by a third party. But for ease I will refer to any 
submissions made by the third party as if they had been made by Mrs P.
I would also like to apologise  for the delay on my part in issuing this decision and to thank 
both parties for the patience they have shown, in particular Mrs P.
background
In January 2016 Mrs P placed an order, with a company that I will call Z, for the supply and 
fit to her property of eight  windows. The cash price  of the supply and fit was £6,851. Mrs P 
paid Z £100 and financed  the balance of £6,751 with a loan with SBL. For reasons not 
material to this complaint  this loan was repaid in full in December 2016.
In February 2016  the windows were fitted by a company that I will call J, a company 
appointed by Z.
In February 2016  Mrs P says she noticed  cracks in her bedroom ceiling and walls.
In March 2016 Mrs P notified Z of the cracks she had noticed to her bedroom  ceiling and 
walls. J attended her property and repaired the cracks with bonding plaster. However, Mrs P 
says the quality of this work was poor.
Mrs P then says it came  to her attention that as well as the repairs  undertaken by J being 
poor it had, in fitting the bedroom  window, caused structural damage  to the front gable.
Mrs P complained to Z about the above but was unhappy with its response. So, she had 
structural repairs undertaken, asbestos  testing  carried  out, asbestos  removed, and internal  
decoration undertaken.
In late 2017/early 2018 Mrs P complained to SBL and said that she was looking,  by way of 
compensation, the following:
£6,998.98 for the eight  windows  supplied  by Z and fitted  by J, on Zs behalf (£100 
deposit, £6,751  capital  sum financed and £147.98  interest)
£7,380 for structural work undertaken on the property by a company that I will call M 
£120 for the asbestos test carried out by a company that I will call S
The cost she incurred  in having  the asbestos  removed from the property by a company 
that I will call C
£1,623.98 for the internal redecoration  of the property by a company that I will call V.
Mrs P also said that she was looking for a letter of apology from Z.
SBL didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint so she referred  it to our service  for investigation.
Ref: DRN01796732Mrs Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said;
damage to the property appears to have been  as a result of underlying  structural issues  
with it
the underlying structural  issues with the property wouldnt have been known to Z (or J) 
given no structural  survey  was undertaken
neither Z nor J undertook to carry out a structural survey  of the property
the terms and conditions of the supply and installation contract  states;
The main  purpose of our surveyor's  inspection  is to ascertain the feasibility of the 
installation shown  on the schedule of works. The inspection will be confined to 
those areas,  which  directly relate to the proposed  installation and we will not 
undertake, nor shall we be responsible for, a general survey of the premises/ 
property.
We will not be responsible  for remedying any defect that existed before the 
installation or for any damage arising from such  a defect.
neither Z nor J undertook to carry out anything  other than a visual  inspection  of the 
immediate works area for the presence  of asbestos
there is insufficient  evidence  to find that the disturbance of the asbestos was as a result  
of any error on the part of Z (or J)
the offer by Z of a resized  window  following  structural repairs was fair.
Mrs P didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary she said:
asbestos was disturbed  during the window install
the ceiling panels containing the asbestos were right by the windows
V said that it could  and should have been apparent to Z (or J) that there was asbestos  in 
the ceiling and the window installation shouldnt have commenced
Z agreed  to cover certain remedial  costs but then went back  on its word
wrong plaster  was used by J when repairing the ceiling, resulting in further costs  being 
incurred
In support of the above Mrs P made  specific reference to a number of pages of the 33-page 
technical survey report undertaken by J and a number  of other documents  (some previously 
submitted and some new).
The investigator considered Mrs Ps response  to his view but wasnt persuaded to change 
his mind. This was confirmed to Mrs P in a second  view.
Mrs P didnt agree with the investigators second  view and provided  reasons why. In the 
main these reasons  were  a reiteration  and an expansion of her previous submissions.
The investigator considered Mrs Ps response  to his second view but wasnt  persuaded to 
change his mind. This was confirmed to Mrs P in a third view.
Ref: DRN01796733Mrs P didnt agree with the investigators third view and provided  reasons why. In the main  
these reasons were  a reiteration and an expansion of her previous submissions. These 
reasons were acknowledged  by the investigator who also confirmed, to Mrs P and SBL, that 
the complaint  would,  in due course,  be passed  to an ombudsman  for review and decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in February 2021. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Its clear both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. They  have both 
provided detailed  submissions in support of their respective views which  I can 
confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety.  However, I trust that both parties 
will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central  
issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  point raised. The purpose of my 
decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. I would also 
point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, 
Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance  and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate)  what I consider was good  industry practice at the relevant time.
Mrs Ps contract with Z was financed under arrangements between  it and SBL. Under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 if Mrs P has a claim for breach of 
contract against Z, she has a like claim against  SBL.  The Consumer Rights  Act 2015  
states that in order to conform to contract, services must be performed with 
reasonable care and skill. And that goods must be of satisfactory quality.
the supply and installation
Now I appreciate Mrs Ps dissatisfaction and frustration, but Im satisfied there has been  
no breach of contract by Z in respect of the supply and installation of the eight windows.
What is critical  in me coming  to this conclusion is the contract terms and conditions 
Mrs P agreed to be bound  by, the survey  that was carried out and the content of the 
survey report.
First, I would like to address Mrs Ps most recent  submission (the point not having 
been made before)  that no survey was ever carried out, that she didnt sign any 
survey report  and that all her purported signatures  on the survey report are identical.
Now Ive considered  the survey report very carefully  and given the detail that it goes 
into (including measurements in respect of all eight windows) Im not persuaded a 
survey wasnt  carried  out. Ive also looked  at the signatures on the survey report that 
Mrs P says arent  hers,  and which in her view are all identical. 
But having  done so Im not persuaded, on the balance  of probabilities, these  
signatures arent Mrs Ps. I say this because having satisfied myself that a survey  
was carried out, I see no reason  why Mrs P wouldnt have been asked to sign the 
Ref: DRN01796734report documenting that survey. Im also not persuaded that these  signatures  are 
identical. 
Furthermore, I would  add that its quite possible that given the passage  of time Mrs P 
simply cant now recall  signing  the survey report and that she simply doesnt recognise  
the signatures as being hers because, as I understand it, she signed  the survey  report  
electronically  on a tablet for example  rather than by hand on a paper copy. 
I will now turn to the terms and conditions  of the contract and the content of the 
survey report.
The contract terms and conditions state:
4 Survey
This agreement is conditional  upon  a satisfactory  survey
6 Premises
a) The main purpose  of our surveyor's  inspection is to ascertain  the feasibility of the 
installation shown on the schedule of works. The inspection  will be confined to those  
areas which directly relate to the proposed installation and we will not undertake, nor 
shall we be responsible for, a general survey  of the premises/  property.
b) we will not be responsible for remedying any defect that existed  before  the 
installation or for any damage arising from such  a defect
8) Additional Work

c) We will make good internally and externally, but we cannot be responsible for any 
non matching due to the weathering or ageing of existing finishes such  as bricks, 
pebble dashing, rendering  or tryolean etc. We will make good to a pre-decoration 
standard, but not any redecoration or retiling.
d) We cannot guarantee that wallpaper,  tiles, woodwork  or plaster  immediately 
adjacent to the existing frames will not be damaged when the frames are removed.
The survey  report states:
Two man team only required
There are no asbestos panels or fixtures
Jacking Posts and Acros [sic] required
Mrs P submits that on at least one day in question only one man was present on site. 
Now I cant say for certain whether Mrs Ps submission in this respect is correct, but I 
dont think its material to the outcome of the complaint. I say this because Im not 
persuaded that whether  one man was, or two men were,  on site would have been,  in 
itself, the cause of the damage  Mrs P is seeking  compensation  for. Its also my 
understanding that reference to a two man team meant that no more  than two men 
were required  and there was no requirement for additional help, including  a hoist.
Ref: DRN01796735Mrs P says that J only used acrows  after structural movement  was seen to be 
occurring. Now I know I cant say for certain  Mrs P is wrong in her submission  in this 
respect. But I just dont find such a submission  to be plausible  or persuasive. In my 
view with the surveyor having identified that jacking posts and acrows were required,  
and with their use not being particularly onerous, I see no reason  why they wouldnt 
have been used by J and used by J correctly. Furthermore, had Mrs P observed  J 
using acrows only after movement was seen to be occurring, I might  have  expected 
Mrs P to have raised concerns with both J and Z immediately, yet she doesnt appear 
to have done so.
Mrs P says that as part of the survey  J could and should have identified  that 
asbestos was present  in her front bedroom ceiling. Now Im not persuaded J could 
and should have identified that asbestos  was present. But even if Im wrong on this 
point Im not persuaded that a failure in this respect  by J has caused Mrs P the loss 
she is claiming.
I say this because  had J identified the presence, or possible presence,  of asbestos in 
the front bedroom then a sample would have to have  been taken and tested,  the 
asbestos would then have to have  been  removed and the bedroom re decorated, all 
at Mrs Ps cost. And ultimately this is what Mrs P ended up having to do, albeit after 
installation rather than before.
I also think that its worth pointing out here that the agreement states:
We will make good  to a pre-decoration, but not any redecoration or retiling. [my 
emphasis]
And the survey report states:
Note 6  A charge  is applicable where  this work  involves the need  to take a sample 
for subsequent scientific analysis  to establish  any asbestos content. Asbestos 
products can be removed as a normal  part of our installation process. Asbestos 
Insulation Boards are subject to strict  HSE Regulations and we will arrange for 
licensed contractors to remove these  prior to our installation. [my emphasis]
I will now turn to what I understand  is Mrs Ps main complaint point, and that is Js 
survey could and should  have identified  that there was an issue  with the front gable, 
which she then later had to pay to have remedied.  
I appreciate Mrs P will be disappointed, but Im not persuaded that there has been 
any failing  on the part of J here.  Notwithstanding  that the agreement states: we will 
not undertake,  nor shall we be responsible for, a general survey  of the premises/ 
property Im satisfied that it was entirely reasonable for the survey to be restricted to 
a visual  inspection of the property window  openings with the old windows in situ and 
that such an inspection  wouldnt have identified any issues  with the front gable. I 
would also add, and I accept that Mrs P isnt a surveyor, that she herself hadnt 
noticed any issues with the front gable herself prior to works  commencing.
Ref: DRN01796736Ive considered the content of a letter provided  by Mrs P dated 25 June 2017  from 
her own appointed structural engineer. But Im unable to place much weight on this. 
This is because this letter was written  after the install and after movement to the front 
gable had become apparent to all. It also doesnt  state who might be responsible for 
this movement, or whether the potential for such movement could and should have 
been picked up before installation.
So, with the above in mind, and given that the agreement states the limitations  of Js 
survey and that Z will not be responsible for remedying any defect that existed before 
the installation,  or for any damage  arising from such a defect, I find that it would be 
neither fair, nor reasonable to hold SBL liable for the sum of £7,380 Mrs P is seeking  
the recovery of.
standard warranty/guarantee
Z, as part of its supply and installation package, offered a ten-year guarantee to 
Mrs P at no direct cost.  Now given that Z is no longer trading this guarantee, in 
essence, hasnt  been provided   or at least it hasnt been provided for the full the ten 
years promised. So, in my view, this constitutes a breach  of contract  for which  Mrs P 
should be fairly compensated. And to fairly compensate Mrs P in this respect I find 
that SBL should provide  the cover that would have been provided under this 
guarantee itself and for the remaining term. 
additional warranty/guarantee
Z, as part of its supply and installation package, offered (at a cost of £90 a year),  an 
additional guarantee underwritten by a company that I will call G. Now its unclear 
from what has been provided whether Mrs P wanted, or believed she had purchased,  
this additional  guarantee. But given that Mrs P has provided no documentary  
evidence that she paid for such cover,  either at the outset or annually thereafter, or 
any other documentary evidence, such as a policy schedule or policy booklet, I find 
that on the balance of probabilities she neither wanted, nor did she believe she had 
purchased, the additional  guarantee offered by Z. 
other matters
I note that in response to the investigators  first view Mrs P made reference to a 
number of other issues, including one or more internal  window boards (sills) not 
being installed, one or more window openers catching, an issue  with the fire exit 
window and an issue with draughts.  But I cant see that these issues have ever been 
brought to SBLs attention, so I make  no finding  in respect  of them  in this decision 
and these issues will need  to be raised with SBL as a separate  and new complaint. 
SBL didnt respond  to my provisional  decision.
Mrs P responded to say that she didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary 
she said:
She finds it difficult to understand how I can conclude there were  underlying  
structural issues with her property  if no structural survey  was carried  out by J.
Ref: DRN01796737There were no structural issues with her property when she purchased  it, as 
confirmed in the structural  survey carried out at the time.
A structural survey carried out by an independent structural  contractor after J had 
finished states the weight of the gable had pulled the supporting timbers forward  and 
down.
Although asbestos was present  in her property prior to J commencing work,  this was 
in an undisturbed  state. And it was J that disturbed it.
The technical survey  report, running to 33 pages  and containing technical 
information, instilled  her with confidence  and persuaded her to agree to works 
commencing.
Z (and J) has breached its duty of care towards  her and this breach has endangered 
her medical condition and resulted in structural damage to her property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P says she finds it difficult  to understand how I can conclude there were underlying 
structural issues with her property if no structural survey was carried  out by J. 
Now I accept that I cant say for certain  what the structural integrity of Mrs Ps property was 
prior to J commencing works  and that no structural survey was carried  out by J. But as I said 
in my provisional decision,  where  the information  Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.  And based on 
everything that has been said and submitted, Im satisfied, on the balance  of probabilities, 
that the structural issues with Mrs Ps property were underlying and inherent  and didnt  occur  
as a result  of what J did, or, failed to do.
Mrs P says there were  no structural issues  with the property when she purchased it, but Ive 
seen no documentary evidence in support of this submission,  for example a copy  of the 
structural survey  that Mrs P says was undertaken at the time. But in any event, its quite 
possible that there were  structural  issues with the property at the time Mrs P purchased it 
and these were simply not picked  up in the survey  that was undertaken. Its also quite 
possible that structural issues with the property started to develop after Mrs P purchased  it, 
but before  J commenced works.
Mrs P says a structural survey carried out by an independent structural  contractor after J had 
finished states the weight of the gable had pulled  the supporting timbers forward  and down. 
Now I accept that Mrs P has a letter from her own appointed structural engineer (contractor), 
a copy of which Ive seen. But this letter isnt a structural survey report. Also,  as I said in my 
provisional decision, Im unable  to place much weight on this letter. This is because this 
letter was written after the install and after movement to the front gable had become 
apparent to all. It also doesnt state who might  be responsible for this movement, or whether 
the potential for such movement could and should have been picked up before installation.
Ref: DRN01796738I accept, on the balance of probabilities, that J disturbed asbestos  in Mrs Ps property. But as 
I said in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded  this caused Mrs P any loss and I still 
hold this view.
Mrs P says that the technical survey  report, given the manner in which  it was written and its 
length, instilled  her with confidence and persuaded her to agree to works commencing. Now 
notwithstanding I find it had to reconcile this submission with Mrs Ps submission that no 
survey was ever carried out and that she didnt sign the report,  I cant  see how this 
submission helps Mrs P. Ultimately it was Mrs Ps decision to agree  to the works 
commencing and if there was anything in the survey report she was unsure about,  or 
required clarity on, she was always free to ask J (or Z).
I appreciate Mrs P feels strongly  about this matter, but Im simply not persuaded that there  
has been any breach of duty by J (or Z). And because  of this, and because  of what I say 
elsewhere in this decision,  I find that it would be neither fair nor reasonable to hold SBL 
liable for any structural damage  to Mrs Ps property, or liable  for the costs  Mrs P incurred  in 
having that damage repaired.
Notwithstanding that Im not persuaded that there  has been  any breach of duty by J (or Z), I 
would add that Ive seen  very little, if any, evidence that Mrs P developed a medical  condition,  
or had an existing medical condition worsen,  as a result of anything J did, or failed to do.
I appreciate that Mrs P will be disappointed  but given what  I say above I find no good  reason 
to depart form my provisional findings and I now confirm  them  as final.
my final decision
My final decision is that Shawbrook Bank Limited should provide the cover that would have 
been provided under Zs guarantee itself,  and for the remaining term, but it need  do nothing 
further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2021.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0179673