K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains Family Finance Limited  didnt tell him it hadnt accepted his application for 
finance to buy a laptop. He says this meant he didnt have enough time to buy a laptop 
elsewhere before Christmas, which caused  him a lot of distress.  And he says Family 
Finances agents  didnt  take his concerns seriously.
background
On 17 December 2018 Mr E applied to Family Finance to purchase a laptop on finance,  
which he says he wanted to give as a Christmas present. Family Finance spoke to Mr E the 
same day and started the application process.  Over  the next few days  it says it tried calling 
Mr E to arrange the next part of the process,  a home  visit. But it wasnt  able to reach  him so 
it closed his application on 20 December 2018.   
Mr E got back in touch  with Family Finance  that same day, and its agent  visited him on 21 
December 2018.  Family Finance says at that visit the agent  explained the application 
process and that it would call Mr E if his application  was accepted,  or write to him if it was 
declined. And that delivery was normally within two business days.
Mr E called Family Finance on 24 December  2018 to see when his laptop would be 
delivered, and it told him his application had been declined.  Mr E says not finding  out hed 
been declined  sooner  meant he didnt have time to buy a laptop elsewhere  before 
Christmas, and that not having a laptop  spoiled Christmas and caused a lot of upset. Mr E 
also thought Family  Finance  hadnt  taken his concerns seriously when  he called.
Mr E complained to Family Finance, and over the next few weeks  became  unhappy  with how 
it was handling  his complaint. In its final response, Family Finance said an error meant a 
decline letter  hadnt been  sent to Mr E when it should have been. It apologised for this and 
said it was considering updating  its communication  processes. It also said that even  if it had 
sent the letter, Mr E might  not have got it before Christmas. It was sorry Mr E thought its 
agents were unsympathetic and that it hadnt acknowledged Mr Es complaint sooner.
Mr E was still unhappy so he got in touch with our service. Our investigator thought Family 
Finance had explained its application processes to Mr E. She said it hadnt communicated  
effectively with him about his application, but that hed still been  told the outcome within  the 
specified timescales. So she couldnt  say a failure to communicate was the reason he didnt 
have a laptop. 
Mr E disagreed so his complaint  has been passed  to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I realise  this will be a disappointment to Mr E, so Ill explain  why. 
Mr E says that Family Finance should  have  recordings of the calls he made. But its not 
required to record calls,  and its confirmed it doesnt  record calls in this part of its business. 
Because no records of the conversations between Mr E and Family Finance were  taken at 
the time,  Ill need  to base my decision  on the balance of probability.  That is, what I think is 
likely to have happened.
Ref: DRN00962662Mr E says the Family Finance agent  who visited said getting a laptop  in time for Christmas  
wouldnt be a problem.  In his complaint email to Family Finance Mr E says I was advised 
that the application would be completed and its possible I may have delivery on Saturday 
22nd but more likely  xmas eve. I was concerned with delivery xmas eve due to timescales 
and the fact it was a Christmas Present but was advised it would not be an issue.  
Its possible Family Finance might have been  able to deliver a laptop to Mr E before 
Christmas. But Family Finance sending Mr E a laptop depended on it deciding to accept his 
application for finance, as that was what he was going to buy the laptop with. And that was a 
decision for its finance team to make, not the agent  who visited  Mr E. 
Taking all this into consideration,  I dont think its likely the agent told Mr E his application 
would be accepted and that it would send him a laptop in time for Christmas. I think its more 
likely that the agent  told Mr E there  was a finance application process  and gave him an 
indication of delivery timescales if his application  was successful. 
Mr E says Family  Finance  didnt  tell him his finance  application was unsuccessful,  and so he 
was left without  a laptop for Christmas. But I dont  think its reasonable to hold Family 
Finance responsible for that. Firstly, as Ive said, it was never guaranteed that Family 
Finance would provide Mr E with a laptop  that depended on whether it decided to accept 
or reject his application  for finance. It rejected his application, so for that reason Mr E 
wouldnt have been getting a laptop from Family Finance.
Secondly, Ive seen  that Mr E first applied to Family Finance on 17 December and it then 
tried but was unable  to reach him until 20 December 2018. Its unfortunate Mr E first 
contacted Family  Finance  so close to Christmas and that it then couldnt reach him. But 
those things were outside  Family  Finances control so it wouldnt be reasonable to hold it 
responsible for them.
Finally, Family  Finance isnt obliged  to call its customers to let them know their application 
has been rejected.  Instead its said its process  in that situation  is to write to them,  and its 
entitled to decide to do that. But it accepts it made a mistake by not writing  to Mr E and has 
apologised for that. 
Mr E found  out his application had been declined when he called on 24 December 2018. 
This was three days after Family  Finances agent  visited him, which I dont think is an 
unreasonably long time. And even if it had written to Mr E as it should have done, I think  its 
unlikely hed have  received the letter sooner than 24 December  2018  because of the 
pressures on the postal system at that time of year. So I dont think Mr E would have found 
out any faster than he did. Ultimately, by ordering the laptop that close  to Christmas, Mr E 
was always taking the risk it might  not arrive in time, and I dont think I can hold Family 
Finance responsible for this.
Mr E is also unhappy that Family Finances agents didnt take his concerns seriously when 
he called. Family Finance has apologised for how it communicated with Mr E, and in this 
particular case I think thats  a fair way of putting things right. So Im not asking Family 
Finance to do anything  more. 
Ref: DRN00962663my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0096266