K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the car he acquired  with finance from Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
background
Mr A says he acquired the car new in March 2018.  He says in September 2018 he noticed 
intermittent vibrations coming  from the accelerator  pedal when the car was moving. And he 
says in February 2019 he experienced a problem with the car not accelerating  properly when 
going around roundabouts.
Mr A also says he incurred additional travel  costs as a result  of having a faulty  car. And he 
says a dealership  replaced the throttle in February 2019. 
So, Mr A says he wants to reject the car and be reimbursed  everything hes paid under his 
finance agreement, including the cost of servicing.
Our adjudicator thought Mr As complaint  should  be partly upheld.  She recommended  MBFS 
should refund 20% of the monthly instalments Mr A had paid under his finance agreement  
from September 2018 to February 2019. The adjudicator also recommended that MBFS 
should pay Mr A £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.  
MBFS disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions.  It said its unclear how shed concluded 
that the most  recent  visit to the retailer suggests a fault, when the retailer itself has 
confirmed there was no fault with the car. And it said the adjudicator doesnt seem  to have 
considered both the retailers findings and those of the independent inspection. 
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
I recently issued my provisional  findings on this complaint. I said I could see an independent 
inspection was carried out on Mr As car that concluded the issue  hed complained about 
couldnt be replicated. I could also see the dealership couldnt  find a fault with the car, but it 
decided to replace  the throttle  as a precautionary measure. 
In light of the above information I was minded to conclude I wasnt  in a position to find it 
more likely than not that Mr As car was supplied with a fault that meant it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
I acknowledged Mr A feels strongly  about  this matter. I also noted the job card when he took 
the car to the dealership  recorded the issue he wanted investigating, but that didnt mean the 
dealership had found the same issue. And I was also minded to conclude  its decision to 
replace the throttle as a precautionary measure couldnt reasonably be interpreted  as 
indicating it had found a fault.
So, in these circumstances,  I was minded to conclude I couldnt fairly and reasonably uphold     
Mr As complaint.   
This was different  from the adjudicators opinion. So, I invited both parties  to comment and 
provide any additional evidence for me to consider. 
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
Ref: DRN09155672my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Mr A said the issue with the throttle  hadnt  been dealt 
with by the supplying dealership but by another authorised dealership.  He said this 
dealership didnt replace the throttle instead  it dismantled and reassembled  it to eliminate the 
vibration, which  he said was very successful. And he gave us a copy of an email  from the 
relevant dealership that indicated it had identified and repaired a fault relating to the throttle.
Our adjudicator then asked the authorised dealership that had carried  out the work referred 
to above for any further information  it could  give us about the nature of the fault and how it 
was repaired.  The service manager sent us a copy of the report  from the technician  whod  
dealt with Mr As car. This confirmed the technician had road tested the car and found no 
fault. The technician  had then removed and reinstalled the throttle pedal and had then 
connected a diagnostic machine and found no fault. And the service  manager concluded by 
saying that, to his understanding, the dealership hadnt experienced Mr As concern, but it 
had looked into that concern and carried out the actions referred to above.
Ive carefully considered  all of the additional  information Ive received following  my 
provisional decision. And I acknowledge the dealership that carried out the work Ive referred  
to in relation to the throttle  of Mr As car was different  from the supplying  dealership.
Whilst its clear  the throttle pedal was removed and reinstalled, neither  the dealership that 
carried out this work  nor the independent  inspector has been able to confirm that any fault 
was found. So, in these circumstances, I dont  have enough information to conclude  the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. And this means I cant fairly  and 
reasonably uphold Mr As complaint against MBFS as his finance provider.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint against  Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr A complains about the car he acquired with finance  from Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS).
Ref: DRN09155673background
Mr A says he acquired the car new in March 2018. He says in September  2018 he noticed intermittent  
vibrations coming from the accelerator pedal when the car was moving. And he says in February  
2019 he experienced a problem with the car not accelerating properly when going  around 
roundabouts.
Mr A also says he incurred additional travel costs as a result of having  a faulty car. And he says the 
dealership replaced the throttle in February 2019. 
So, Mr A says he wants to reject the car and be reimbursed everything hes paid under  his finance 
agreement, including the cost of servicing.
Our adjudicator thought Mr As complaint should  be partly upheld. She recommended MBFS should 
refund 20% of the monthly instalments Mr A had paid under his finance agreement from September  
2018 to February 2019. The adjudicator also recommended  that MBFS should pay Mr A £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused. 
MBFS disagreed  with the adjudicators conclusions. It said its unclear how shed concluded that the 
most recent  visit to the retailer suggests a fault, when the retailer itself has confirmed there was no 
fault with the car. And it said the adjudicator  doesnt seem to have considered both the retailers 
findings and those of the independent inspection. 
So, the matters been referred  to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im currently  minded not to uphold Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
MBFS supplied Mr As car under a hire purchase agreement, so it was responsible for ensuring  that 
the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I see an independent inspection was carried out on Mr As car that concluded the issue hed 
complained about couldnt  be replicated. I also see the supplying dealership couldnt  find a fault with 
Mr As car, but it decided to replace  the throttle  as a precautionary measure. 
In light of the above information Im minded to conclude Im not in a position to find it more likely than 
not that Mr As car was supplied  with a fault that meant it wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
I acknowledge Mr A feels strongly  about this matter.  I also note the job card when he took the car to 
the dealership  recorded  the issue he wanted investigating, but that didnt mean  the dealership had 
found the same issue. And Im also minded to conclude its decision to replace the throttle  as a 
precautionary measure  cant reasonably be interpreted as indicating  it had found a fault.
So, in these circumstances,  Im minded to conclude I cant fairly and reasonably  uphold     Mr As 
complaint.   
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above but subject to both parties  responses to this provisional decision Im 
currently minded  not to uphold Mr As complaint against Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK 
Limited.
Robert Collinson
Ref: DRN09155674ombudsman
Ref: DRN0915567