K822xcomplaint
Ms B complains  that the fitted kitchen unit she purchased through  a fixed sum loan 
agreement, financed by Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited trading as Barclays  Partner 
Finance (BPF) was not of satisfactory quality or fitted with reasonable care and skill. She 
wants to reject the goods, end the agreement  and receive compensation.
background 
Ms B says in January  2018 she entered into an agreement with a company Ill refer to as W, 
for a new kitchen which it was to supply and install. She says she made a deposit payment  
to W at the time but later decided to finance  the majority of the cost through a fixed  sum loan 
agreement with BPF. This agreement was signed in May 2018.
Ms B says the installation was completed on 9 August 2018. She says she made an 
immediate complaint to W as she felt the work was terrible. She describes damaged units, 
holes and additional damage to her living room floor and bathroom.
Ms B explains that after an inspection  it was agreed by W that remedial  work  would be 
carried out. And in September 2018 new fitters arrived to do this work.  But she said they 
caused more damage,  including a hole in the fridge freezer unit. She says shes  complained 
to the furniture ombudsman and this service. And shes told us she has instructed solicitors  
to bring claims against both W and BPF.
In addition, Ms B has recently told us about what she feels are further consequential losses. 
She says she found rats running round  her kitchen and had to bring  in pest controllers. And 
shes had to have  a boiler fitted  in the attic so that it was not impacted by the state her
kitchen is in. 
BPF told us it had received Ms Bs complaint in early September  2018.  It said that she had 
not made it clear what she wanted in order to resolve the complaint - so it had closed the 
claim and not upheld the complaint as Ms B had approached the furniture ombudsman. It 
said the finance agreement has not yet been activated.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 9 July 2019. I said that I intended to 
uphold the complaint and that I thought Ms B should  be allowed to end the finance  
agreement. I also felt that arrangements should be made to collect  the previously installed 
items and do any necessary reinstatement work. I said I intended to award  Ms B £500  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  she had experienced.
Both parties  have responded  to my provisional  decision. BPF said it accepted  my provisional 
findings. Ms B has indicated that - whilst  she accepts my provisional decision - shed like me 
to reconsider my view about not awarding  the costs  shes incurred in having  to have a new 
boiler installed and for the pest control measures shes taken.
I thank both parties for their replies.  Ive decided not to change the views I expressed in my 
provisional decision and Ill explain why in my final decision  which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN00667602Im sorry  Ms B has experienced  the inconvenience  and distress  which  has occurred 
following the installation  of this kitchen. Whilst it was to be expected that such  a major 
refurbishment would result in some  disruption  to her household - and Im sure Ms B 
accepted this - it could  not reasonably be anticipated that twelve  months  later her daily life is 
still affected by the failure to properly install the kitchen. And the effect this has had on Ms B 
has been exacerbated as she suffers from multiple health issues. This is an extremely  
complex situation, and in order to explain my decision I need to identify the issues Im able to 
deal with, and those which do not fall within the jurisdiction of this service. To fully explain 
the sequence of events  Ive had to make  several  references to W - but I must make  clear 
that I cant make any formal findings  or make  an award against  W.
Ms B brings her claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. And whilst I dont 
apply the law - directly - I do take it into account.  And relevant  legislation here includes 
section 75. Briefly summarised,  this says that where a consumer uses  certain  types of credit  
to pay for goods and/or  services  and the supplier  (in this case W) of those goods and/or 
services is in breach  of contract then the consumer has a like claim against the supplier of 
finance (in this case BPF).  And the Consumer Rights Act, 2015  requires goods  to be of 
satisfactory quality when  supplied and services to be carried out with reasonable  care and 
skill.
As Ms Bs complaint is about BPF Im looking at whether BPF has dealt with her claim under 
section 75 fairly. Im not deciding on the merits of the underlying claim  she may have against 
W. Although in determining if BPF has treated her fairly, I have to consider  the way in which 
its considered the validity  of that claim.
At the same time as having the kitchen  fitted  Ms B separately contracted with the kitchen 
fitter to have additional  work done.  This included tiling to the kitchen floor and work on her 
bathroom. That did not form part of the finance agreement with BPF and therefore is not 
something I can look at. But it seems possible that part of this additional  work  - its alleged  
some of the tiling was missed or unevenly laid - may have also impacted on the installation 
of the kitchen.
Ms B also made a complaint to the furniture  ombudsman about W. This overlaps her claim 
against BPF.  This resulted in an offer being  made by W to undertake remedial work and pay 
£600 compensation. But it seems  that the relationship with W broke down and this decision 
was never  implemented.
At various stages during  the time this complaint has been investigated by this service, Ms B 
has referred to legal proceedings against  both W and BPF. As far as Im aware, no 
proceedings against either have been issued. But letters of claim have been  sent.  Ive asked 
for, and received,  an assurance from solicitors  acting for Ms B that no formal  court  
proceedings against BPF will be commenced before Ive issued a decision. It would be 
undesirable, as well as extremely difficult, to seek a resolution of this complaint whilst  
parallel proceedings  were  being  conducted over essentially  the same  subject matter.
Whilst the legal claim  Ive referred  to against  BPF has been put on hold, as the letter of claim 
issued by her solicitors is dated 20 June 2019, Im taking  the details set out in that letter to 
represent Mr Bs present  position with regard  to this complaint. And it contains issues  which 
were not raised  when  the complaint was initially brought to this service - although some were 
raised later. Ill deal with these aspects later in my decision.
Ref: DRN00667603In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. Where  evidence is unclear, 
incomplete or contradictory  - as some  of it is here - I make my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities.
Its not in dispute  that the kitchen was not fitted  to the required standard  or that there were 
faults with some of the component parts. That is to say the goods supplied werent of 
satisfactory quality and the work  was not performed with reasonable care and skill. The 
photographs Ive seen clearly bear this out. And whilst attempts were made to rectify the 
situation, these  foundered  for reasons which arent entirely clear.  BPF has suggested that 
Ms B was obstructive and refused to let the replacement fitters re-enter her property. Ms B 
describes further  damage being  caused  by them as well as rude and aggressive behaviour. 
As theres  no independent  evidence, this aspect  is unlikely  ever to be resolved. It hardly 
seems plausible  that Ms B would unreasonably  prevent remedial  work  being completed.  
Although I could understand her having doubts  about the likely quality of any further work 
undertaken by W. The fact remains that the kitchen  is still in a state of disrepair  and is 
unusable. And after such a length of time that is intolerable.
In my view there is clear  evidence  a breach of contract occurred. And, as the finance 
agreement referred to both the items  being  supplied and the fitting,  I think BPF should have 
accepted Ms B had a valid claim under section 75. But I think  additional confusion was 
created when BPF wrote to Ms B on 2 October  2018, and later confirmed on 22 November 
2018, the various options she might have  in regard to her section 75 claim.
Options 1 and 2 in the letter amounted  to Ms B permitting remedial work or accepting  the 
kitchen as it was and seeking a partial refund and compensation. But the letter went on:
3) Request rejection for the kitchen to be removed and the finance to be cancelled. (This 
must be based on outstanding manufacturing  issues and not installation issues).
The finance  agreement covered both the supply and fitting  and W provided the fitter. And as 
the damage to the units was apparently caused during the fitting  it seems  to me the two 
issues are practically inseparable. Ms B was entitled - by the end of the process - to have an 
undamaged kitchen fitted to the required standard. W failed to provide this on both counts 
and I think BPF should have recognised  this and upheld her section 75 claim.
The issue  of redress is of considerable  importance  for Ms B as she wants  to be able to 
install a new kitchen as soon as possible. But in order to do this her existing kitchen has to 
be cleared and restored to a state where  this work can commence. But Ive also got to 
consider the need to mitigate loss. There are units and replacement components which  
might be reusable, so Ive asked  Ms B to allow for these  to be recovered  and shes  agreed.
I understand BPF has been in touch  with W about  removing any items it (W) wishes to 
recover and putting  the kitchen back into a state  for the new fitting to take place. But as I 
cant make  an order  against W Ill have  to ask BPF to make those arrangements. 
Alternatively, Id expect it to pay for removal costs and any reinstatement  work  so that Ms B 
can get her new kitchen fitted.
Ref: DRN00667604Im not able to make  any award for the consequential losses  claimed by Ms B in respect  of 
pest control and the fitting of a new boiler in this decision. This is because BPF hasnt  had 
the opportunity  to fully consider these and so theyd  need to be dealt with as part of a fresh 
complaint. But in order to obtain compensation for consequential losses, Ms B would have to 
show they arise directly from a breach of contract  and were  a foreseeable result of that 
breach. She may wish to seek further  advice from her solicitors on this point. Nor can I make 
any award relating  to her bathroom,  which did not form part of the financial agreement.
I note that the letter  of claim sent to BPF also refers to the prospect  of a claim for personal  
injury - which I understand  is related to a deterioration in Ms Bs health. Again, that is not 
something I can look at - as it does  not fall within our jurisdiction.
As this complaint  is brought only against BPF Im not able to award compensation to Ms B 
for any distress and inconvenience brought about by the failings of W. I can only consider if 
BPF itself has made mistakes relating to her claim and if these caused additional problems.
By the time BPF became  involved  in the complaint most of the issues  relating to the supply  
and installation of the kitchen had already  taken  place. But where  I think  BPF could have 
done better is in recognising the impact the poor installation of the kitchen was having  on Ms 
B. And I think  it had sufficient information  that should have allowed it to recognise the validity 
of her claim. Had it done so I think its probable Ms B would have been able to get her new 
kitchen fitted much  sooner and avoided some  of the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced.
Its important that where there are different parties against whom  a claim might be brought,  
that I take this into consideration  in order to avoid double recovery. And in suggesting that 
BPF should pay Ms B £500 for any distress  and inconvenience it caused  I make it clear that 
this is related to BPFs actions alone. As I think its probable  the failures by W resulted in 
most of the distress and inconvenience experienced by Ms B, the award Im recommending
is not able to reflect the entirety of the situation  shes experienced. And Ms B is free to seek  
any further redress from W if she is able to do so.
I can also see that the agreement refers to Ms B having paid an initial  deposit  (£1,400) to W 
- which she says has not been  refunded.  BPF has indicated it is able to arrange with W for 
this to be returned to Ms B. But as Ms B has a like claim  against BPF, the most suitable 
way of dealing  with this - to minimise any further  delay and inconvenience  to Ms B - is to 
require BPF to refund this payment.
In summary,  Im upholding  the complaint and I once again express my regret  that Ms B has 
had to go through this distressing experience  for so long.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
To resolve  this complaint,  I require  Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance  to take the following action:
Ref: DRN006676051.Make  arrangements for the removal of items  previously installed and/or supplied 
under the finance  agreement, and at no cost to Ms B;
2.Make  arrangements for any necessary reinstatement work  which  arises from 1 above 
to enable the fitting of a new kitchen to commence;
3.End the finance  agreement with nothing for Ms B to pay and arrange for any record  
of it to be removed  from Ms Bs credit file;
4.If not already  repaid, refund any initial deposit  and add 8% per year simple interest 
from date of payment  to date of settlement;
5.Pay Ms B £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0066760