K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc mis-sold him a finance  agreement for a 
car. 
background
In May 2014  Mr M acquired a car from a dealer using a finance agreement with Santander, 
due to end in June 2018. 
Mr M said he wanted to voluntarily terminate the agreement. And that on three occasions 
from May 2016 to February 2018 he tried to do this but was told each time that it wasnt 
possible because he had a Fixed Sum Loan. But Mr M understood his agreement  to be a 
Conditional Sale Agreement. 
In June 2017 Mr M had written to the dealer asking  it to confirm the outcome of a 
conversation they had had which was that the dealer hadnt been aware that the agreement  
had been converted to a Fixed Sum Loan.  On 21 June 2017 the general manager  had 
confirmed that he had spoken  to his sales manager who at the time was not informed that Mr 
Ms agreement was converted from a Conditional  Sale agreement to a Fixed Sum Loan. Mr 
M brought this evidence to Santander at the time and then again  in February 2018. Mr M 
believed this proved that the dealer had been  unaware the agreement had been converted  
to a Fixed  Sum Loan. 
This time Santander  upheld the complaint. It said in recognition of its error it offered to take 
back the vehicle  and cover any remaining monthly  instalments on the agreement. Mr M 
wasnt happy with this so he brought his complaint  to this service. He believed Santander 
should refund all the payments he had made  since he first brought up the issue,  in 25 May 
2016. 
Our adjudicator thought that Santander hadnt acted fairly with Mr M but Mr M disagreed with 
the proposed  remedy. 
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence  I issued  a provisional decision to Mr M and Santander. In 
this decision I said as follows:
payments refund
Mr M first tried to terminate the agreement in May 2016 and would like to be 
compensated from this point. I can understand why Mr M feels this way as he wanted 
to return the car and was unable to, as well as discovering he had a different 
agreement than he thought. 
If Mr M had a Conditional Sale Agreement as he thought he did, he wouldve had the 
right to voluntarily terminate the agreement once he had passed the half-way mark. 
Taking into consideration interest payments this wouldve  occurred in month  35, 
which was April 2017. So Mr M wouldnt in fact have been in a position to return  the 
car in May 2016. 
Ref: DRN06093372Im satisfied that any remedy should  take into consideration the fact Mr M couldnt  
actually terminate until April 2017   the halfway  point  of the agreement he thought  
hed taken out.
As the adjudicator pointed out Mr M had full use of the car for the duration of time it 
was in his possession and he covered 87,029 miles prior to its collection. The car 
was new at the start of the agreement. I consider this to be significant use of the car. 
This mileage figure far exceeds the average annual mileage when compared  to 
figures provided by official statistics.  I believe the remedy  to Mr Ms complaint should  
reflect this usage.  Especially as Mr M has indicated that he would have taken on 
another finance agreement for a different car anyway. Thus,  hed always have been 
paying for a car.
So subject to any further information  I might  receive  Im minded to say that no 
repayments should be returned  to Mr M on the basis of his usage of the car. This is 
on the basis that he received what he was paying for, and would have paid for use of 
a car one way or another. So I dont see that theres a loss here.
compensation
I do believe that Mr M has been  put to a great deal of trouble by Santander. Given 
that he repeatedly  asked  to terminate the agreement its clear to me that it was 
always his intention to do so and he was denied it, despite realising all along that he 
had been mis-sold the agreement. 
He was misinformed three times.  Once when he was sold the car and the second 
time when  he initially  wanted to terminate  in 2016.  He was misinformed a third time 
even after he provided evidence. Mr M was entitled  to be provided with correct  
information on which he could rely throughout his relationship with Santander, and 
was denied it. 
In its submission to this service Santander said that the evidence had not been 
presented to it when  it had previously investigated  the complaint. I accept that this 
was the case  in May 2016. But in June 2017  Mr M presented the dealers email. 
In its letter  dated  4 July Santander  said:-
We have reviewed the additional evidence you have provided and have 
discussed this with the dealership. They have advised us that they have a 
robust process in place,  to ensure all their customers have a full explanation 
on the sale of all 'in scope' products and any finance.
So I dont  agree with Santander  that it didnt have  the email prior to 2018. It 
considered the evidence  in June/July  2017,  disregarded it and rejected Mr Ms 
complaint. Mr M tenaciously re-presented the email  in 2018 which gave Santander  
the chance to reconsider  its validity. Finally, two years after Mr M raised the issued 
Santander agreed that the finance  agreement had been mis-sold. 
Its not my role to punish the business.  But it is my role to look at the impact of 
Santanders errors on Mr M and the distress and inconvenience this has caused over 
two years.  Looking at the individual circumstances of Mr Ms complaint he has been 
continually mis-informed and then had his evidence disregarded. Its clear  that Mr M 
Ref: DRN06093373wanted to terminate the agreement on three  occasions and get a different car of his 
choice and he was denied this opportunity. Subject to any further evidence or 
comments I might receive Im minded to instruct Santander to give Mr M £1,200 for 
the distress and inconvenience  this situation has caused him. 
Mr M said hes had to take out a second agreement  to get another  car to fit his childs  
baby seat. But Mr M also confirmed to the adjudicator that this second car was for his 
wifes sole use. So I agree with the adjudicator  that this isnt a fair and reasonable 
cost for Santander to pay. 
Subject to any further information from either party my provisional decision was that 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc should pay Mr M £1,200 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision and in summary said that the mileage of the car 
was below what it should have been and that in the provisional decision I had made no 
mention of the repair costs Mr M had paid, to a total of £1,800.
Santander did not respond  to my provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I believe my provisional 
decision still stands.
My provisional decision was sent to Santander  and a copy was sent later at its request. I 
didnt receive a response to either.  
Mr M has asked  me to review  the mileage and how this impacts my decision not to refund 
his monthly payments. He said that my decision doesnt feel fair because he had to use the 
car and wasnt going to pay for something and not use it. He said his monthly  payments 
were higher  in order to be able to drive up to 24,000  per year,  so he was paying  more for the 
car than someone  doing only average  mileage. And so his actual mileage is less that what 
had been expected.
I do understand the point Mr M is making. But hes not disputed or complained  about the 
terms of the agreement he signed,  specifically  relating to how much the payments were  and 
the mileage rules. Im not able to say how the payments  were  originally calculated, nor how 
much the payments wouldve  been  with less mileage. 
But as the actual amount is not in dispute, Im satisfied that Mr M freely entered into the 
agreement to pay this amount  monthly.  This was his choice. Mr M also hasnt said that the 
payment arrangement wouldve  been different for his next car and he did confirm  he would 
likely enter another  agreement. 
So I still consider  that Mr M has had fair use of the car over the period. And Ive already 
considered the inconvenience to him in my proposed remedy  for compensation. 
Mr M has also asked  me to consider the repair  costs he incurred. He said he would not have 
incurred these if Santander had taken the car back  and hed been allowed to terminate the 
agreement when he asked to. These  repairs relate to the replacement  of the clutch and 
Ref: DRN06093374flywheel kit to a total cost of £1,780.75. The car manufacturer  paid for half the costs of the 
repair as a gesture  of goodwill. 
Neither Mr M nor Santander  have provided  evidence that these  repairs  were related to the 
condition of the car at the point of sale. Nor has any evidence been presented that the faults  
were not due to wear  and tear. Mr M has told us he wouldve  entered into a new car finance 
agreement and hasnt  suggested that his driving habits wouldve changed were he allowed 
to terminate the contract sooner and taken a new car finance agreement.  When  driving such 
a high mileage  I would expect things to go wrong  eventually through wear  and tear and I 
expect this to be the case  of any car on any finance  agreement. So I dont think its 
reasonable to ask Santander to refund these costs.  
my final decision
My final decision is, to resolve this complaint, Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should pay 
Mr M £1,200  in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0609337