K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the amount  of arrears fees and charges that were included  when he 
paid off his mortgage balance. He says each charge is excessive, and the overall  amount 
hes been charged is unfair. He says that as a result  he wasnt  left with enough equity to buy 
another property  for himself and his family.
background
Mr B took out his mortgage in 2007,  borrowing just under £100,000 on repayment terms. In 
2015 the mortgage was transferred  to a new lender, which appointed Pepper to manage  the 
account on its behalf. Although Peppers not the lender,  Pepper  is the company  Mr B has 
dealt with in recent years,  and has made decisions on behalf of the lender in managing the 
account.
When Mr B asked  for a redemption statement in 2019, Pepper sent him a redemption  figure 
of £83,500. The main balance was £71,000.  There was a balance of arrears, fees, charges 
and additional  interest of £11,800. The rest of the redemption figure  was exit and legal fees.
Mr B complained. He didnt think it was fair that he had to pay £11,800 in addition to the 
mortgage balance.  Pepper didnt uphold the complaint. It said the mortgage  had been  in 
arrears for much of the term. The £11,800  was made up of additional interest, arrears fees 
and charges. It was fair to ask Mr B to pay that amount as well. 
Our investigator reviewed  all the fees charged and said that some  fees charged  between 
2009 and 2012 should be refunded. Mr B accepted that, but Pepper didnt. It said that those 
fees were charged  more  than six years ago and so shouldnt be considered  and it didnt 
think they were unfair in any case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pepper objected  to the investigators view on the basis that the fees she said should be 
refunded were charged more than six years  ago. Our rules say we cant  consider complaints  
about things that happened more than six years before the complaint, or more than three 
years from when the complainant knew (or ought  reasonably to have known) of a cause for 
complaint  unless  there are exceptional circumstances. 
However, we can consider a complaint made  out of time where the firm complained about 
consents. 
On 20 April 2020, the investigator emailed Pepper  to make what  the complaint was about. 
She said:
You have explained  youre not sure why the 6 and 3 years time limit would be 
considered for this complaint.  As the redemption figure is a total of the arrears  and 
fees accrued through the years of opening  the account until closure, its important I 
review the charges applied. Therefore I would like to ask if you consent to this as the 
mortgage arrears do go back to 2007.
Ref: DRN02871402Pepper replied  the same  day to say:
Im happy to consent and send you a transaction history from 2007 whereby you will 
be able to determine the missed payments and subsequent charges made for the 
arrears over the years.
In my view, this is unequivocal consent for us to look at all charges applied  from 2007 
onwards. Our rules say that consent, once given,  cannot be withdrawn.  This means  that 
Pepper is not now entitled to object to us looking at the fairness of fees that were  charged 
more than six years ago and are out of time. 
I will therefore consider  the whole history  of this mortgage as part of this decision. In doing  
so I note that Pepper isnt the lender, its the administrator managing the loan on behalf of 
the lender, which  itself isnt the original  lender.  But Pepper has accepted responsibility on 
behalf of the lender and so I will consider the whole  history   referring, for ease, to Pepper 
throughout.
A mortgage lender has an obligation  to act fairly  and in line with the rules  of mortgage 
regulation - as well as with the terms and conditions  of the mortgage itself. That means I 
need to consider not only whether the charges applied to Mr Bs mortgage  were applied in 
line with the terms  and conditions. I also need  to consider whether it was fair in all the 
circumstances to charge  them.
In general, I think it was. Mr B has been in financial difficulty, on and off, for many years. 
Where thats the case, the lender  or administrator on its behalf  has to do additional  work.  
This might include trying  to contact Mr B, find out more  about his circumstances and see 
what can be done to get things back on track. Its not unreasonable to charge for this extra 
work in months  where he missed a payment.  And where a direct debit cant  be collected,  
theres an administrative cost to this, which its fair for the lender to pass on.
However, on occasions in 2009, a charge was applied when Mr B spoke to the lender, told 
them about  issues he was facing, and an arrangement was agreed.  I dont think  it was fair to 
charge fees on those  occasions. Pepper  should therefore refund arrears  charges between 
October 2009 and June  2010. After that, the arrangement  broke down, so I think it was fair 
to resume charging arrears fees. Our investigator  suggested a direct debit fee be refunded in 
2012, but in that month no payment was made and the direct debit failed.
Im satisfied that later fees and charges were fair and reasonable. Only a small number  of 
arrears fees were charged, particularly after 2015,  despite Mr B missing many payments in 
that period. I can see from Peppers notes that it made many  attempts to contact Mr B and 
discuss the arrears with him. Solicitors were instructed as the arrears  increased, and I think 
this was reasonable as Mr B wasnt making payment or paying  anything towards the arrears. 
Their fees were also added to the loan balance.
Separately, Pepper arranged insurance  for the property, to protect  the lenders security.  Ive 
seen in the notes that it explained  to Mr B several  times  that it was doing so. It explained that 
if Mr B could  show he had insured the property himself, it would refund those charges   but it 
seems Mr B didnt have buildings insurance  in place. Im therefore satisfied those fees were  
fair.
Ref: DRN02871403my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Pepper  
(UK) Limited trading as Engage Credit to:
Refund the arrears  fees charged  between  October 2009  and June  2010;
Add mortgage interest at the rate from time to time until the mortgage  was redeemed, 
and thereafter  simple annual interest  of 8%*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 December  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* If Pepper considers  it should deduct income  tax from the 8% interest element  of my award it may do 
so, but should give Mr B the necessary documentation, if he asks for it, so that he can reclaim  the tax 
from HMRC  if hes entitled to do so.
Ref: DRN0287140