K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Vauxhall Finance Plc (GMAC)  misrepresented the terms of a finance  
agreement by making her a co-applicant  without  her knowledge. She doesnt  think  she 
should be made liable for payments now the agreement is in arrears.
background
Although the agreement  in this complaint is in the joint names of Mrs D and Mr D, this 
complaint only refers to an issue raised by Mrs D. So Ill mostly refer to her.
Mrs D tells us that her son, who Ill refer to as D, wanted to purchase a vehicle from a 
dealer Ill refer to as B. But he was unable to obtain credit  due to his credit  score.  She says 
she was asked if shed  be willing to allow her credit score to be used so as to improve the 
prospect of D obtaining credit. And she said she signed the application believing  this is what 
had been agreed. Some two years later Mrs D says she started  getting  letters  about missed  
payments and learned that shed been made  a co-applicant, or joint customer, for the loan. 
She says the nature  of the agreement wasnt explained to her and she wasnt  told shed be 
liable for payments if D failed to make  them.  She wants GMAC to remove her liability to 
make these payments.
GMAC said its representative  had gone  through the Standard European Consumer Credit 
Information document (SECCI).  And this included  all the key aspects of the agreement. And 
it said Mrs D had supplied her driving  licence and three months bank statements with the 
application in order to obtain  the credit agreement. It didnt accept that the agreement  had 
been mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said that Mrs D 
had suggested  she thought she was agreeing  to a guarantor arrangement. And he found 
that this would have left Mrs D in the same position  as she now found herself. He thought 
there was enough  indication  that Mrs D knew she would  have  some  financial liability if her 
son stopped paying.
Mrs D didnt agree with this outcome. She said she felt shed been  taken advantage of and 
the nature  of the agreement hadnt  been explained  to her. As its not been  possible to 
resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been  asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Ds concern at finding out shes liable for the payments on this 
agreement that havent been  met by her son. And I appreciate that this has been a difficult  
time. Im aware that Mrs D herself experiences poor health and that D has also experienced 
health issues - which  has caused Mrs D further  concern.
Ref: DRN01286062Mrs Ds conditional sale agreement is a regulated  consumer credit  agreement and our 
service is able to consider  complaints  relating to it. And whilst I dont apply the law - directly - 
I do take it into account. Relevant  law here includes the Consumer Credit Act of 1974 (CCA). 
Of particular relevance to the circumstances of this complaint is section 56 CCA.  
Summarised, this makes the provider  of finance equally liable for any misrepresentation  by 
the dealer/credit  broker (B) in relation to the agreement.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a customer to enter an 
agreement and as a result of the misrepresentation to suffer  a loss. Here the alleged  
misrepresentation relates to Mrs D being included on the finance agreement as a joint 
customer.
Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some of it is here - Im required 
to make my decision on the balance  of probabilities. That is I have to decide the most likely 
explanation to account for whats happened. And in doing so I look to documentary evidence 
as well as what the parties tell us.
Theres clearly  a major dispute  of fact as Mrs D explains  that she was led to believe that - in 
providing her personal details and supporting credit information - she was doing  no more  
than help boost  her sons credit rating so as to enable his application to proceed.  She initially  
told us she thought she was being asked to be guarantor although she didnt fully 
understand what this meant. And she says that during the discussions prior to the 
agreement being  signed, the conversation  almost  exclusively  involved her son and not her.
Ive no recording of the discussions but I have  seen a copy  of the agreement which  was 
signed after they had concluded. And this identifies  Mrs D as a Joint Customer.
I accept that finance  agreements  can be difficult to understand. And that many of us would 
find it tedious to read through  all the terms and conditions before  signing. Particularly so if it 
was thought the contents were already known. I also acknowledge that Mrs D wanted to 
assist her son and this also mightve  contributed  to her not reading the paperwork as closely 
as would otherwise  have  been the case.
But even if a consumer  doesnt read an agreement - or doesnt fully understand it - before 
signing, that doesnt mean a business  cant apply the terms of the agreement.  Id expect a 
consumer to enquire further about  issues over which they had any doubts. It would render 
business almost impossible to conduct if the terms of a signed agreement could 
subsequently be set aside simply by one party asserting they hadnt read or understood it.
Here, Mrs Ds signature appears on the copy of the agreement along with that of her son. 
And the format of the agreement which she signed  shows clearly that she is a Joint 
Customer. Taken together with Mrs Ds initial explanation - that she thought she was acting 
as a guarantor  - leads  me think she knew - or ought reasonably  to have known - she might 
incur a financial liability. And in practical terms shes in much the same position  with regard 
to liability if shed been the guarantor  as opposed  to a joint customer.
And whilst Ive reached my decision  independently of our adjudicator,  I agree with his 
comment, expressed in his view, that theres  some responsibility on the consumer to be 
aware of the implications  of using their credit  to support applications by others.
Ref: DRN01286063I note that Mrs D also says that only a personal contract purchase plan in the form of a 
conditional sale agreement was offered. I can only repeat my earlier comment that its up to 
the consumer  to ask about anything they dont  fully understand or if they wish to look at 
alternative means of finance. 
In summary,  Im not without sympathy  for the position in which Mrs D now finds  herself. 
Whilst I dont think  there  was a misrepresentation, I think its probable that things might have 
been explained more clearly. And its not satisfactory that the parties to a discussion leave it 
with a different  understanding  of what was agreed.
But that alone is not sufficient for me to say that it would be fair and reasonable to find that 
GMAC was wrong to try and seek repayments from her. The signed agreement  showed 
Mrs D was a joint customer and on this basis it provided the finance for the acquisition of the 
vehicle. So its now entitled to enforce the terms of the agreement.
So whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mrs D Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0128606