K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that RAC Insurance Limited unfairly rejected a claim he made under 
the Garage,  Parts  and Labour  (GPL) section of his Breakdown Cover  policy.
All references to RAC in my decision include  its agents.
background
Mr Cs policy  with RAC says in the event of an approved GPL claim, it will pay up to £750  
toward the costs  of repairs  following  a breakdown. Mr C said RAC authorised repairs  to his 
car when  he made a claim. But when the repairs were completed, RAC  said Mr C hadnt 
followed the correct  process. As the garage contacted RAC after it had completed the works, 
RAC said it wouldnt meet the claim. 
Our investigator thought RAC had acted reasonably in deciding not to meet Mr Cs claim. 
Hed listened to call recordings  provided  by RAC and on four occasions it had told Mr C it 
would need to authorise repairs  with the garage  before works were completed.  
Mr C didnt agree. He provided a log of all of the calls he made to RAC.  He said RAC hadnt 
provided us with details of all of the calls he made.  He said RAC told him during one of the 
calls that it authorised the repairs.  Mr C said RAC hadnt paid for one hours diagnostics as 
set out under the policy.
Our investigator sent a copy of the list of calls to RAC. RAC said it had already provided 
Mr C with all of the recordings  it had when he made  a Subject Access Request.  
The investigator thought RAC should pay for the first hours diagnostics as set out under the 
policy. But he remained  of the view that RAC  had fairly rejected his claim.
Mr C didnt agree. He said hes provided evidence of calls. He doesnt feel weve  been fair in 
our assessment. 
RAC didnt  agree. It said Mr C hasnt  made  a request to RAC for reimbursement of a 
diagnostics fee. It said Mr C shouldnt  have paid the diagnostic  fee to the garage  and as this 
is a new issue, it should be given the opportunity to investigate it. Having said that, RAC said 
the policy allows the first hour of diagnostics to be covered. 
The investigator asked  Mr C to contact RAC directly to deal with his request for 
reimbursement of the first hours  diagnostics fee.
Mr C would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
Mr C broke  down at night on 17 August 2018. On 22 August 2018 Mr C sent details of his 
cars service history  to RAC as required. The approved repairer was unable  to diagnose the 
root cause of the fault and so Mr Cs car was moved  to a dealership garage. 
Ref: DRN09012522On 28 August 2018 Mr C called RAC  and said he wanted to move  his car to third garage. 
Hed received a quote from the dealership garage but the dealership garage said it couldnt 
diagnose the root cause and its initial estimate for diagnostics and repairs came to £1,500.  
They advised there be more damage  and further  costs. Mr C asked if he could take his car 
to another garage that wasnt  approved by RAC  as it was cheaper.
RAC told Mr C that was fine but that the third garage  must call RAC before any repairs are 
done. This message was repeated a number of times during the call which took place  on 
28 August 2018.
Mr C says there were more calls between him and RAC during his claim and I agree. His call 
log shows this. However,  his call log shows one of three calls on 28 August 2018 for 
10 minutes  which corresponds with RACs notes. (the other two calls are for three seconds 
each.)
There are no further calls to RAC  until 12 September  2018  when  Mr C called to discuss  its 
decision not to meet the claim. RACs notes support Mr Cs call log on this day. On 
12 September 2018 RAC received a call from the dealership  garage  to confirm they had 
completed the repairs. RAC rejected  the claim as it hadnt authorised the repairs.  It said the 
last contact it had was on 28 August 2018 with Mr C. 
So if there was a call between Mr C and RAC  where it agreed to authorise repairs, this 
would have happened between 28 August 2018  and 12 September  2018. But I havent seen 
any evidence to show this. And in the call recordings provided, RAC  consistently said the 
garage would need to discuss  the claim with it before  any repairs were  carried  out. Until 
then, the claim hadnt been approved. It seems the garage carried out the repairs on the 
authorisation of Mr C. 
Mr Cs policy  says:
If we attend  a breakdown under Sections A (Roadside) or B (At Home) and we 
cannot permanently  fix your vehicle at the roadside we will recover you to, or enable 
you to drive the vehicle  to, an approved  garage  where, once authorised:
1. We will cover the cost of:
a. one hours labour to help diagnose the fault
up to the maximum claim limit set out in the
schedule or up to the market value of vehicle
whichever is less;
b. the covered parts; and
c. labour charges to replace the covered part;
In the calls provided, I think RAC made  it clear  that the garage(s) would need to discuss  
repairs with RAC for authorisation  before  works could go ahead. The reason for this is for 
RAC to decide if the parts required are covered under the policy. Unfortunately two garages 
 including  a dealership  garage  struggled  to trace the fault. However, RAC told Mr C it 
would only cover the costs of up to one hours  diagnostics and repairs up to the policy limit of 
£750. 
I understand Mr C will be disappointed  with my decision. But based on the information 
provided by both parties, I think RAC  has acted reasonably and in line with the policy.  This 
means I dont think it should  meet Mr Cs claim. 
Ref: DRN09012523He can contact RAC directly to consider his request for reimbursement of any diagnostic  fee 
hes paid for. If hes unhappy with the way RAC deals with his request, he can raise  a new 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0901252