K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about how Bank  of Scotland PLC trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM)  
handled his request for reimbursement regarding the refund of calls and letters. 
background
Mr M had a mortgage with BM. That mortgage fell into arrears and BM applied  charges. On 
13 March 2018  BM wrote to Mr M and told him that some of those fees had inappropriately 
been charged. It was therefore  going  to refund those fees. Mr M responded to this letter  by 
sending a letter on 20 August 2018,  confirming receipt of the refunded fees and asking 
about compensation for dealing with the inappropriately charged fees.
BM then sent Mr M a letter stating that it needed  to speak  with him to discuss his request. 
This letter was sent on 29 August 2018. Mr M then made a call on 10 September 2018. 
Unfortunately the person he spoke to wasnt able to access the information that Mr M had 
requested. Mr M then made a complaint. He then received  a couple of calls from BM and a 
letter was sent on 4 October, but Mr M says he didnt receive it.
Mr M therefore wrote to BM on 15 October. BM wrote back enclosing  its previous response. 
In that response  it explained that at the time of the fees being charged,  the fees were in line 
with the terms and conditions and were  charged as a result of there being missed,  late or 
unpaid payments, or there  being  collections activity on Mr Ms mortgage. 
BM had read through the collections notes  back to 2004 and could see Mr M had been  in 
contact with it on numerous occasions.  From  the notes it did seem  that there was usually a 
reason for the call, such  as updating BM on Mr Ms employment situation  and coming to an 
arrangement for payment  of his outstanding arrears. Although it didnt accept  liability  it made 
a payment of £30 into one of Mr Ms accounts in its group.
Mr M responded to ask why BM hadnt replied  to his complaint with details of its complaint 
handling process as it was required  to do within five days. He also raised  questions  about 
the appropriateness of making a payment into an account which  wasnt  linked to his 
mortgage.
BM responded to Mr Ms letter more  than a month later. It apologised for the delay and paid 
him £50. It explained it was its policy to make a payment into an open bank account in its 
group and that details of its complaints process  were sent with its letter on 4 October  2018.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He agreed that errors had been 
made in the way the complaint was handled but felt the compensation paid was fair. He also 
thought BM wasnt  wrong  to make a payment into one of Mr Ms accounts in the same 
group.
Mr M has asked  for an ombudsmans decision. As well as the comments hed previously 
made hes asked me to consider that:
the 13 March  letter  asked him to call a number which would  put him through  to an 
adviser who didnt  have access to the necessary system  to respond to his request for 
further information; 
its misleading and fictitious  that BM cant determine what  was said on some calls;
the account which received the payment of compensation wasnt  linked to his mortgage 
account.
Ref: DRN03786912my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMs letter of 13 March  2018 notified  Mr M that it was refunding  inappropriate arrears  
management fees. But it went on to say:
You could be entitled to claim for any additional costs you may have incurred. Call 
[number]
I can appreciate Mr Ms frustration with BM here, in particular with being put through to an 
adviser who couldnt access the system necessary to respond  to his request for further  
information. BM didnt  handle his request for further information well nor did it handle  his 
subsequent complaint well. I am, however, satisfied that it has paid him a fair amount of 
compensation for its poor handling.
Mr M hasnt  demonstrated any financial loss such as call charges or postage relating 
specifically to the complaint about  arrears  fees.  BM says there  was usually a reason for his 
calls, and from the notes I cant see that thats  wrong. 
I dont think BM was wrong to pay compensation into an account  Mr M held with another  
member of the same group. Under  the terms and conditions  of the account he consented to 
sharing information  on this account  within the group.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0378691