K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
In 1997 Mr L took out a loan during a meeting at a Lloyds  branch, along with a PPI policy  to 
protect the loan monthly repayments.  He borrowed extra and paid upfront for the PPI. So the 
cost of the policy was added  to the loan and interest  charged.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr L disagrees.
Mr Ls main complaint is that he already  had enough  cover  if anything happened to him and 
hed been put under pressure to agree  to take out PPI in order to get the loan he wanted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain  why.
I dont know exactly what was discussed when Mr L arranged his loan. Ive taken carefully 
into account what Mr L has told us. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect him to recall 
exactly what was said at the time. This means that what  Mr L says isnt enough on its own 
for me to be able to uphold his complaint.
I must look at all the available information  and take into account the wider circumstances 
and decide what  I think is most likely. 
Ive seen an example  of the sort of credit agreement  Mr L wouldve had to sign to get his 
loan. Theres a section  on the form headed  OPTIONAL LOAN REPAYMENT 
PROTECTION and there are YES  and NO tick boxes. The NO box is clearly shown on 
the form and Mr L couldve marked this box if he hadnt wanted PPI.  
In my view, the wording  and layout of the agreement highlights  the fact that PPI was a 
matter of choice. So I think  that when Mr L indicated  on the form he wanted  to have PPI he 
would've been able to see that it was up to him to say if he wanted it. On balance,  I find that 
PPI was added to his loan at his request. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr L. If a business  makes a recommendation about PPI, it 
doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Mr L sent us some information  about his employment benefits. But it looks  as if that relates 
to a time when he was working for a different employer  not the one that Lloyds records  
show he was working for when he took out this loan.  
Ref: DRN00490352And it wouldnt make any overall  difference to my decision on whether  he was mis-sold  this 
PPI  because  the PPI wouldve paid sick pay for longer in any event. And the other 
employee benefits hes mentioned provided different benefits to PPI and paid out in different 
circumstances. 
If hed made  a successful  accident or sickness claim, the policy  wouldve paid out for as long 
as he was off work  so it couldve cleared the loan if he wasnt  ever well enough to go back 
to work. 
And the policy wouldve also covered the loan monthly repayments for up to 12 months  per 
claim if Mr L lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Being entitled to a redundancy payment wouldnt have helped Mr L if he was off work sick. 
And Mr L doesnt appear to have had any significant other means he couldve used to cover  
the loan monthly  repayments for very long if he wasnt working. I cant assume he wouldve 
always had savings to rely on  and the policy provided cover for longer than the amount of 
savings he mentioned wouldve lasted if hed had to rely on these to cover his monthly  
outgoings. So I cant reasonably say that Mr L didnt need PPI or that Lloyds 
recommendation wasnt suitable.  
It doesnt look as if there were any significant policy terms or exclusions that wouldve 
affected Mr L being able to make  a claim. So even if hed been given more  information about 
the policy details,  I dont think this wouldve made any difference to his decision to take out 
the cover. 
Its unlikely that Lloyds explained  when  Mr L bought  the cover that he wouldnt get a 
proportionate refund on the PPI if he paid the loan off early.  But theres no indication  he was 
likely to do this when  he took it out. So I dont  think that wouldve affected his decision to buy 
the PPI. 
Mr L wouldve seen on the loan agreement what the PPI premium would cost and what  the 
total loan would be  even  if hes forgotten this now. And the policy seems to have  been  
affordable. I agree that it mightnt have been clear how much interest hed pay. But I dont 
believe the amount  wouldve been enough to put Mr L off taking out the PPI. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But, 
given his circumstances and the benefits the PPI offered him, I think Mr L still wouldve 
decided to buy the policy if hed been  better  informed as the policy gave him useful 
protection in his particular situation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0049035