K821x#15complaint
In summary,  Mr K has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) provided him with a 
loan when he wasnt able to afford  it. 
background
In May 2014, ELL gave Mr K a loan for £3,500  repayable over 18 months.  It had an interest  
rate of 44.8% APR.  The total charge for the credit was £1,132.44, which meant the total 
amount repayable by Mr K for the £3,500 he was borrowing, was £4,632.44. The monthly 
repayments were £257.36.  Mr Ks net salary was recorded as approximately £1,300  a 
month. 
In its response to Mr Ks complaint, ELL said the loan was taken out to purchase a car. It 
explained that his credit file only showed  one other creditor. Based  on the information Mr K 
had provided, it thought  the loan was affordable.  It went on to say it would have carried out 
affordability checks when  the loan was approved. It thought it most likely the information on 
its system was correct at the time the loan was taken out. 
Mr Ks concerns were  investigated by one of our adjudicators. She explained that she 
thought ELL should have verified the information provided by Mr K about his income and 
expenses. And she said it could have asked for his bank statements  or other  documents to 
do this. So, she didnt  think  the checks were proportionate. 
She went on to say that as she hadnt  heard back from Mr K regarding her request  for bank 
statements, she hadnt been able to assess what better checks  would  have shown, or for her 
to say it was wrong  of ELL to have lent to Mr K. Mr K didnt  agree  so, the case  has been 
passed to me for review.
My provisional decision setting out the reasons why I intended to uphold Mr Ks complaint, 
was sent to the parties on 29 March 2021.  Mr K and ELL didnt provide me with any further 
arguments or evidence  to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither ELL or Mr K have provided me with any further arguments or evidence  to 
consider, I see no reason  to change my opinion of this case which I set out in my provisional 
decision. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ks complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if ELL treated Mr K fairly 
and reasonably when it provided  him with the loan.
Ref: DRN040359021)Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr K 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
2)If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown  at the time? 
3)Ultimately,  did ELL make a fair lending decision?  
4)Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr K would be 
able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules  that ELL had to follow, required it to carry out checks  that would enable  it to 
reasonably assess,  whether Mr K could afford  to repay the loan he was wanting  to take out. 
This is often  referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules  dont set out what  specific checks it needed to carry out, but it did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think  what  
this meant  in practice, was that the scope and extent of ELLs checks needed to reflect the 
nature of the loan, bearing  in mind things such as the amount of credit,  the interest rate, the 
duration of the loan,  the monthly  and total amounts repayable, and any indications  of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks  ELL needed to carry as part of its affordability assessment, needed to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the loan back would cause  Mr K any difficulties or have  any adverse consequences 
for him. It would also need to take into account factors  such as the amount of money being 
lent, the term of the loan and the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the 
interest rate being charged. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And as a result of the above, I think a reasonable and proportionate check  needed  to be 
more thorough if Mr K had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for 
him to make  the loan repayments with a low income.  
It would also need to be more thorough the higher  the amounts he had to repay, as it would 
be more difficult to make higher loan repayments  on a given income. 
The length  of the loan term would  also be relevant,  partly because  where  the loan duration is 
longer, the total cost of credit was likely to be higher. It would also be relevant because there 
is greater risk of a negative change in circumstances  affecting Mr Ks ability  to repay, where 
repayments need to be sustained over a longer period. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about  whether ELL completed  reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr K would  be able to repay his loan in a 
sustainable way.
In summary  then, the circumstances of this loan application are as follows:
Mr K was applying for a loan which had an APR of 44.8%.
Mr K was recorded by ELL as having a monthly income of approximately £1,300.  
The monthly repayments would constitute  approximately 20% of Mr Ks monthly income.
The total cost of the loan was very high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
what Mr K borrowed. 
Mr K had taken out a similar sized loan a few months prior to taking out this loan. 
Ref: DRN04035903Individually and taken  together,  I think there  are several flags here which I believe should 
have caused ELL to question whether it should have provided Mr K with further credit. So, I 
think it was important for ELL to have conducted  checks which gave it a thorough 
understanding of Mr Ks financial  position and to scrutinise the information it gathered 
carefully, asking follow-up questions where  necessary, before agreeing  to lend.
ELL has said that based on the information Mr K had provided, it thought the loan was 
affordable. I am somewhat surprised  and concerned by the lack of due diligence  on the part 
of ELL in this case. It appears  to have accepted what Mr K told it about  it about his income 
and expenditure,  at face value. 
Mr K has told us that he provided  incorrect information about  his income. Im not making any 
finding as to whether or not this was the case. But the CONC  rules under which  ELL 
operated at this time do anticipate that borrowers may not always  provide accurate 
information. These rules  require lenders  to take proportionate steps  to establish whether a 
loan applicant can afford the loan  including, in most  circumstances  taking steps  to verify 
customer declarations  about  income and expenditure.
Given Mr Ks relatively low income, it seems  logical to me, that reasonable and proportionate 
checks should have  included verifying his income and expenditure. And I dont understand 
why ELL didnt do that in this case,  taking into account the circumstances of this loan 
application that Ive summarised  above. 
One of the difficulties given the length  of time since the loan was taken out, is understanding 
what reasonable and proportionate  checks might have shown, if ELL had carried them out. 
Our adjudicator asked  Mr K for copies of his bank  statements and details of his income  and 
expenses. He said he wasnt able to get the information. And the adjudicator said as I 
summarised above, she hadnt been able to assess what better checks would have shown 
or for her to say it was wrong of ELL to have lent to Mr K.
Its potentially problematic to assess detriment  in this case, as ELL hasnt carried out the 
appropriate borrower focussed checks,  that the circumstances of the loan application 
suggest should have been  carried out. And its also difficult  as Mr K hasnt been able to 
provide information  to evidence his financial circumstances at the time the loan was taken 
out. But that doesnt necessarily mean  that Mr K hasnt suffered detriment, or that Im not 
able to make  a determination on whether the loan was sustainably  affordable  for him.
I say this because  this loan was taken  out nearly seven years ago. And I dont think  given 
the length of time that has elapsed  since then, that its necessarily surprising or 
unreasonable that Mr K hasnt been able to provide our service with the information  our 
adjudicator asked him for. And the reality  is, that if ELL had carried  out the reasonable and 
proportionate borrower focussed checks that it should have done when the affordability  of 
the loan was being assessed, then Mr K wouldnt  need to be asked to provide that 
information now. 
Notwithstanding the paucity of information  collated  by ELL in this case,  there is some 
information for me to consider. ELL has referred to a credit report  that it obtained at the time 
of the application. This shows that in February  2014,  Mr K took out a loan for £4,000 over 24 
months. The monthly repayments appear  to have  been £247. 
Ref: DRN04035904ELL should have  been  aware therefore that the current loan repayments Mr K was making, 
combined with the monthly payments for the loan he was intending to take out with ELL; 
would mean  that approximately 39% (£504 a month) of his declared net monthly income, 
would go towards  loan repayments.  And in addition to these repayments, according to the 
disposable income calculation carried out by ELL, his general living  expenses  were £650 a 
month. And this is without  any allowance having been made for rent or a mortgage. 
So, based  on the information  ELL did have about  Mr K, Im not satisfied that it could 
reasonably conclude that Mr K would be able to sustainably  afford  to make the monthly  
payments for this loan. And Im further persuaded that this was more  likely than not to have 
been the case by the history of the loan account. I say this because I think  its significant in 
this case, that Mr K didnt make any payments in respect of the loan. This strongly  suggests  
to me that there were  affordability issues in respect of this loan, right from the very outset.
For the reasons  Ive outlined above, I think that in the particular circumstances of Mr Ks 
case, ELL should  have realised it was unlikely  he would have been able to repay  his loan, 
and that it wasnt  appropriate to lend to him. 
Putting things  right 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr K to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest  and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt  have been provided to him. So, I think Mr K has lost out and ELL should put 
things right for him. ELL should: 
a)Remove all interest, fees and charges  applied  to the loan from the outset. Any 
payments made by Mr K should then be deducted  from the new starting  balance.  If 
the payments  Mr K has made  total more than the amount he was originally  lent, then 
any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on any overpayments  made,  from the date they were paid by 
Mr K, to the date the complaint is settled. 
b)If there  is still an outstanding balance then ELL should agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr K, bearing  in mind the need  to treat him positively and 
sympathetically in those discussions and taking into account his current  ability to 
repay the loan.
c)Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ks credit  file as a result of this 
loan. *HM Revenue  & Customs requires  ELL to deduct tax from this interest.  ELL 
should give Mr K a certificate  showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is to uphold Mr Ks complaint and to direct  
Everyday Lending  Limited to put things right as set out in the putting  things  right section 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2021.
Ref: DRN04035905Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0403590