K820x#14complaint
Ms Bs unhappy Santander UK Plc (Santander) is pursuing her for an outstanding  debt on 
a mortgage. She says she shouldve been removed from the mortgage account and property 
deeds following  a court hearing in 2012 and she shouldnt be liable for the debt. Shes also 
unhappy Santander didnt do more to contact her to let her know  about  the recovery action.
background
In 2006, Ms B and her ex-partner (Ill call him Mr F) purchased a property and took out a 
mortgage in joint names  with Santander. The mortgage was for around  £124,000 over 30 
years on an interest only basis. 
Ms B says in 2009, she fled the property she owned  with Mr F as she was the victim of 
domestic abuse. Shes said there  were  two relevant court hearings. The first related to family 
matters  but she says during this, the judge indicated Mr F should take full responsibility for 
the property and outstanding mortgage. There was a second hearing  in 2012 which Ms Bs 
explained she wasnt able to attend  but she was told by her solicitors  that the court had 
decided she could be taken off the mortgage  and property deeds   and Mr F should  take full 
responsibility of the property and the borrowing. 
Ms Bs said whilst the court transcript from 2012  should confirm what shes  said, it will cost 
her a significant amount to obtain  it. Santander  has given us a copy  of a court  order from a 
repossession hearing in 2012. This shows a warrant for possession  was granted  in June 
2012. Then in September 2012, it was suspended upon payment of the mortgage 
instalments and towards the arrears.
As arrears started to build up on the mortgage  again, an order for possession of the property 
for the outstanding arrears of around £129,000 was issued in September 2016. And shortly  
after, a warrant for possession was granted to Santander. 
Between 2012 and 2017, Ms B says she received  no correspondence  from Santander  about  
the mortgage or action to recover the arrears. In 2017, she received a council tax bill which 
alerted her that her name was still on the property  deeds and mortgage. So she contacted 
Santander. It was after this point she says she found  out about  the possession  proceedings 
and recovery action  Santander was taking. 
In December 2017, Ms Bs solicitor wrote  to Santander asking it to halt the sale of the 
property to recover the amount owing or remove Ms B as a party  to the mortgage  as she 
said this was the intention of the court in 2012.  In this letter, she said Santander had a duty 
to contact her about the actions to recover debts  and it hadnt been  in touch with her since 
2012. She said Santander couldve  easily searched for her  and it had her correct address 
to contact her at. 
In March 2018, Santander wrote  to Ms B to let her know the property had been sold.  And 
there was a shortfall of around  £78,000.  Ms B has continued to be pursued for the debt. 
Ref: DRN03010932Santanders said it never had Ms Bs updated  address so it continued to write to her at the 
property address. It said Ms B remains jointly and severally liable for the outstanding debt as 
the correct process  wasnt followed to remove  her from the mortgage.  Ms Bs given  us her 
handwritten notes to evidence  conversations she had with Santander  around  the time she 
left the property. She says Santander was made  aware of her change  of address and shed 
contacted it about removing  herself  from the mortgage.
Ms B complains  Santander has allowed Mr F to abuse her financially and this situation has 
had a big impact on several  aspects  of her life. 
Unhappy with Santanders response, Ms B asked us to look into things. Our investigator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. She couldnt say whether an application was made to release 
Ms B from the debt following events in 2012, but at the time of the repossession,  both parties  
were liable as the mortgage was still in their joint names. She couldnt see evidence  that 
Ms B changed her address with Santander.  And in any event, she didnt think  Ms B wouldve 
done anything  differently  if Santander  had updated her address and contacted her about  the 
property between 2012 and 2017.  As Ms B didnt agree with our investigators findings, the 
complaints been  passed to me to reach a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also thought  about  everything Ms Bs 
explained to us about the impact this situation  has had on her life  and I can see this has 
been extremely difficult for a number  of years. And Im very grateful to her for taking the time 
to explain this situation and going over events which must be distressing for her. While  I 
sympathise with Ms Bs position,  Ive had to carefully consider whether Santander has acted 
unfairly and unreasonably  in all the circumstances. Ive reached the conclusion  that I dont 
think Santander has acted  unreasonably. I know that will come as a disappointment to Ms B 
 Ill explain why.
Ms B initially took out the mortgage with Santander on a joint basis with Mr F. This meant 
they were both jointly and severally liable for the debt. I understand and empathise with her 
situation that meant she had to flee the property but at that point, she remained jointly  liable 
for the debt.
Ms B says the court  indicated in 2012  that she should be removed from the mortgage  and 
deeds. But unfortunately Ms B hasnt been able to provide a copy of a court  order  that 
confirms this. In fact the copy  of the court order, also from 2012,  that Santander has shared 
with us doesnt indicate what shes said. Its not clear to me whether  this is the very same 
court action Ms B is referring to in 2012 or another action between her and Mr F that didnt 
involve Santander.  
In any event, even  if the court had indicated  that Mr B be removed from the mortgage, Ms B 
and Mr F wouldve needed to make an application to change the borrower  to Santander, pay 
an administration fee, and use a solicitor to make sure the legal  charge  on the property was 
transferred over. And the application would be subject to its lending criteria. 
Ref: DRN03010933From everything Ive seen  in this case, I think its more likely Ms B was made aware of the 
steps that needed to be taken to release her from the mortgage. Shes  given us handwritten  
notes that she made in 2010 during a call with Santander. These say shed need to pay 
£140 as an admin  fee to take the name off, and that Mr F would  need  to ask for it. It also 
says, If they deem him untenable then they wont take me off.
The information Ms B seems to have got over the phone  from Santander  reflects the process  
it says she wouldve needed  to go through to be removed from the mortgage. And I havent  
seen enough in this case to persuade me its more likely Ms B thought   or checked  the 
application had been made or paid for. I appreciate shes said she was told by her solicitor 
following the court hearing in 2012 that shed be removed from the mortgage. But that 
doesnt mean Santanders done anything wrong in not removing her. I cant see that an 
application to remove Ms B from the mortgage  was made to Santander at any time. In any 
event, from what Ive seen, I cant say its likely Santander wouldve approved a transfer of 
equity application  by Mr F considering the outstanding arrears on the mortgage at the time 
and the repayment history. So even if the application had been  made,  Im not satisfied Ms B 
wouldve been in a different position.
Ms B says Santander  shouldve let her know  about the ongoing proceedings by contacting 
her at her own address. Shes  said its breached her human rights  specifically  her right to a 
fair trial. I fully appreciate  Ms B finding  out about  the recovery action Santander was taking 
when she did mustve  been a shock to her. And I can understand  why she feels  it shouldve 
done more in the circumstances  to inform her of what  was happening. But I cant  agree its 
acted unreasonably in this case.
In 2010, I can see Ms Bs notes say she contacted Santander to update her address details. 
Santanders given  us an internal screenshot showing the changes of address registered for 
Ms B  and this seems to correspond with her handwritten notes from 2010. But the address  
shown on the system  is different from the address Ms Bs given us now. And I can see this 
was only changed  on her other accounts  and not her mortgage  account. Santanders said 
Ms B has more than one profile and different  accounts. And it doesnt  have  any record of 
being notified of Ms Bs change of address under  her mortgage profile. 
Ms Bs sent us a copy of a letter  sent by Santanders litigation team in 2012. I can see this 
letter was addressed to Ms Bs correct and current address. So she thinks Santander was 
aware of her address and shouldve  used  it to contact her when it started repossession  
proceedings. Ive thought very carefully about what Ms Bs said about this. But I can see 
Santander attempted to contact her on the number it had for her to confirm her correct  
address  and didnt  get a response. I havent seen anything to suggest Ms B did update her 
address on her mortgage account to her correct address  and as shed changed her 
address previously, I think its more likely she understood  how to. In any event, I dont think  it 
wouldve been appropriate for Santander to change Ms Bs address on her mortgage 
account without  her confirmation or permission. From what Ive seen,  Im satisfied theres a 
process customers need to follow to change their address and I havent  seen anything to 
suggest Ms B followed it.
From everything Ive seen, I think Santander  did attempt to keep Ms B updated about the 
arrears on the mortgage account and recovery action. It wrote  to her at the property address 
and I dont think this was unreasonable considering it was the last known address it had for 
her on her mortgage account.  Whilst I accept Ms B didnt receive the correspondence from 
Santander at this address, I cant agree Santander didnt attempt to inform her of the 
ongoing proceedings and recovery action.
Ref: DRN03010934I know Ms B has gone through  an extremely  difficult  number of years and shes questioned 
whether Santanders  done enough for her as a vulnerable customer. Where a customer  is 
vulnerable, I would expect Santander to act fairly towards them   for example by discussing 
their circumstances and helping them try to get things back  on track. But, whilst I agree Ms B 
has been in a very vulnerable situation  over the years, I dont think  she let Santander know  
this whilst it was carrying out its recovery action. I appreciate this is because  she wasnt  
aware of the recovery action but as Ive explained  above, I dont think  thats due to 
Santanders error. So overall, I think Santander  has done enough in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept  or reject my decision before 
21 June 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0301093