K820x#14complaint
Mr M is complaining about  Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  (L&G). He is 
unhappy that it arranged to transfer the proceeds of his occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) to a Section 32 buy out plan.
background
Mr M took out a Section  32 buy-out plan with L&G in September  1987.
Mr M complained to L&G in 2018.  He said that L&Gs representative had told him he would 
be better off by transferring his funds, but this was not the case. 
L&G didnt uphold  his complaint. It said:
Mr Ms buy out plan was arranged before statutory regulation was introduced on 
29 April 1988, and when  record  keeping was less robust  than it is now. Before this 
L&G adhered  to the Association of British  Insurers (ABI)  Code of Practice.  This 
obliged L&G and its advisers to act with due care and provide all the information a 
reasonable person would consider necessary. There was no requirement to fact find 
as such, or record attitude to risk.
Although it had been unable to trace a copy, Mr M would have  been  given an 
illustration prior to taking  out the plan. The figures shown were designed to provide 
an indication of what benefits his pension might  produce,  based upon the 
assumptions used. The illustration  would have been based  on an assumed growth 
rate approved  by the ABI, and would have been  a reasonable figure to use at the 
time;
Mr M had explained  that he had his own reasons for looking to transfer out of his 
employers occupational pension scheme. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.  But Mr M 
doesnt agree with our investigators  view.  He says in particular that he wasnt given an 
illustration when taking  out the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that L&G has dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly. I appreciate that this will come  
as a disappointment  to Mr M, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
As our investigator explained, Mr Ms policy was arranged before the Financial Services Act 
1986 came  into force  in April 1988.  At the time, a pension provider only had to comply with 
three basic legal obligations:
A duty not to make negligent mis-statements;
A duty to disclose  material  information; 
A duty (if the representative gave advice) to advise with reasonable care and skill.
Unfortunately, the point  of sale documentation  is not available.  This doesnt surprise  me, 
given that events took place some time ago. . In these circumstances, I make my decision 
Ref: DRN08837502based on what I believe is most likely to have happened,  taking into account the available  
evidence and wider  circumstances.  
L&G says that Mr M would have received an illustration when taking out the policy. This 
would have shown  him the potential benefits  of taking  out a buy-out policy.  And, although I 
note that Mr M says he didnt receive  an illustration, Im persuaded on balance  that this 
would have been provided  to him, as it was standard practice to do this.
The figures shown  in the illustration would have been based on sets of assumptions and 
were not guaranteed. At the time, there was guidance from the Association of British 
Insurers on the use of a standard set of assumed  investment returns and annuity rates. 
The L&G representative wasnt obliged to give advice  or make an assessment of attitude to 
risk. If advice  was given the representative  could reasonably have relied on the investment 
returns which were expected at the time.  Im persuaded that these would have  appeared 
favourable. And I also note that, at the time of the transfer, there was some uncertainty over 
the future  of Mr Ms OPS which may also have  made the transfer seem beneficial.  For these  
reasons, Im not satisfied that I can safely conclude that Mr M was misled  or that L&G failed 
to meet  the obligations on it in 1987.  
It is disappointing that actual investment returns have been  much lower than assumed at the 
time. But this could not have been reasonably anticipated in 1987.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0883750