K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Virgin Money  plc made a mistake when it set up a direct debit on his 
bank account.  Mr K is unhappy  with the time that it took Virgin Money to resolve his 
complaint.
background
Mr K had closed two Virgin Money credit card accounts in early  2018. Virgin Money  
mistakenly amended  another customers direct  debit details so that the payments left Mr Ks 
bank account  instead of the correct customer.
When Mr K discovered the direct  debit payments, Virgin Money told him to contact his bank 
as it couldnt see any evidence of the direct debit payments  appearing on either of his credit  
card accounts. 
After Virgin  Money got to the bottom of the error,  it offered  to pay Mr K interest at 8% on the 
refund that his bank made.  Virgin Money also offered to pay Mr K £100  compensation.
The adjudicator thought  that Virgin Money had done enough to put things right so he didnt 
recommend that Mr Ks complaint be upheld.
Mr K isnt happy with the adjudicators recommendation. Mr K doesnt think that Virgin 
Moneys compensation adequately reflects the time and effort that it took for him to get a 
refund. Mr K is concerned that it looks as though anybody can plug in to the banks system 
and take money  from his account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr K was so concerned to find that Virgin Money  was taking money  from 
his account. I also appreciate  why the member  of staff at Virgin Money  gave Mr K the advice 
that it did on how to retrieve the direct  debit payments from his own bank.
Im satisfied that Virgin Money  has offered to put Mr K back in the financial position he 
wouldve been had it not made the mistake. Although Mr K would like Virgin Money to pay 
more compensation  than it has offered,  I consider that £100 is a reasonable sum. 
As far as I can see, Mr K first approached Virgin Money about the direct debits in early  
August 2018.  Virgin Money sent two final responses   the second of which apologised the 
mistake and upheld  Mr Ks complaint. Im satisfied  that Virgin  Money responded to Mr Ks 
complaint within  a reasonable amount of time. 
The compensation payment recognises the trouble that Mr K has faced trying to resolve his 
complaint. It also reflects  the concern that Mr K undoubtedly felt when he realised  that Virgin 
Money had made the mistake and could have carried on taking money from his account.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr K but I dont require Virgin Money to do more  than it has already 
offered to do. If Mr K accepts my decision then Virgin Money should pay him what  it offered 
if it hasnt already done so.
Ref: DRN09824312my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  in the sense that I consider Virgin Money  
has already offered enough to put things right. 
If Mr K wants to accept my decision then Virgin Money should  pay him interest on the 
refunds that his bank made  at 8% a year together with £100 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0982431