K820x#14complaint
Minsted Properties  LLP have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to 
help them when  they fell victim to a scam. They feel Barclays  could have done more to 
prevent the payment going through, or to refund the money. 
The complaint is being led by Mr S and as such,  I will mostly  just be referring to Mr S in this 
decision.
background
On 7 January  2019 Mr S made a payment of £3,188.40 from his Barclays business  current  
account to someone  who he thought was a supplier.  The supplier contacted  Mr S to say that 
he hadnt received  the funds and it quickly became apparent to Mr S that he had made the 
payment to a scammer who had impersonated the supplier and who had sent Mr S an email 
containing their own bank details instead  of the suppliers. On finding this out, Mr S 
contacted Barclays  on 8 January 2019  to tell it what had happened  and to see if there  was 
anything it could do to help. Barclays contacted the scammers bank to see if any of Mr Ss 
money could be retrieved. But the scammers bank confirmed that no money remained from 
Mr Ss transaction.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
Having done so, I think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in allowing  the transfer to leave 
Mr Ss account. And I think  it took appropriate steps  to try and recover funds from the 
beneficiary bank. So, I cant fairly  say that Barclays should reimburse Mr S with the 
£3,188.40 he lost. Ill explain why in more  detail.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. When  Mr S 
made the payment, he didnt know he was dealing with a scammer,  so he sent the money in 
good faith. This means that  at the time  he wanted the payment to go ahead and 
authorised it to be made.  And I have  taken that into account when deciding what  is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Ref: DRN03907922Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer.  
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr S when he transferred £3,188.40  or whether it should have done more  than it did. 
But I dont think the payment  was particularly suspicious or unusual  enough  to say Barclays 
ought to have had concerns that Mr S was being  scammed. I dont think it was sufficiently 
suspicious to conclude  Barclays  ought  to have identified that it may be potentially fraudulent. 
Mr S set up the new payee and made  the payment online. In doing  so he had given his 
suppliers name as the payee name. Mr S says, as he was asked to provide three details for 
the payment  account name, account  number and sort code  he expected that all of that 
information was relevant,  otherwise why ask for it. He believes that Barclays  had a duty of 
care to check all of the information  provided and he was unaware that the bank did not 
correlate the payee name  given against the actual account name  that he was transferring 
the money to.
Barclays used the account number and sort code as the unique  identifiers for the payment 
instruction. The payee  name is used really for the customers own reference in recording 
who they have  made  a payment to. Looking at the terms and conditions for the bank account  
at the time, it confirms  that the information  Barclays requires to make a payment is the 
recipient account  number  and sort code.  In this instance, even if Barclays  had made it clear 
that it didnt cross check the payees  name against  the recipient account name, I consider 
that Mr S would still have  made the transfer.  Thats because he was in no doubt at that time 
that he was paying money  into his suppliers account.
Ref: DRN03907923Checking the account name  of the payee did not form part of the Payment Services  
Regulations in January  2019 and banks actually  did not have that facility available  to them. 
Mr S says that Barclays later added a warning to its internet banking site to inform 
customers that the payee name was not checked.  Mr S is also correct in saying that 
Barclays has now implemented confirmation  of payee as part of its process. These changes 
have been made in response to the ever-changing fraud landscape. We would expect banks 
to innovate new ways  to try and combat  continuing fraud and widespread  implementation of 
a name  checking  system is now coming into force. However, I dont  think  it would be fair to 
hold Barclays to a standard  that was over and above recognised industry  good  practice  at 
the time of the payment. Overall, I dont think that Barclays did anything wrong by following 
the instructions  Mr S had given to make  the transaction.
When Mr S told Barclays that hed been scammed,  it contacted  the scammers bank to see if 
any of Mr Ss money was still in the receiving account and could be retrieved. The 
beneficiary bank  has confirmed that all of the funds had been  removed,  apart from 40p, by 
5am on 8 January  2019. Any further investigations  into what  happened to the money after it 
left the scammers  account werent  the responsibility of Barclays,  and it wouldnt have 
unrestricted access to that information. So, contacting the scammers bank to try and 
retrieve his money was all Barclays could do to help Mr S at that stage.
Its extremely unfortunate that Mr S and his business  partner  have lost out, and I understand 
that this whole experience will have been  hugely upsetting  for them.  But in the 
circumstances, I cant  fairly say that Barclays should  have done  more to prevent that loss. I 
cant hold Barclays responsible for Mr S having fallen victim to a scam, and I think  Barclays 
did all it could to help him once it knew what had happened.  So it would not be fair to ask 
Barclays to compensate Mr S and his partner Mr P for their loss.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Minsted Properties 
LLP to accept or reject  my decision before 24 October 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0390792