K820x#14Complaint
Ms M and Mr M complain  that Nationwide Building Society didnt remove Ms M from a joint 
account correctly  in 2016. As a result, they say Ms M was linked to Mr M via her credit file 
and received a County  Court Judgement (CCJ).  
Background
Ms M and Mr M held a joint account but in October 2016 they submitted a form to remove 
Ms M. Nationwide took steps to remove Ms M from the account but it continued to report it 
as open and linked to Mr M on her credit file. 
A third party  later registered  a CCJ against  both Ms M and Mr M. But Ms M has told us that 
the CCJ had nothing to do with her. 
Ms M complained to Nationwide and said that the third party had only been able to find her 
details after it found a link to her on Mr Ms credit  file. Ms M says that if Nationwide  had 
stopped reporting the link in 2016  when she was removed from the account she wouldnt 
have received a CCJ. 
Ms M works  in a cash office and is concerned  about  the impact  of the CCJ on her job. Ms M 
has also advised that shes faced higher borrowing costs as a result of the CCJ. Ms M 
complained and Nationwide agreed it had failed to stop reporting information  about the 
account to the credit  reference agencies and paid her £75. 
Unhappy with Nationwides response  Ms M and Mr M referred the complaint to our service 
and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator didnt ask Nationwide to do anything  
else as he wasnt persuaded that it was the business  error that led to the CCJ being  
registered against Ms M. Ms M and Mr M didnt accept so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties  agree that Ms M was removed from the account in October 2016 but Nationwide 
continued to incorrectly  report it as active and held in joint names  with Mr M until she 
complained. Ms M has given us details of the impact of this error. I need to decide whether 
Nationwide has dealt  with the complaint fairly and paid a reasonable level of compensation. 
Our investigator asked  Ms M and Mr M for their credit files on a number of occasions but 
only Ms Ms has been provided.
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms M and Mr M but without copies of both of their credit  files I cant 
see what links there are between them. I can see from Ms Ms credit file that she was 
financially associated with Mr M via the Nationwide current account.  But without also looking 
at Mr Ms credit  file, I dont know whether there are any other  financial associations.  
Our investigator has explained  that to disassociate  from each other Ms M and Mr M wouldve 
needed to contact all the credit  reference  agencies. Ms M told the investigator that she only 
contacted one of the credit reference agencies about her financial links with Mr M. So its 
Ref: DRN07730822possible other associations exist. But I havent  seen  Mr Ms credit report  so Im unable to say 
whether there are any other  financial associations.
The credit report Ive seen  for Ms M still shows the Nationwide association  was still in place. 
But the credit file is dated 8 March 2019  and the evidence Nationwide has provided shows  it 
sent another request  to the credit  reference agencies to remove  the financial association 
with Mr M around a week after that date. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Nationwide  
has now taken reasonable steps  to amend the information reported. 
I would also like to explain that our service has no powers to direct  a court to remove  a party 
from a CCJ. Even if I had found evidence that showed it was solely  Nationwides actions that 
led to Ms M being associated with Mr M (which I havent),  I still wouldnt be able to tell the 
court that issued  the judgement to remove her from it. Thats  something Ms M will have to 
take up directly with the court to see whether its possible to amend. 
I realise my decision will come as a disappointment  to Ms M and Mr M. But whilst  I agree 
there was an error, I havent been  persuaded to uphold their complaint. I agree  Nationwide  
made a mistake,  but its taken steps to correct  the information reported. And I think  the £75 it 
paid Ms M fairly reflect the impact of its error  of Ms M and Mr M.
As Im satisfied Nationwide  has dealt  with this complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0773082