K821x#15complaint
Mr O has complained that Timothy James and Partners Ltd (referred  to from now on as 
Timothy James or the business) gave him unsuitable advice  in 2009 to invest part of his Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  into two Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes 
(UCIS). These were  EEA Life Settlements (EEA) and Quadris Environmental (Quadris) 
funds.
Mr Os wife has also brought a complaint about advice she received to invest  in the same funds, 
which I am dealing  with separately, although  I have referred to Mrs O occasionally in this decision  
for context. 
background
The background to the complaint is set out in detail in my provisional  decision issued  on            
27 November 2019. A copy  of the provisional  decision is attached  to and, forms part of, this my 
final decision.
Mr O responded to my provisional decision to say that he accepted the findings  and had nothing  
further to add.
The business did not agree with my findings  and made a detailed submission on                        
18 December 2019.
In its response the business made  three main points:
The suitability of the UCIS investments  should be considered  in light of Mr Os overall 
financial position.
Alternatively, the suitability of the UCIS investments should  be considered in light of all 
Mr Os pension arrangements.
The suitability and risk rating  of the funds at the time. 
The business referred to the fact that the advice letter had been headed Retirement and 
Investment Planning.  It said the advice covered much more  than the investment of a small 
portion of Mr Os pension into UCIS. The letter  and advice set out various ways that £500,000 of 
Mr and Mrs Os £750,000  cash could  be used. Each  of the options was part of an overall 
retirement planning piece that included pensions.
The business says the advice took into account  the overall finances of Mr O. The investment of 
£32,000 in the UCIS  was a very small percentage of his overall  wealth.
The business says the cash held on deposit by Mr and Mrs O should therefore be taken into 
account when  assessing the percentage of Mr Os assets that were to be invested in UCIS  funds.  
It says, assuming £500,000 on deposit  was split equally between  Mr and Mrs O and the cash ISA 
investment of £50,000 was also split equally, Mr O would have held total assets of £554,900. The 
business says the £32,000 investment in UCIS  funds would represent 5.8% of Mr Os available  
assets. The business argues that this would have been a suitable investment  for Mr O.
The business referred to other decisions, which have been  issued  by other ombudsmen  at this 
service, where the whole of the individuals  assets were taken into account and not just the 
monies held in the SIPP. 
Ref: DRN09502922The business also suggested that if it was not appropriate to consider that these investments 
represented a small proportion of Mr Os overall wealth, it was appropriate to consider them  in 
the context of Mr Os other  pensions.  It said that, of the five existing pension  plans Mr O had, it 
advised Mr O not to transfer  two of them. These two had a value of about £93,000.
The business noted Mr O had a state  pension of about £5,000  p.a. that he could draw  on.
Given that the SIPP and other pensions combined were worth around  £255,000, the business 
said the advice  to Mr O to invest £32,000 into two UCIS funds was not unreasonable.  each UCIS 
investment represented  about 6.2%  of Mr Os pension provision (approximately 12.4% in total).  
This was acceptable given that Mr O was rated by it as having  an attitude to risk of 6-7 on a scale 
of 1-10.  
The business noted that our adjudicator  had agreed with it and had concluded that the 
investments in UCIS funds were not unsuitable.  It was only when I looked at the complaint,  after 
Mr O had rejected the adjudicators view, that I stated I was minded to uphold the complaint.
The business said the proposed investments  in the two UCIS funds were  recommended  to 
ensure the SIPP  held a diverse  range of investments. It believed, at the time of advice, that the 
EEA investment  was marginally  riskier than investing in cash. At the time of advice it was not a 
fund thought to have  a high degree  of volatility, illiquidity or both. The business  considered  that 
the issues with the Quadris Fund  were  not foreseeable.
The business has finally argued that it is very difficult  to find investments that are not correlated  
with the stockmarkets  and the two UCIS funds it recommended  did just that at the time that the 
investments were made.  
The two funds selected were thought to meet the requirements of Mr O at the time they were 
recommended.
The business still considers that the complaint from Mr O should be rejected.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
 
I set out, in my provisional decision, why I considered that this complaint should be upheld. A 
copy of this document is attached to, and forms part of, this my final decision.
In particular, I set out that UCIS  are unregulated. This, and the fact that they cant be freely 
promoted, shows that UCIS,  by their very nature, are thought of as a higher  risk investment. I 
stated that the regulators  view is that UCIS are generally regarded as being  characterised by a 
high degree of volatility, illiquidity or both. This means theyre usually thought of as speculative  
investments. In practice UCIS are rarely  considered as suitable for more  than a small 
percentage of an investors portfolio.
Mr O accepted my provisional  decision.
The business did not accept the provisional decision and in its response dated  18 December 
2019 it has made three key arguments. I will address these points  in turn.
Ref: DRN095029231.The investments  that should be taken into account when considering  the suitability of the 
EEA and the Quadris investment
In my provisional decision I stated that the £32,000  invested in UCIS, in the SIPP, was around  
20% of the approximate  £160,000 that Mr O transferred to the SIPP.  I thought that was a high 
proportion of his overall investment invested in high-risk funds and was not suitable for him, given 
his attitude to risk. The business disagreed and argued that the investments should be 
considered as, either a percentage of Mr Os total pension provision, or his total assets,  in which  
case the percentage figure would be much  lower than the 20% figure that I had suggested.
I have therefore  reconsidered the initial advice that was given to Mr O in 2009.  The letter 
containing the recommendation, dated 25 October 2009, indicates the adviser was asked to look 
at Mr and Mrs Os pension provision and the possibility of investing £500,000 of their cash  
deposits. The advice  was divided into two main sections, the advice about the pension provision 
for Mr and Mrs O and a section about  what to do with the £500,000 cash  that was available to 
invest. There was some  indication that the remaining cash, other  than the £500,000 available to 
invest, was earmarked for other projects. So I dont  think its likely that the remainder of Mr and 
Mrs Os cash  was specifically considered when the adviser made his recommendations. That is, 
while the adviser was aware of this cash,  knowing it was likely to be used for other projects  
means its unlikely he made his recommendations thinking that this cash would still be on deposit 
and could be considered a low-risk asset, the holding of which could mean  Mr O was willing to 
take a greater risk with the remainder of his money. Mr O hadnt asked for advice about this 
money and the adviser acknowledged  it was earmarked elsewhere and there is no indication  in 
the recommendation letter that it factored in the advisers thoughts when  constructing  a portfolio 
for Mr Os other money. As such, I think it would be artificial to consider whether the 
recommendation was suitable, by importing other assets into my consideration, when they do not 
appear to have been part of the advisers thinking  at the time.  
Mr O did ask for advice on what to do with his pensions,  which  had a total value of around  
£255,000 and he asked for advice about how to invest £500,000 of his and Mrs Os cash.  In the 
section dealing with how to invest the £500,000 cash, the adviser made various suggestions,  
including investing  the whole £500,000 into a portfolio  similar to the one proposed for Mr Os 
pension investments. As the adviser was considering options to invest this money,  including  into 
a similar  portfolio to the pension  provision, I think its unlikely the business is correct  when it 
suggests the adviser made the recommendations for the pension provision thinking  that Mr and 
Mrs O would be retaining a large  amount of cash on deposit and this would lessen the overall risk 
of the portfolio he was recommending. Nothing in the recommendation letter dated 25 October 
2009 suggests to me the adviser was recommending  a pension portfolio where the overall risk of 
the investments  in it was considered to be lessened by holding large amounts of cash, or other 
assets. Nor does it seem  the adviser  understood that Mr and Mrs O would be likely to retain large 
cash holdings, since the adviser was being  asked to find somewhere to invest  £500,000 and the 
remaining cash was earmarked for other  projects.
In its response to the Financial Ombudsman Service dated  18 December 2019 the business 
calculated that Mr O had at least £554,900 which could be reasonably  said to be his money and 
pensions, even excluding  some other  assets.  The £32,000 invested in UCIS  would represent just 
5.8% of this amount. The business  did not consider that this was unreasonable  given Mr Os 
recorded attitude to risk.
I do understand the point the business is making and it is right that the adviser should have been  
aware of Mr Os overall circumstances when  making his recommendation. I accept that, as part 
Ref: DRN09502924of Mr Os overall assets, the UCIS  investments were relatively  small and Mr O probably did have 
the capacity to accept  the risk they posed.  But I also need  to consider that Mr O wasnt seeking 
advice about what to do with all this money and it doesnt seem  to have been envisaged that    
Mr O would continue to hold all this cash.  Nothing  in the recommendation letter  explained that 
the adviser was recommending  a portfolio of investments that would represent a greater  risk than 
Mr O said he was willing to accept, but that would  be offset  by Mr O having  substantial assets 
elsewhere. I think if that was the approach the adviser was taking, he ought  to have made that 
very clear to Mr O. So, for the reasons given, I dont think  I should  consider the suitability of the 
UCIS investments solely on the basis that they formed a small part of Mr Os overall wealth that 
he could afford to take a risk with. 
Even if I accepted that the adviser  was considering Mr Os overall position when recommending 
these UCIS  investments and that Mr O had the capacity to take the risk posed by the two UCIS, I 
do not think the evidence shows that Mr O wanted to take the level of risk posed by those 
investments. I will return to this point later.
2.The make-up of the pensions that Mr O held not just the pension funds transferred to the 
SIPP.
The business has argued, alternatively, that I should consider the percentage of Mr Os total 
pension provision that was invested  in UCIS funds, if I dont think his overall wealth  should  be 
taken into account.  The business has noted that about £93,000 was not transferred to the new 
SIPP because the existing policies benefitted  from Guaranteed Annuity Rates.
It says that if the pension  funds, that were  retained, are included, then the overall percentage of 
his pension provision  invested in UCIS funds would be £32,000/£255,000 or 12.5%. Whilst this is 
lower than the figure of 20% set out above, in my opinion this was still not a suitable 
recommendation for Mr O.  
The fact find records Mr O was assessed by the business as having an attitude to risk of 6/10 for 
pension planning.  This is described  in the fact find, as:
6 Realistic  e.g.  managed  and balanced funds, index-tracking and income funds, 
protected stockmarket bonds.
I do not consider  the advice to invest 20%, or 12%,  of his SIPP in high risk UCIS funds was in 
line with his recorded attitude to risk of  6 on a scale of 1-10, where 6 suggested investments in 
managed and balanced funds. These  are much less risky than UCIS investments. These were 
not the only high-risk investments held in the SIPP either. The adviser recommended, what he 
described as, a high-risk investment and said because it was high-risk  he was limiting  the 
recommendation to 5% of the funds  to be invested in the SIPP.  I think  if he had properly taken 
account of Mr Os attitude to risk and the degree  of risk associated with the EEA and Quadris  
funds, he might well have  recommended  investment in smaller proportions, or not at all. 
I note that the adviser said, in relation to the Quadris fund On our risk scale  of 1-10 we would 
rate this as a six which still sits comfortably within your risk parameters. This suggests the 
adviser equated the risk of investing  in this fund with managed and balanced funds, index-
tracking and income  funds, protected stockmarket  bonds . I do not agree that this accurately 
reflects the level of risk posed  by an investment in one niche area (timber plantations) in one 
country, which could reasonably be described  as an emerging economy. According  to the 
business own risk scale, it would have  considered  investments  in commodity  funds, funds in 
Ref: DRN09502925specialised markets and individual countries with low market capitalisation, which  appears  the 
most likely category for this investment, as being  9/10 on its risk scale.  
I think this is important because if the adviser  was tailoring investments and a portfolio to suit         
Mr Os risk profile,  but he didnt appreciate the extent of the risks,  or misrepresented them, he 
might not have recommended that investment if he had understood it, might have recommended 
a smaller proportion be invested,  or Mr O might not have agreed  to invest  if the extent of the risks 
had been highlighted correctly. 
In terms of his pension investments, the business  recommended he keep two of his existing 
pension plans. One, with a value  of £64,674 was invested in a with profits  fund and the 
recommendation was to keep it there.  The business described with profits  funds as representing  
a risk of 5/10 on its risk scale.  The other, with a value of £28,452, was invested in a managed  
fund, which  the business categorised as 6/10 on its risk scale. Essentially, it recommended 
keeping some pension  plans that broadly fitted  with his attitude  to risk. 
So even if I accept that the advice  given to invest in this portfolio, was made  on the basis that 
some of Mr Os pension  provision would be retained in lower risk investments, which  would allow 
for some more speculative investments, I dont  think  that was achieved. 
Retaining two personal pensions with a value of around £93,000  and invested  in managed and 
with profits  funds  which the firm regarded as 6/10 and 5/10 on its risk scale, respectively, did 
not balance the risks posed by the Quadris and EEA funds. Using the businesss own risk scale,  
none of the funds in the portfolio recommended by the business would appear  to be less than 
6/10 on its risk scale. So the only investment that would have slightly reduced the overall  level of 
risk posed  by the portfolio  was the pension plan the business suggested  Mr O retain, which  had 
an investment of £64,674 in a fund the business  classed as 5/10 on the risk scale.
I dont think it can be said that Mr Os pension  holdings, overall, matched his attitude  to risk. The 
two high-risk UCIS  investments werent really  offset by anything  low risk. It seems the adviser  
recommended them  because he didnt think they were  high-risk  investments and thought they 
broadly fitted in with the other investments, which more or less, were in line with Mr Os recorded 
attitude to risk. 
3.Suitability and Risk Rating of the funds at the time of advice
As I set out in my provisional  decision I consider  that the business  should have been aware that 
the EEA Life Settlements Fund was unusual. It invested in second-hand life assurance policies 
and relied on being  able to sell the life policies that it had bought as investments  for a good price  
when it needed  to. The policies might need to be sold so that the fund could satisfy the demands 
for repayments from investors. In my opinion,  the business should have realised that there was 
always a risk that there would be no buyers at the prices that the fund manager wanted at the 
relevant time and the fund could  be forced  to suspend  redemptions. (This is indeed what 
happened to the fund after the regulator issued  a report saying that the EEA fund was not low 
risk).
If the fund could not sell its life policies at satisfactory prices then it would have to wait for the 
policyholders to die to receive the monies due. As a result of policyholders living  longer than 
expected (by the actuaries at the EEA Fund) these  claim  payments were not being received as 
early as had been  anticipated by the manager. This also meant  that the premiums due on the 
policies would be payable  for longer. As a result the returns to investors on the life policies will be 
lower than had been  forecast at the time that the EEA Fund was set up.
Ref: DRN09502926In my opinion the business should have carried out its own due diligence  on the EEA Life 
Settlements Fund and, that if it had done  so, it would have realised that this was not a low risk or 
even a medium risk investment and that it was unsuitable for Mr O who was 67 at the time that 
the investment  was made in 2009.  There was no certainty that any of the life policies could be 
sold in eight years  time at a good  price  when Mr O would be 75. I consider that proper due 
diligence would have  reached the conclusion, reached by the regulator, that the EEA fund was 
not low risk.
Once the regulator had announced that the EEA Fund was not a low risk investment but was in 
fact a high-risk investment, many  of the investors  tried to withdraw their investments. As at the 
time there was insufficient cash in the fund and the policies  could  not be sold at a fair price, 
withdrawals from the fund were suspended. I do however agree that since then the fund has 
managed to sell some  of its life policies and some of the policies have become claims. As a 
result there have been a number of on-account payments  to investors such as Mr O. 
 
I note the Quadris  fund invested in tree plantations in Brazil. The literature that the fund provided 
showed that it was promising  investors :
Low volatility;
Uncorrelated to the performance of stocks and shares;
Consistent absolute  returns.
Asset backed investment.
The prospectus for the fund showed that the returns achieved in the past had been steady and, 
apart from minor  drop in 2007, had been  positive.  The fund price had not suffered the drop that 
the stockmarkets had over the same time frame,
In my opinion the business should have also realised that investments in the Quadris Fund  could 
only be sold when a new investor was found  or the new trees planted had become fully mature. 
However the trees would take some considerable time to reach  maturity.  This fund ran a very 
high risk that an investor would not be able to sell their investment for many years when the trees 
that had been planted  were harvested. In the meantime the fund would be incurring costs that 
would need to be met by the investors.
I consider that if the business had done its own due diligence on the Quadris fund it would have  
realised that the investment was unsuitable  for Mr O who was going  to reach age 75 in eight 
years time. 
Other matters
In its response to my provisional decision the business has referred  to an apparently similar 
complaint made by a different person, where  the complaint was not upheld  by the ombudsman. 
That ombudsman considered that the proposed high-risk investment was modest  when looked at 
as a percentage of the complainants  overall investment portfolio.
I have looked  at this other complaint in more detail and note that it was about a further 
investment of £75,000 into a UCIS  fund,  in which there was already an investment. The 
ombudsman noted  that the policyholder  had an investment portfolio that was worth  around        
£3 million and that the proportion of the assets  in the investment portfolio invested in UCIS  was 
around 10% with around 3% being invested  in the fund where the additional £75,000  was being 
invested.
Ref: DRN09502927There is no indication in this decision as to how old the other  investor was, or whether they had 
significant separate pension benefits,  or whether they had no pension benefits at all. These 
factors and others,  will all have an impact on what risks the other investor was prepared  to take 
with the investment funds that they had. 
 
It is important  to realise that each case is looked  on its merits and I do not consider that the 
position of the other individual and Mr O are comparable.
Summary
In summary,  Mr O was investing part of his SIPP in high risk assets  that did not match his 
attitude to risk and those  risks werent  balanced  by investments into lower  risk assets.  
I understand the business  argument for saying his overall pension  provision  was £255,000, he 
was keeping £93,000 in PPPs and £162,000 was to be invested in this SIPP,  with £32,000  of it 
invested in UCIS and so it was only really 12% of his total pension  provision in high risk 
investments. That argument might  be more persuasive if the adviser had consciously done that 
and explained  it to Mr O. Instead, he told Mr O that one of these high-risk  funds was a medium 
risk, or 6/10 and matched  his risk profile.  We know that the EEA fund was sold as being  low risk 
when it was high risk and it also is out of step with Mr Os attitude to risk. The one fund where the 
adviser did acknowledge it was a high risk, he recommended an investment of just 5% of the 
SIPP be invested there. Had he done  things  properly, he might only have recommended  5% (or 
less, or none  at all)  be invested in these  UCIS.  I am satisfied  there were errors  and I think its 
likely but for those errors the adviser  would have recommended a lower  holding in those  funds, 
or he would have decided against recommending  investing in those funds altogether, or Mr O 
would have been reluctant to invest in funds that were well above  his stated tolerance for risk. I 
think he would have  still invested the same  amount of money  and so the fair thing to do seems  to 
me to be to put him in the position  he would have been in if he had been advised  to invest this 
£32,000 in funds that matched his attitude  to risk.
As I am still of the opinion that both of the UCIS  investments proposed  for Mr O were  unsuitable  I 
uphold this complaint and I award  redress as set out in my earlier  provisional decision.
redress
As I do not know where Mr O would have invested  the funds that he invested in the Quadris  Fund 
and the EEA Fund  I have  assumed that the monies would have been invested in line with a 
medium risk index.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr O, as far as possible,  into the position he would probably now be in if
hed been given suitable advice. I think Mr O would not have invested  in the two UCIS funds that 
he did and would have  invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what he would have 
done differently.  But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Os 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should Timothy  James  do?
Ref: DRN09502928To compensate Mr O fairly,  the business must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr Os investments with that of the benchmark  shown 
below.
A separate calculation should  be carried  out for each investment. The losses should be
combined and the total is the amount of compensation  payable. The business  should  add interest  
as set out below.
If there  is a loss, the business should  pay into Mr Os pension  plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of the compensation  and any interest. The amount paid should  allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If the business is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Os pension  plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan,  it would have provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Os actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax in retirement.
Mr O is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer in retirement. The reduction should equal the 
current basic rate of tax. However, as Mr O would have been able to take a tax-free lump  
sum, the reduction  should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition,  the business should pay Mr O £250 for the disruption  caused to his retirement 
planning. The business should also provide details of the calculation  to Mr O in a clear,  simple 
format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If the business  deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr O how much has been  taken off. The business should give Mr O a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment name
Status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional interest
Ref: DRN09502929EEA Life 
Settlements 
Fundstill existsFTSE  UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income  Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision  to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation isnt 
paid within28 days  
of the business  
being notified  of 
acceptance)
Quadris 
Environ- 
mental 
FundNow 
wound  upFTSE  UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income  Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision  to date 
of settlement  (if 
compensation 
isnt paid within
28 days of the 
business being 
notified  of 
acceptance)
for each investment:
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. The business should  take ownership  of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out 
above.
If the business is unable to purchase  the investment, the actual value should be assumed  to 
be nil for the purpose  of calculation. The business may require that Mr O provides an 
undertaking to pay to it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt 
from the pension  plan. The business will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point  on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if the business  totals all those payments and deducts that 
Ref: DRN095029210figure at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr O wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
 The FTSE  UK Private  Investors  Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return  index)  is made  up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
 Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow  me to use it as a reasonable  measure of comparison 
given Mr Os circumstances and risk attitude.
Finally, the business  should pay Mr O £250 for the trouble and upset caused by the disruption  to 
his retirement planning.  Mr O has been  caused  a great deal of upset by the problems with these 
investments. I think a payment of £250 is appropriate for that upset.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Timothy James and Partners Ltd and I direct that it pay redress as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject 
my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN095029211COPY OF PROVISONAL DECISION DATED 27 NOVEMBER 2019
complaint
Mr O has complained that Timothy James and Partners Ltd (referred to from now on as Timothy James 
or the business) gave him unsuitable advice in 2009 to invest  part of his Self-Invested  Personal Pension 
(SIPP) into two Unregulated  Collective Investment  Schemes (UCIS).  These were EEA Life Settlements 
(EEA) and Quadris Environmental (Quadris)  funds.
In December 2009 Mr O invested £16,028 into the EEA fund and £16,026 into the Quadris fund.
background
In April 2008  a fact find was completed. This noted that Mr and Mrs O owned  their home  worth about  
£850,000 and an investment property worth £350,000 that was rented out at about £1,000 per month.  In 
addition to this Mr and Mrs O held £790,000 on deposit some of which was to be used  to buy a plot of land 
as an investment. Mr O held pension  plans worth just over £270,000.
Mr O was recorded  as having an attitude to risk for pension investments that was 6-7 on a scale of 1 to 10.
In August 2008 the business wrote to Mr and Mrs O setting out some interesting and unusual investment 
propositions that were not related to the stockmarket. At the time the stock market was experiencing 
significant falls and volatility. The ideas set out included the EEA fund.
In October  2009 there was another meeting between Mr O and the business at which  it was recorded  
that Mr and Mrs O held over £750,000  on deposit. They were interested in investing £500,000 of this 
for the medium to long term.
Mr O was still recorded by the business as having an attitude to risk that was 6 -7 on a scale of 1 to 10. Mr 
O was advised to transfer four of his pension plans  into a new SIPP but to take benefits from another  plan 
as it benefitted from a generous Guaranteed  Annuity Rate (GAR).
The business  proposed that 10% of the new SIPP  be invested in the EEA fund and 10% in the Quadris 
fund. The idea being that these two funds were completely non-correlated  to other asset classes. The 
EEA fund invested  in US life policies and the Quadris fund invested in teak plantations  in Brazil.
Mr O accepted the advice and invested  around £16,000 in the EEA fund and around £16,000 into the 
Quadris fund in December 2009.
The Quadris  fund was suspended in March 2011. 
The EEA fund was closed to new investments in November 2011.
On 1 December 2011 the business wrote to Mr O to inform him that the regulator had announced that, 
whilst it was aware that many life settlements funds like the EEA Life Settlements Fund had been 
considered to be low risk, they were in fact high risk and were generally  unsuitable for retail  investors.
Following this announcement many retail investors in the EEA fund sought to sell their holdings. This 
unexpected surge in applications for redemptions  by investors  meant that the fund had to suspend  
withdrawals as at that time.  It was not possible  for the fund managers to sell the underlying investments 
quickly enough to meet  the redemption  requests  that they had received.
On 2 March 2012 Mr O replaced the business as his advisers. 
Ref: DRN095029212I note that since the EEA fund was suspended in 2011  it has managed to sell some of the life policies that 
it held and that some other polices that it held have become claims (when the policyholder has died).  This 
has meant that the EEA fund has been able to make  a number of interim payments to Mr O and other 
investors.
On 11 November  2015  Mr Os new adviser  informed  the business that Mr O was going to complain  about 
the advice that he had received to invest in the Quadris fund and in the EEA fund.
  
On 14 January 2016 Mr O complained to the business about the advice that he had received to invest 
some of his pension  provision in the Quadris Fund and some in the EEA Fund.
The business  initially considered that the complaint had been made  too late and was therefore  not a 
complaint that the Financial Ombudsman Service could  consider.
I investigated the jurisdiction issue and concluded that the complaint  was indeed one that this service could 
investigate. The business accepted my decision that the complaint was made in time.
 
The business  then considered the merits of the complaint.
The business  noted that in April 2008 Mr O had his attitude to risk assessed as being 6-7 on a scale of 1-
10. 
This was recorded as: 
a realistic approach to investment risk and you understood  the type of assets that would match 
your approach, such as managed and balanced funds (both  UK and globally based), index tracking 
funds and UK-equity based funds
In July 2008  it is noted  that Mr Os attitude  to risk had remained unchanged but that he was aware of the 
need for diversification within your portfolios  bearing in mind  the volatility  currently experienced in different 
financial markets.
This statement referred to the fact that in 2008 stockmarkets around the world  were experiencing 
significant falls. The business considered  that investing a small part of Mr Os overall  wealth in these non-
standard investments  was not unreasonable. 
The business  rejected the complaint.
On 27 May 2016 Mr O complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was looked  at by an 
investigator.
The investigator did not uphold the complaint from Mr O as he considered that the two UCIS investments 
were a small percentage of Mr Os overall  wealth.  He considered that given the attitude to risk of 6-7 that 
the advice to invest a small proportion of Mr Os overall  assets into higher risk investments was not 
unsuitable.
A claims  management  company (CMC) acting on behalf of Mr O disagreed, saying:
 Mr O couldnt make an informed  decision  about the advice because the adviser didnt say how 
much of their joint savings  were being  taken  into account when calculating  risk.
 The funds were misrepresented so the adviser  couldnt  have ensured they were suitable  
for Mr O. Its the advisers responsibility  to assess the investment. In particular, the EEA 
investment was marketed as low risk.
Ref: DRN095029213  The  portfolio was unsuitable based  on the fact that the EEA and the Quadris funds were high risk 
investments.
As agreement  has not been reached the complaint has been referred  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
It is important to note first that the business was advising Mr O on where to invest  his pension funds. It 
noted that he held significant amounts of cash deposits, but these were  to be used for other  purposes 
including a possible property development. 
The business  recorded  Mr Os attitude  to risk as follows: 
a realistic approach  to investment risk and you understood the type of assets that would match 
your approach, such as managed and balanced funds (both  UK- and globally  based), index 
tracking funds  and UK-equity based funds
This was given a numerical  value of 6-7 on a risk scale of 1-10. The assets that are referred  to here, such  
as managed and balanced funds, are much less risky than the UCIS funds. 
The promotion of UCIS investments (such as the EEA and Quadris funds) to the general public  is 
normally not allowed unless the relevant regulations allow an exemption.  In this case, the business  
believed that it could market the UCIS investments to Mr O.
But, as the name  suggests, UCIS are unregulated. This, and the fact that they cant  be freely promoted, 
shows that UCIS, by their very nature, are thought of as a higher  risk. The regulators view is that UCIS 
are generally  regarded as being characterised by a high degree of volatility, illiquidity or both. This means 
theyre usually  thought  of as speculative investments.  This means that in practice UCIS are rarely 
considered as suitable for more than a small percentage of an investors portfolio.
The business  has argued that it did not just rely on the marketing literature  that had been produced on both 
the EEA and Quadris funds but had done extensive research of its own. 
The business  initially believed that the EEA Fund had an investment risk that was around a 6. This would 
have been in line with Mr Os attitude  to risk. It believed  that the advice to invest  10% of the SIPP  in the 
EEA Fund was therefore not inappropriate for Mr O. It is not clear  on what  basis the business determined 
that investment in this esoteric fund matched his recorded attitude to risk, given 6-7 was said to equate to 
managed and balanced funds investing in index-tracking funds and UK equity-based investments. The 
investment was essentially in traded life insurance  policies, not UK based equities  or index-tracking funds. 
It was a narrowly focused, specialist fund. 
The Quadris  fund was investing  in teak plantations in Brazil. This involved planting seedlings  and then 
waiting 20-25 years for the trees to grow before they could be harvested and the timber  sold.  It was likely  
that there would be little return before  the trees were harvested. There was unlikely to be any annual 
dividend and the investment  ran significant risks that it could  become illiquid and remain so for a very long 
time. In the circumstances I consider that the business should have realised that the investment  was 
inappropriate for Mr O who wished to take benefits from his SIPP in less than ten years time.  It should also 
be apparent that this investment did not tally with his recorded attitude to risk. 
The business  has argued recently in its submissions to this service  that even if the EEA Fund and the 
Quadris Fund had been  classed  as having a risk rating of 10 out of 10 that the overall weighted average 
rating on the portfolio  was still in line with the 6-7 category  that it had determined for Mr O. 
Ref: DRN095029214However, in my opinion, the business should have realised  the potential problems with the proposed 
investment in the Quadris fund made it unsuitable  for Mr O. This was a long-term overseas investment  in a 
single commodity in an unregulated  fund. In my opinion this would  have been considered  as a high-risk  
investment. Unfortunately, the fund never made the very attractive returns  that investors were  led to 
believe were possible  in the literature  and there were no new investors  that would buy the investments 
from existing investors  such as Mr O.
I note that the Quadris fund has now been wound  up with investors suffering a total loss of their 
investments.
Mr O has confirmed  that he was aware  that a portfolio  with an overall  risk rating of say 5 could include  
some assets that were classed  as higher risk and some that would be lower risk. However, I do not agree 
that the advice to invest  20% of Mr Os pension provision in high risk UCIS funds was appropriate given 
that Mr O had stated that he wanted a realistic approach to investing, which  was said to be broadly in 
keeping with the risks associated with index-tracking funds and UK based equities. I also cannot  see that 
the high risks associated with the UCIS investments were adequately balanced by investments in low risk 
areas.
I note that in its response to the Financial  Ombudsman Service on 8 May 2019 the business  argued that, 
because Mr O was considering developing a new property, he was willing to take a high level of risk with 
the investments  in his SIPP. I do not agree that these risks are comparable. In my opinion it was clear that 
Mr O had asked for advice  on his SIPP investments and had not asked  the business to advise him on the 
wisdom of the building project that was being planned.
 
I finally note that the business has stated that it carried  out extensive separate investigations of both the 
Quadris fund and the EEA funds before they were  recommended  to Mr O. I have to conclude that the 
investigations were not thorough as they did not highlight  the very serious risks of failure in the Quadris 
fund and the fact that the EEA fund was not a low or even medium  risk investment. Whilst it did set out that 
there might be problems in selling the investments  if Mr O needed to do so to pay for his pension the scale 
of these risks was understated.
I am therefore minded  to uphold this complaint and to propose a method  of redress.
As I do not know where Mr O would have invested the funds that he invested in the Quadris  Fund and the 
EEA Fund I have assumed  that the monies  would have been invested in line with a medium risk index.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr O, as far as possible, into the position he would probably  now be in if
hed been given suitable advice. I think Mr O would not have invested in the two UCIS funds  that he did 
and would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what  he would have done  differently. 
But Im satisfied that what  Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Os circumstances and 
objectives when he invested.
what should Timothy James do?
To compensate Mr O fairly,  the business must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr Os investments with that of the benchmark shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment. The losses should be
combined and the total is the amount of compensation payable. The business  should add interest as set 
out below.
If there is a loss, the business should pay into Mr Os pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief.
Ref: DRN095029215Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with any existing protection 
or allowance.
If the business  is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Os pension plan, it should  pay that amount  
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would  have provided  a taxable income. 
Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow  for any income tax that would  
otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Os actual or expected  marginal rate of tax in 
retirement.
Mr O is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer in retirement.  The reduction should equal the current 
basic rate of tax. However, as Mr O would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum,  the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition,  the business  should pay Mr O £250 for the disruption caused  to his retirement  planning. The 
business should also provide details of the calculation to Mr O in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid.  If the business deducts  income tax from the interest it 
should tell Mr O how much has been taken off. The business should give Mr O a tax deduction  
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment name
status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
EEA Life 
Settlements 
Fundstill existsFTSE  UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per year 
from date of 
decision to date of 
settlement  (if 
compensation isnt 
paid within28  days 
of the business 
being notified of 
acceptance)
Quadris 
Environ- 
mental 
FundNow 
wound upFTSE  UK 
Private  Investors  
Income Total  
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of 
my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation isnt 
paid within
28 days  of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
for each investment:
actual value
This means  the actual  amount paid or payable from the investment  at the end date.
Ref: DRN095029216It may be difficult to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value  should be assumed 
to be nil to arrive at fair compensation.  The business should take ownership  of the illiquid investment 
by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted 
from the compensation and the balance  paid as I set out above.
If the business  is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should  be assumed  to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. The business may require that Mr O provides an undertaking  to pay to it any 
amount he may receive from the investment in the future.  That undertaking  must  allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. The business  will need to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  using the 
benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation from that point 
on. If there are a large number of regular  payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept  if the 
business totals  all those payments and deducts  that figure  at the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr O wanted capital growth and was willing  to accept some investment risk.
 The FTSE  UK Private  Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock  Market  Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  with different  
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds.  It would  be a fair measure for 
someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
 Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is 
close enough to allow  me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr Os 
circumstances and risk attitude.
Finally, the business should pay Mr O £250 for the trouble and upset  caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning. Mr O has been  caused a great deal of upset by the problems with these  three 
investments. I think a payment of £250 is appropriate for that upset.
my provisional  decision
I am minded  to uphold this complaint against Timothy James and Partners Ltd and to direct  that it pay 
redress as set out above.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0950292