K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Aviva Insurance Limited  turned down their travel insurance claim 
for the contents  of a stolen bag.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I wasnt likely to uphold  this complaint. This is what I said:
During a holiday at a hotel complex  abroad  Mr and Mrs L left a bag under their sun loungers 
while they went for swim. When  they returned  the bag had been stolen. They reported  this to 
the police, listing the combined value of the bags contents at the local currency equivalent of 
around £2,500.  This was because the bag contained two mobile  phones, two pairs  of ear 
buds, a video  camera, designer sunglasses and cash. They  also reported the theft to their 
holiday representative and contacted  Aviva  to make a claim.
Aviva turned down  the claim. It said the travel insurance policy didnt  cover  possessions 
which Mr and Mrs L had left somewhere not in their full view and with no one known to them 
looking after the possessions. Mr and Mrs L didnt think  this was fair as they were in a 
secure hotel complex  at the time. They came to us.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint as he didnt think Aviva had done enough to bring  the 
significant policy exclusion to Mr and Mrs Ls attention. 
Aviva didnt agree. It didnt think the requirement  to keep valuable belongings in full view was 
significant, and a failure to do this could mean a lack of reasonable care, depending on the 
value of the items. Leaving higher value items  unattended  (as here) would need a higher 
level of protection,  and Aviva should not have to specify this in the key facts.  Other  policies 
in the travel insurance market didnt include this in the key facts. Aviva  also said our findings 
were out of line with the approach we had taken in similar cases. So the complaint has come 
to me for review. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not likely to uphold  it. 
Aviva has relied on the policy wording  in turning down  the claim. In particular, it says that it 
wont cover  Loss or theft of personal  money  and travel documents,  baggage or valuables  
which you have deliberately left somewhere that is not in your full view and with no one 
known to you looking after them.  The policy definition of valuables includes mobile phones,  
any accessories designed  to be used  with these items and video cameras.
Our investigator has said that Aviva cant rely on the significant  policy  exclusions its quoted 
because they werent  highlighted in the policys key facts. Mr and Mrs L havent argued they 
were unaware of the policy  terms. Rather they argue that by leaving the bag under  sun 
loungers in a secure hotel complex,  with security guards, there was effectively someone 
looking after their possessions. 
I dont agree that security guards within the hotel  complex meant that someone  was looking 
after Mr and Mrs Ls possessions. Theres no evidence that someone known to them was in 
Ref: DRN09641422looking after the bag when it was stolen. And Mr and Mrs L deliberately  chose to leave the 
bag under their sun loungers when they both went to the swimming pool. Ive looked at the 
photographs of their sun loungers and the proximity to the pool. They  say the pool area was 
quiet but I dont think it can reasonably be argued that the bag was in their full view. They 
didnt see the theft or have any witnesses to the theft. 
Even if Mr and Mrs L werent aware  of the policy terms it is a common  term in most  
insurance policies  to take reasonable care and to act as if uninsured.  The Aviva policy 
includes a condition about this and Aviva  has specifically referred to it. On page 23 the policy 
says You must take all reasonable precautions to protect yourself  and your property against  
accident, injury, theft, loss or damage. You must take the same level of care as you would if 
you did not have  this policy. 
Mr and Mrs Ls bag contained valuables and cash worth around  £2,500.  I think  they realised 
there was some risk about leaving the bag as they put the bag under their sun lounger. But 
I dont think they took any reasonable  steps to prevent the bag being stolen, such  as one of 
them remaining  behind to keep an eye on it. I think this would have  been  reasonable given 
the value of the items in the bag. I understand that they were  in a hotel complex, which they 
say was secure with everyone needing a fob to enter the grounds and to wear  a wrist band. 
But this was still a public  place in that other  guests,  staff and any visitors would have access 
to the grounds  so there was still a risk of theft. 
Mr and Mrs L say that the policy wording  means  that they wouldnt have been covered even 
if theyd left their possessions in their hotel room. But thats not the case.  The policy did 
include cover  for theft of their possessions from their locked hotel  room.  When taking their 
valuable belongings out with them they had to keep the items in their full view. Their  decision 
to leave the bag while they both went to swim  in the pool means  that I think  Aviva fairly 
turned down their claim. 
I know my decision will be very disappointing to Mr and Mrs L, given our earlier findings. 
They have suffered a substantial  loss following the theft of their possessions. But I cant  
fairly require  Aviva to pay their claim for that loss, given they left the bag somewhere  not in 
their full view and without  anyone looking after it.
responses
Aviva had nothing  further to add.
Mr and Mrs L rejected my provisional  decision, saying there was ample evidence  that they 
felt meant  their insurance  claim should be paid. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed all the evidence again  but for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision 
and here I dont uphold this complaint.  Mr and Mrs L gave Aviva evidence about  the 
circumstances of the theft and the items stolen. Thats not in dispute. But I think Aviva  was 
fairly entitled to rely on its policy exclusion not to pay Mr and Mrs Ls claim in circumstances  
where, on their own evidence they left their bag containing their valuable possessions  
somewhere not in their full view and without anyone  looking after it. 
Ref: DRN09641423Mr and Mrs L have asked  what they can do now. They are entitled to reject my final decision.  
If they do so then my decision  is not binding on either themselves or Aviva. Theyd  need to 
take their own independent  advice  on any legal remedies open to them.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0964142