K821x#15complaint
Mr S says CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading  as QuickQuid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 4 deferred repayment  payday loans QuickQuid  provided  to Mr S 
between July 2017 and April 2018.  Each loan was repaid  over a period of 3 months and 3 of 
the loans were topped up. This is a summary of Mr Ss lending  history from QuickQuid.
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 31/07/2017 25/10/2017 250
2 30/10/2017 250
top up 01/11/201726/01/201850
3 10/02/2018 300
top up 12/02/2018 100
top up 14/02/2018 75
top up 15/02/201826/04/2018
50
4 27/04/2018 250
top up 29/04/2018 100
top up 01/05/2018 175
top up 02/05/201830/07/2018
100
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ss complaint in part and thought loan 4, and its top ups, shouldnt  
have been given. QuickQuid disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN03857122the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator that there was nothing to indicate  QuickQuid needed  to do more  
when it approved loan 1 and 2. And whilst  it should have carried out more  checks for loan 3, 
I havent seen  any evidence that better information would have made  a difference  to the 
lending decision.  So I dont think QuickQuid was wrong to give loans 1 to 3 to Mr S.
Ive then looked at the overall  pattern of QuickQuids  lending history with Mr S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which QuickQuid should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so QuickQuid should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
By this stage Mr S had applied for 3 deferred  repayment loans with only 5 days  
break between loans 1 and 2, and 15 days between loans 2 and 3. And he was 
borrowing more each  time. Mr S needed to top up loan 2 only one day after getting  
the money he initially applied for. And he topped up loan 3 three  times  within  4 days. 
This suggests to me he was struggling to manage his money. 
He then applied  for loan 4 only one day after settling loan 3. So QuickQuid ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr S was having  to borrow further  to cover 
the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his finances  and that Mr Ss 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr S was provided with loans  for an almost  unbroken period of ten months. In this 
time the value he borrowed  increased  rapidly  from £150  for loan 1 to £625  for loan 4 
Ref: DRN03857123(including top ups). So not only was he not making  any real inroads to the amount he 
owed QuickQuid his indebtedness was increasing. So Mr S was paying rapidly 
growing amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Quick  Quid  over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr S lost out because QuickQuid provided loan 4 and its top ups. I say this 
because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the frequent use and increasing value  of the loans was likely to have  had negative  
implications on Mr Ss ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 4, including the top ups, and QuickQuid should 
put things right. 
I have considered QuickQuids response  to our adjudicators view, and its request that we 
demonstrate exactly how and why the loans are unsustainable giving detail of the detriment 
caused. Our adjudicator responded setting out why - taking into consideration CONC 
5.2.A.12 (3) that states a firm must consider the customers ability to make  repayments 
without having  to borrow to do so - she felt Mr S borrowing history suggested there was a 
risk he would need to borrow  to repay  his loans.  
And based on Mr Ss lending relationship  with QuickQuid  I agree. Mr S was opting for 
deferred repayment loans; increasing  the value of his loans and the subsequent top ups 
each time;  and his level of indebtedness  was increasing. Based on the individual  
circumstances of Mr Ss relationship with QuickQuid, I think  it should  have better  considered 
the possible impact of repeat lending to him when it agreed to loan 4. At this stage it seems 
to me it would have  been clear that it was most likely Mr S was having to borrow  more to 
make up for the shortfall in his finances  that repaying loan 3 had caused.
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loan 4 including  the top ups;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
my conclusion  means any information  recorded about loan 4 is adverse. So all 
entries about loan 4 should be removed from Mr Ss credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest.  QuickQuid must give 
Mr S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN03857124my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ss complaint. CashEuroNet UK LLC 
(trading as QuickQuid) should pay Mr S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0385712