K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has complained about Vitality Health Limiteds administration  of her claim under her 
private medical insurance policy.
background
Mrs P contacted Vitality  to seek authorisation for an appointment  with a consultant in relation 
to her cystitis. Vitality agreed to provide cover. The consultation took place on 11 November 
2016. Mrs P had to pay the policys £250  excess.
Over the next 12 months,  Mrs P continued  to have  treatment  for her condition for which  
Vitality provided cover.
Mrs P had further treatment on 11 November  2017.  Vitality contacted  her on receiving the 
invoice for this and said it needed further  information  before it could confirm cover. However,  
Vitality gave her the wrong email address to which the information should  be sent and, partly 
as a result  of this, it took Mrs P several telephone calls and emails  before she could provide 
the necessary  information to Vitality.
In January 2018, Vitality confirmed the latest  treatment was eligible for cover under the 
policy. However, Mrs P then found, through an email, that she had to pay a further £250 
excess because the claim had been ongoing  for over a year.
Mrs P complained to Vitality that the requirement to pay a further excess  hadnt  been made 
clear either on her policy certificate or by its staff in her recent  telephone  conversations with 
them. She said that Vitality had provided a poor service.
Vitality confirmed that the requirement to pay a new excess after a claim had been in 
progress for twelve months  was explained  in the policy document. However,  it apologised for 
its poor service and offered £75 compensation for this.
Mrs P was unhappy at Vitalitys offer. She referred  her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In her opinion, Mrs P 
hadnt been prejudiced  by Vitalitys failure  to tell her sooner that her claim would be subject 
to a further excess. She considered its offer of £75 compensation was reasonable.
Mrs P didnt accept the adjudicators findings. She felt that Vitality should  have  told her 
during the telephone conversations she had between November 2017  and January  2018 
that a further excess was payable. She considered £75 was inadequate compensation for 
this and other service  failings.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Ref: DRN06286062Mrs Ps policy certificate states that there is an excess of £250 and that this is per person, 
per claim.  From this, I agree it is not immediately  obvious that a further  excess  might be 
payable in respect of a single course of treatment.
However, the policy certificate  makes clear that it is only a summary of the cover  and that to 
fully understand  the cover  she should refer to the policy terms. These terms explain that if 
treatment for the same condition has gone  on for more than a year then it will be regarded  
as a new claim and a further excess will apply. Im therefore satisfied that Vitality acted in 
accordance with the policy  terms by applying a further excess when assessing Mrs Ps claim 
for the treatment which took place on 11 November 2017.
Vitality wasnt  aware that Mrs P had undergone this treatment until it received the invoice 
some days  later. It therefore couldnt have warned her in advance about the further excess.  
So while Vitality arguably should have told Mrs P about this in the telephone conversations  it 
had with her over the following  weeks, I cant reasonably conclude  that Mrs P was 
prejudiced by this failure because the treatment had already taken place in any case.
Vitality has acknowledged  this failure, along  with its error in giving a wrong  email  address, 
and offered £75 compensation. I think this is reasonable compensation for the delay  and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs P.
Mrs P has also raised concerns about Vitalitys  late settlement of invoices from her 
consultant. Vitality has said that this was due to the way the consultant  submitted the 
invoices. But regardless of the reason, I think the settlement of these invoices is a matter  
between Vitality and the consultant. I see no reason why this should affect Mrs P.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0628606