K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr D, represented by Ms D an executor, complains about the way Barclays 
Bank UK PLC has dealt with an executors account, made it dormant  and required all three 
executors to approve  transactions when its previously allowed Ms D to carry them out on 
her own.
background
Barclays apologised in its final response  for its failings  when dealing with Ms D and for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. But it said the forms setting  up the executors account 
said the all three executors signatures  were needed  to honour cheques  and orders.  It 
apologised that the branch had previously  allowed  Ms D to carry out transfers without the 
other two executors. And it agreed this was an error. It also apologised for the level of 
service given and paid £100  compensation for this. 
Barclays also subsequently apologised for the way itd dealt with the accounts dormancy 
issue. And it offered  to increase its payment  of compensation to a total of £330.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld  as Barclays  had dealt fairly with the 
complaint. In summary he said:
The accounts terms and conditions said all three  executors  signatures were 
required for the bank  to honour  cheques and orders. Even though this had made Ms 
Ds life difficult Barclays was right to follow the terms of the account. They also say it 
can close an account if no transactions were  made for around two years.  So it wasnt  
unfair for Barclays to mark the account as dormant.
Barclays has said it previously allowed some transfers without  getting  the permission 
of the other signatories. It incorrectly followed its processes. Ms D has had to spend 
considerable time sorting things out and as the account relates  to her late fathers  
estate this has caused her distress. 
Barclays offer of a total of £330 compensation for its poor customer service and the 
distress caused is reasonable.
Ms D remains unhappy. She questions  why she was allowed  to transfer out of the account  a 
significant amount  of money. She doesnt  believe the executors agreed to all three of them 
needing to be there.  She thinks the banks  staff were checking a different document to the 
one Barclays has supplied. It wants fair for the account to be made dormant while  she was 
communicating with it to stop this happening.  It shouldve put a marker on the account to 
stop it being made dormant. Shes  asked  for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D has questioned what documents the branch  staff looked at when she was allowed to 
carry out transactions without authorisation from the other  two executors. But the only 
Ref: DRN04667672documents Barclays has and which its sent to us clearly say that when the account  was 
opened all three  executors  signatures will be required on cheques or for it to honour orders. 
Despite this Ms D, one of the executors, was allowed by Barclays  to carry out many 
transfers using  just her signature and sole authority. Barclays has accepted this was an error 
on its part. When it realised this error I think it acted appropriately by subsequently requiring 
all three executors signatures and authorisation. 
I also think that when  the account  wasnt used for a considerable period Barclays was 
entitled to make the account dormant in line with its normal  procedures even if Ms D was 
communicating with it about this. 
I realise that Barclays requirement to have all three  executors  authorisation or signatures 
was inconvenient for Ms D and the other  two executors, particularly as one is more  elderly. 
But I dont think Barclays did anything wrong by insisting on all three executors authority and 
details as this accords  with the signing authority and instruction  given  when the account was 
opened. That clearly  shows the executors agreed that they must all sign cheques or orders.
I have no doubt  Ms D has been involved  in a considerable amount of work  on behalf of the 
estate to resolve things.  But that is part and parcel  of an executors duties. That was no 
doubt frustrating  and stressful at times. But the simple fact is I dont think I can award her 
any compensation for this.
The estate  brings  this complaint and Ms D is one of its three  executors. It is the estate which  
is the consumer  and Barclays customer here.  And as its not possible for an estate to suffer 
distress, trouble  or upset  I cannot require Barclays to pay compensation to the estate for 
something it cannot experience.
We can only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and upset experienced by its 
customer not by a third party. For example we cant award compensation to executors or 
personal representatives who have brought a complaint by an estate. That includes Ms D in 
this case.
Furthermore all complainants  and their representatives spend  some time and experience 
some additional  inconvenience in dealing with a complaint and putting things right. We 
wouldnt generally recommend theyre compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can 
reasonably depart from this approach in this case. 
Consequently although Ive taken  note of Ms Ds submissions on this point I dont think  I can 
fairly or reasonably require Barclays to pay any compensation to the estate or to Ms D either 
personally or as executor  for distress and inconvenience as shed like.
Barclays has acknowledged  its failings and paid or offered the estate a total of £330  
compensation. Ms D thinks  this isnt enough. But taking everything into account and for the 
reasons outlined above, I dont think I can fairly  or reasonably require Barclays to pay the 
estate any more than this.
I simply leave  it to the executors to decide  if they now wish to accept Barclays  offer.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN04667673Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D as executor 
to the estate of Mr D to accept or reject  my decision before 4 November 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0466767