K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that AWP P&C SA declined  his claim against his annual, multi-trip travel
insurance policy. Mr Bs broker is helping him to bring his complaint.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 16 March  2020, 
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I wont  repeat that 
information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that AWP hadnt treated  Mr B fairly in 
declining the claim and what it should do to put matters right.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr B said he had nothing  further to add. AWP said it accepted  my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr B nor AWP has provided me with anything further on the complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision.  So, for 
the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that AWP acted fairly in declining  Mr Bs claim. 
To put matters right, AWP should deal with Mr Bs claim under the remaining terms of the 
policy. If the claim is valid, it should settle  the claim based on the proportion of premium Mr B 
paid compared  to what he would have paid if AWP had known of As medical  conditions.  
As Mr B has been kept out the use of any settlement payment, AWP should  also pay interest  
on any settlement, from the date of Mr Bs claim, to the date of payment. 
Ref: DRN01601652my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.  I now require  AWP P&C SA to:
Deal with Mr Bs claim under  the remaining terms of the policy and, if the claim 
is valid, settle it based on the proportion  of the premium Mr B paid compared to 
what he should have  paid.
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any settlement, from the date of Mr Bs 
claim to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AWP to take off tax from this interest. AWP must give
Mr B a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01601653extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr B complains that AWP P&C SA declined  his claim against his annual, multi-trip travel 
insurance policy. Mr Bs broker is helping him to bring his complaint.
background
The relevant  chronology  is as follows:            
 25 January 2018 Mr Bs policy   which included cover for members 
of his household - renewed
 October/November 2018 Mr Bs son, A, had symptoms/was diagnosed with 
osteomyelitis and received in-patient  treatment
 10 January 2019 Mr B booked  a family trip
 25 January 2019 Mr Bs policy  renewed
 29 January 2019 As GP referred him to a consultant for further  tests
 8 February 2019 As GP advised against travel
 16 February 2019 family trip start date
 24 February 2019 Mr B made a claim against his policy
 4 April 2019 Mr B declared three medical conditions relating to A and 
paid an additional  premium
 15 April 2019 AWP refused Mr Bs claim
AWP declined Mr Bs claim because Mr B hadnt declared As medical condition.
Mr B says that As illness was almost a year after the policy  start date and he innocently  
neglected to tell AWP about As ill-health and treatment. He says that the pain A suffered 
in late January 2019 wasnt a reoccurrence  of osteomyelitis. Mr B says that he 
subsequently told AWP about As health  conditions and it asked him to pay an additional 
premium. He wants AWP to pay his non-refundable accommodation cost, less the excess  
due under the policy.
One of our investigators looked  at what had happened. She didnt  think that AWP 
had treated Mr B unfairly.
Ref: DRN01601654Mr B didnt  agree with the investigator.  He said that the investigator had failed to take into 
account that hed paid premiums  in good  faith and that he was told that A was fit to fly after 
his initial  recovery. Mr Bs broker said that AWPs refusal was unjust. He said that the 
requirement to disclose  matters in the 12 months before booking a trip was deficient. 
Mr Bs broker said that AWP provided  full cover  after Mr B disclosed As medical  
conditions, so its not the case that AWP wouldnt have accepted the risk.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite  understandable that Mr B has strong feelings about this matter. He and 
his broker have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have read 
and considered. However, I trust that they will not take as a discourtesy  the fact that I 
focus on what I consider  the central  issue, which is, whether AWP acted in accordance 
with the policy terms and conditions and fairly in declining Mr Bs claim.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
Mr Bs claim arose during the policy term that started in January 2019.  The terms 
and conditions AWP have  provided  include the following:
Your existing medical or health conditions will not be covered unless they have 
been declared to and accepted by the insurer .
If you need to make a claim arising from a medical condition that has not been 
declared and accepted  by us, it is unlikely  that your claim  will be paid.
[]
It is very important that you read the following and declare any existing  medical 
conditions to us.
You will not be covered for any directly  or indirectly  related claims [] arising from the 
following if in the 12 months before taking out this insurance or booking your trip 
(whichever is the later) you:
a)have been  prescribed medication;
b)have received treatment or attended a medical practitioner for any medical 
condition;
c)have attended  a hospital  or a clinic as an out-patient  or in-patient;
d)have been  referred  for tests, investigations,  treatment, surgery  or are awaiting 
results;
e)Have been diagnosed as having  a terminal illness.
Ref: DRN01601655Unless
You have declared any existing medical  conditions to us and we have accepted cover.
The policy schedule included the following:
 *Please  refer to the Health Declaration  and Exclusions  in the policy  wording for the medical 
conditions (diseases, injuries or illnesses) that must be declared to and accepted by us.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that AWP has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly  and it shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably. I dont think  that AWP  
treated Mr B fairly and Ill explain  why.
When Mr B renewed the policy in January 2019, he was obliged to 
declare As medical conditions to AWP. Its common ground that he didnt 
do so.
Where a complaint  arises from non-disclosure of information important to an 
insurer, we look to see that the insurer was clear about what  it wanted to know  
when the policy  was taken out. We check  that the information given  would 
affect whether  a policy was offered or its terms. And we check whether the 
policyholder has taken reasonable care to provide accurate  information. If not, 
we consider whether they did so deliberately,  recklessly or carelessly.
I think that AWP made it clear  that Mr B should disclose medical conditions. 
The warning on the policy  schedule on renewal and the terms and conditions  
are clear.
After AWP  refused Mr Bs claim,  he declared three medical conditions for A. 
AWP accepted cover for those  conditions on payment of an additional 
premium. So, the available evidence suggests  its more  likely than not that 
AWP would have  done the same  if Mr B had disclosed As medical conditions  
earlier.
I dont think that Mr B took reasonable care to provide AWP with accurate 
information. He says that he innocently neglected to tell AWP about As
ill-health and treatment.  Its for AWP to show that Mr B failed to declare  
important information  deliberately or recklessly. Ive seen  nothing to indicate 
that his omission was deliberate or reckless. I think that it was merely careless.
Our established approach when an insurer would still have offered a policy 
following disclosure of relevant information  but would have charged more  for it 
is to direct the insurer to deal with the claim under the remaining terms of the 
policy. If the claim is valid, the insurer should  settle the claim based on the 
proportion of premium the policyholder  paid compared to what they should 
have paid. I think  AWP should do that here.
Mr B has been kept out of the use of any settlement payment. So, AWP should  
also pay interest on any settlement, from the date of Mr Bs claim,  to the date 
of payment.
Ref: DRN01601656my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold
Mr Bs complaint. I intend to direct AWP P&C SA to:
Deal with Mr Bs claim under  the remaining terms of the policy and, if the claim 
is valid, settle it based on the proportion  of the premium Mr B paid compared to 
what he should have  paid.
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any settlement, from the date of Mr Bs 
claim to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AWP to take off tax from this interest. AWP must give
Mr B a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN0160165