K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited  wont cover a claim he 
made under a motor Breakdown Recovery  policy. 
background
Mr S bought a breakdown recovery policy with Acromas in March 2018. He called  for 
roadside assistance in May and June 2018. 
Acromas said it wouldnt  meet his claim for repairs to the head gasket of his car because 
hed previously sought assistance  in February  2018.  Acromas said the subsequent 
breakdowns were due to a known problem related to the head gasket  identified in 
February 2018. So Acromas excluded cover  for known problems under his policy.  
Mr S asked us to look at his complaint.  Our investigator thought Acromas had acted 
reasonably and in line with the policy.
Mr S didnt agree. He said the issue in February 2018 was not related to the head gasket. In 
May 2018 the issue was a water pump problem. He said the patrol agent advised him to 
drive his car to a garage. He believes Acromas didnt meet  his claim because the repairs  
were expensive. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it.
It isnt unusual for a breakdown recovery policy to have exclusions. Mr Ss policy with 
Acromas says it will not cover:
Any costs for repairs following a mechanical or electrical failure if:
a: The faults existed prior to the purchase of the cover: or
b: The failure  was caused by faults,  which you were  aware of prior to the start of your 
journey on which the Breakdown  occurred.
Mr S had breakdown  cover through his bank before he bought his policy  with Acromas in 
March 2018. The agent who provided his breakdown cover  before March 2018 was the 
same agent  Acromas used. 
Mr S had sought assistance from the agent in February 2018   a couple  of weeks before  he 
bought his policy with Acromas. This report said that the coolant system  was completely dry 
and that Mr S had driven his car for about ten minutes with an engine  warning light about the 
cooling system.  The patrol agent  wrote that it was a possible  head gasket failure.  The 
coolant was temporarily  topped up and Mr S was advised to take his car to a garage. 
Ref: DRN07152332In May 2018  Mr S sought assistance. A patrol agent  reported that a water pump had worn 
and he carried out a temporary  repair.  The report read: 
carried out temporary  repair followed to home  address need garage attention. 
Member been driving with issue and aware of other  damage that may cause
Just over a week later  in June 2018  Mr S sought roadside assistance  again as there was 
a problem with the coolant  running out and an engine warning light for the same problem. 
The patrol agent reported that the coolant  was topped up with water. He checked  the 
thermostat opening  and found slight smoke  from the exhaust  oil cap. He advised of a 
possible head gasket  issue  and for Mr S to follow up at a garage. 
I appreciate that Mr S says he took his car to a garage before the breakdown in June 2018 
and it didnt identify  a problem with the head  gasket.  So he believes Acromas  should now 
pay for the head  gasket repairs. But I think Acromas has shown that it was reasonable to 
decline Mr Ss claim. A patrol agent identified the reason  for the breakdown in June 2018 
was due to an existing fault. So I dont  think it should meet Mr Ss claim for repairs to his car. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0715233