K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Liverpool  Victoria Financial  Services Limited (LV) unfairly declined to 
cover part of a claim he made  under his personal  sick pay policy.
background
In April 2016 Mr M took out an LV personal sick pay policy. In the event of a successful claim 
for either sickness or an accident,  the policy provides a benefit of around £1,000 a month.
On 10 January 2018 Mr M was violently assaulted. He attended a hospital emergency  room 
with visible  bruising on his face and said his shoulder had been  injured. The medical 
personnel reviewed him and plastered his eyebrow, after which  he went home.
Mr M then went to stay in his hometown  abroad where he sought treatment and had his 
condition regularly reviewed. He was initially signed off by his GP for a month  on 25 January 
2018 as he said he unable to perform physical  work  as a result of his injuries. Mr M was then 
signed off on a monthly basis  until June 2018  when they said hed be ready to return  on 
27 July 2018.
Around the time of the attack Mr M made a claim on his LV personal sick pay insurance 
policy. In August 2018 wrote to Mr M to say it had now reached  a decision about his claim. It 
said it had written to Mr Ms GP on several occasions to understand how his injuries 
prevented him from working. But it said when it did hear back from the GP, the information 
provided didnt  show why Mr M had been  unable to work for longer than a week.
Following some back and forth, in December 2018  LV said it had reconsidered  his claim and 
would pay it up until 23 January 2018.  But it said it wouldnt  provide cover  for any later 
period. LV said the policy would provide a benefit if Mr M was too unwell  to carry out the 
main tasks of his insured occupation.  And it said after having its technical  team  and medical 
officer review his medical documents and certificates, it didnt believe these objectively 
showed he was unable to perform his duties as a result of any injury  or condition. 
LV also referenced information found on Mr Ms social  media account, including being at the 
top of a mountain, attending  various  concerts and social activities. LV said this appeared to 
show Mr M was capable  of moving in a way that was inconsistent with the medical  advice 
and symptoms hed reported. Mr M said the photos  and videos LV highlighted didnt 
demonstrate he was capable of work, which was the significance  difference between the 
activities hed taken  part in and his job  which involves lifting crates.  
Mr M was unhappy so brought his complaint to our service and an investigator  looked into 
what happened. She considered whether the medical evidence provided  showed Mr M had 
been prevented  by his injuries  from performing the essential duties of his occupation.
The investigator said the initial X-ray  indicated  the injuries were not long term and the 
treatment plan was pain management and shoulder exercise. She said the doctors  advice 
following this was to rest, but said it seemed Mr M then carried out physically demanding 
social activities. Overall the investigator  agreed  with LVs findings  that there wasnt  enough 
evidence to support  why Mr M was unable to work, and the information provided was 
inconsistent. So she said LV acted  fairly  by only covering the claim up until 23 January 2018. 
Ref: DRN08444722Mr M disagreed and said hed been  signed off by multiple GPs, and he said the activities he 
took part in were not physically demanding and helpful to his recovery. But the investigator  
said these GP notes didnt support why he was unable to work  so didnt change her mind. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Its not the role of our service to decide  on medical  matters. Instead Ive considered  whether 
LV has acted fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Ms claim, based on the evidence  
and medical opinions available.
Mr Ms policy is called personal sick pay insurance. And its designed  to cover him in the 
event hes too unwell  to carry out the main  tasks of his occupation and hes not doing  any 
other paid or unpaid  work. And by main tasks  it says things which couldnt reasonably be left 
out of his role or changed by him or his employer.
In this case LV has accepted the claim for the first several weeks, but not for the following 
period of around six months. It said this is because the medical documents  and certificates 
Mr M has provided arent objective evidence to show  he was unable  to perform his duties. 
So Ive looked  at available evidence its relied on when  reaching this conclusion.  
Within Mr Ms claim form he said hed suffered  a bruised chest, shoulder, collarbone, and 
broken eyebrow. A section below this asked Mr M to explain how this stopped him from 
working, which he said he couldnt move both his arms and had dizziness and headaches. 
Ive also reviewed a report from the A&E department completed soon after the attack. This 
says Mr M reported left sided neck and shoulder pain reduced shoulder movement [sic]. 
The notes say that Mr Ms vital signs were  normal, that he had swelling around his face, and 
reduced range of movements for his left shoulder.  But it says following x-rays on his 
shoulder and face, they found no fractures or evidence of any bone injuries.
The notes go on to say a laceration on the left side of Mr Ms forehead  wound  was cleaned 
and closed. And it says Mr M was discharged  and advised to take painkillers  and complete 
shoulder exercises.
LV said the report showed Mr Ms injuries were  in keeping with an assault, but werent major. 
And the view of its own medical experts was these injuries wouldve prevented Mr M from 
working for two weeks at most  so it agreed  to pay the claim for this time but no longer.
Having read these carefully myself  I agree these notes do not indicate  or suggest that Mr M 
had suffered a long term physical injury that would prevent him carrying out the main  tasks 
of his occupation.
Mr M has provided a copy of his GPs notes from the time he was outside of the UK, and its 
not disputed by LV that on each  visit (until June 2018) he was signed  off for a month  at a 
time. And on his return to the UK Mr Ms own UK GP also provided  a document  signing him 
off across this period  based on the notes hed seen.
Ref: DRN08444723Ive read each of these  notes, and they reference pain in Mr Ms left shoulder when he 
moves his arm alongside suffering headaches and having spells  of dizziness. So Im 
satisfied Mr Ms shoulder and arm was discussed when he spoke  to his GP. But I dont think 
this is enough  on its own to show Mr Ms injury was severe enough to cause him to be 
unable to carry out the main tasks of his occupation   especially considering there  was no 
indication of a fracture or broken bones.  This also appears to go against Mr Ms comments 
within his claim form as he indicated he couldnt move both of his arms  not just his left arm.
Mr M has provided invoices that he says show he was receiving treatment following the 
assault at his own expense. And this does  indicate he was paying for and receiving 
treatment, but this in itself doesnt evidence that Mr M was unable to carry out his role as a 
result of his injury or why he was prevented from doing so.
LV has also highlighted that the reports from the GP dont seem  in keeping with Mr Ms 
actual activity, based on his social media.  For example, it said Mr Ms physical activity of 
walking up a mountain, or attending music  concerts wasnt in keeping with what  hed 
reported to his GP before and after these events. 
I agree  that some  of these  activities (such  as the mountain climbing  and concerts)  dont 
appear to be in keeping with his reports of being unable to move his arms, headaches and 
dizziness or were in line with the resting regime hed be asked to carry out.
Mr M has given  his reasons as to why he believes these activities were  beneficial to his 
health and were not physically strenuous. He also said UKI should focus on the arm and 
shoulder pain hed suffered as this was the issue that had stopped him working. LV said it 
wouldnt ignore  other  symptoms that were inconsistent with his reporting,  especially as hed 
given these reasons  as to why he was unable to work.
Ive considered Mr Ms points, but throughout the claim  he did report  a number of symptoms 
as reasons he was unable  to work.  So Id expect LV to consider all of these  conditions  when 
looking at his claim. And I think LV acted reasonably by factoring these concerns and 
inconsistencies into its overall decision.
Mr M has also highlighted a document  signed  by his orthopaedist. He says this shows his 
return to work would be possible from late July 2018  only and Ive taken this into account. 
And while I have placed  weight on the orthopaedists opinion,  its not particularly detailed 
and it hasnt changed my mind in this case. I say this as the initial A&E report showed no 
fractures or broken bones and he was soon discharged after being seen.
LV also provided  its own medical opinions that suggested Mr Ms injuries wouldve only led 
to around a two week period of absence  which I found  to  be more  persuasive in light of the 
available evidence. Considering this alongside  everything Ive mentioned above, and the 
inconsistencies in Mr Ms reporting, Im satisfied LVs decision to only pay the claim until 
23 January 2018  is fair and reasonable and Im not asking it to do anything  further.
Ref: DRN08444724my final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0844472