K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that hes had his excess and premium unfairly  increased  on his home  
insurance by Avantia  Insurance Limited (Avantia).  
background
In October  2018 Mr R bought his home insurance online through Avantia. Avantia  was acting 
as an intermediary, in that it was selling and administering the policy, rather than providing  
the insurance itself.  Avantia has explained  to us that it has fully delegated authority from the 
insurance provider  to assess risk and set premiums based on that assessment. So its 
responsible for the terms and conditions, including the premium, attached to Mr Rs policy.
Part of the online application  process required Mr R to tell Avantia whether  hed made any 
insurance claims over the previous five years  and how much the claim was for.
Mr R said hed made a claim for damage  caused by escaping  water and it cost £5,000. 
Avantia took this information into account and sold him a policy. 
A little while  later Mr R made  a claim after hed been burgled. Checks were carried out on 
the information Mr R had provided  when he bought  the policy, and Avantia discovered the 
claim Mr R said cost £5,000 was actually recorded  on industry databases as £18,820. Hed 
also not told Avantia  about an earlier claim for about  £500.
Avantia said it thought  Mr R had been careless  when  hed provided  the information  about the 
more recent  (higher value)  claim.  It said, based  on the information it now had, that it would 
only have provided  insurance at a higher cost and with a much higher excess amount (the 
amount he had to pay before the insurer contributed  to a claim). So it asked  Mr R to both 
pay the additional premium and accept  the new excess limit  both of which were backdated 
to the start of cover.   
Mr R complained that this wasnt fair  in particular  that the excess  was too high, but Avantia 
didnt change its stance.
Mr R brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt  think  the complaint should be 
upheld. He thought Mr R could have checked the value of the claim when completing his 
application. And he thought Avantia had increased the excess  and premium in line with its 
underwriting guidelines,  which was fair.
Mr R remains  unhappy about this. He doesnt object in principle to the increase  in the 
premium, which  is just under £90, but he says no-one would accept an excess  of £9,250 as 
he believes  that would exclude most claims. He says he cant  progress his current  claim 
unless he accepts the new limits. And that also means he cant  buy cover from another 
provider  because  he has a claim outstanding. 
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN04866222Im not going  to uphold this complaint, and Ill explain why.
When Mr R bought his policy,  the relevant law applicable to his application was the 
Consumer Insurance  Disclosures and Misrepresentations Act 2012 (CIDRA). Amongst other 
things, CIDRA allows an intermediary such as Avantia to void (that is cancel and treat a 
customer as never insured) a policy when it discovers whats  called  a qualifying 
misrepresentation. It also has the option of amending the policy  so different terms and 
conditions apply to any outstanding claim, and, if the premium would have been  higher, the 
insurer need only pay a proportionate amount of that claim.
Avantia says Mr R misrepresented his circumstances when he applied  for insurance. It says 
he did that because  he didnt take reasonable care to answer accurately the questions it 
asked. It says it could have voided  his policy, but instead agreed to continue cover if Mr R 
paid an additional  premium and accepted increased  compulsory excesses in some  parts  of 
his policy. 
For Avantia to successfully argue Mr R made a qualifying  misrepresentation it needs  to show 
that it asked a clear  question, what Mr Rs answer was and if it was incorrect.  It also needs  
to show me that Mr R misrepresented his circumstances recklessly  or deliberately   or, in 
this case, carelessly.
Mr R was asked to say if hed made any claims in the previous five years  and what  the value 
was. The question, which Ive seen, was clear. Mr R answered yes  and said there was one 
claim worth £5,000. He described the claim  as being for escape of water.
The correct  information  was that hed made  two claims.  One was for under £500 (a theft 
claim), just under five years previously. The other was for £18,820, and recorded in 2017  as 
accidental damage  (presumably after the escape of water Mr R mentioned).  
Avantia says Mr R was careless when providing  the information as the value of the 2017  
claim was much higher  than he said and he didnt include one claim. Its gone on to say that 
if it had received the correct information  at the time, it would still have  insured Mr R, but both 
the premium and the terms  and conditions would be different.  It says thats because of the 
high value claim in 2017.
Mr R says he forgot the smaller claim as it was several years earlier. He also says it would 
have taken too much time for him to try to check the value of the 2017 claim.  He says if hed 
done so hed have lost the progress hed already made in the application he was making. So 
he instead put down what he thought it might have cost. 
I accept that Mr R forgot the smaller  claim  and Avantia hasnt factored it into the revised 
terms and conditions. So I dont  need to say anything more about  that.
However, Im not persuaded by Mr Rs explanation  why he didnt check  the information  he 
was providing about  the more recent claim.  Mr R is required to take reasonable care when 
providing information like this. I dont think its unreasonable for him to have contacted  his 
previous insurer to find out the value of the claim  even if it did mean  he had to spend a 
little more time making sure he was providing the right figures.
I do understand that Mr R hadnt arranged the repair  work himself, but I think that in those 
circumstances its more  important to check the claim  value, not less. Thats  because  hed 
Ref: DRN04866223likely have less certainty about  the cost. And I think thats been  shown to be the case as his 
estimate of £5,000  is significantly  less than the claim value of £18,820. 
I think Mr Rs actions do fall into the category of careless misrepresentation.
Mr R also says that even  if he had been careless,  the new terms and conditions arent fair. 
Ive thought carefully about this.
The Act sets out the remedy for Avantia  when  it discovers theres been a careless 
misrepresentation and this is based  on what it would have done  had the consumer taken 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. 
The options  for Avantia, where theres  an outstanding claim (as there is here)  are:
To void (or avoid) the policy  in its entirety.  That means cancelling Mr Rs policy and 
treating him as never  being insured. This option is available  to Avantia if it can show  
it wouldnt have insured Mr R at all if it had had the correct information. 
If it would have  insured Mr R, but charged  a different premium, Avantia can work out 
what it would have  charged Mr R if it had had all the correct information, and then   
Mr Rs claim would be paid on a proportionate basis. So if Mr R had paid (for 
example) 80% of the revised premium the insurer would only have to pay 80% of the 
claim. If Avantia wanted to, it could allow  Mr R to pay any increased  premium  in 
this complaint about £90  and then the insurer could pay the entire claim. Wed 
normally say that was a fair offer if, by paying  the additional premium,  Mr R benefited 
from a higher payment as part of his claim.
Avantia is also allowed to apply the terms and conditions (other  than the premium) it 
would have applied  to the policy  if it had been given the correct information. Avantia 
said it would have  applied  an excess  of £9,250  to Mr Rs policy.  
Avantia sent us details of the system  it uses to calculate premiums  and excesses, and this 
has calculated the increased premium  and excess in line with the new figures Mr R was 
given - £87.86  and £9,250  respectively. So I think its applied the increases correctly.
I dont think Avantia could  void the policy  as its said it would have provided cover, albeit 
on very different  terms. But it does  seem it agreed  that Mr R could cancel it, as hes been 
talking to Avantia  about getting quoted from other insurers.  That seems  fair to me: it also 
means Mr R wont  have  to declare this if he buys a policy  from another  provider. 
The difficulty  is that Mr R has an outstanding claim and cant progress it, and thats  stopping  
him from buying a policy elsewhere. He says thats because the insurer wont  progress the 
claim until hes paid the additional premium and accepted the new excess.  I cant  comment  
specifically on what the insurer has done, because this complaint is about Avantia, not the 
insurer. Mr R could withdraw the claim  although  it will likely  remain on record,  even after 
its been withdrawn,  and hell need to tell future insurers about it even if theres no payment.
I do understand how frustrating this is for Mr R. But Im satisfied Avantia has acted 
reasonably when applying both the regulations imposed by CIDRA and its own guidelines to 
Mr Rs insurance,  now it has the correct information  about his previous claims. 
Ref: DRN04866224I accept that its likely Mr R wouldnt have bought the policy  if hed known the increased 
excess amount. I cant say Avantia is responsible for that, as it was Mr Rs actions that led to 
it basing the premium  and excess  on the wrong  information. 
Im afraid that leaves  Mr R with difficult choices. He can accept the excess  and progress his 
current claim  although  he may not receive any payment.  Whether or not he chooses  to pay 
the additional premium to avoid a potential part payment is his choice. Or he can withdraw  
the existing claim and cancel the existing policy, should he decide  thats  the best way 
forward.
Id expect Avantia  to accommodate Mr Rs decision  once he makes  it. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0486622