K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ls representative, her husband, Mr L, complains on her behalf that she suffered a 
financial loss because  Interactive Investor  Services Limited (the business) failed to give her 
a call back about a corporate action in relation  to Premier Oil (the company).   
background
I note an initial complaint was referred to our service  about the business failure to call Mrs L 
back about corporate action.  
In relation to that complaint Mrs L received £130 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
This complaint is about the losses Mr L says Mrs L suffered as a result of the business 
failure to call back.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. He 
said Mrs L hadnt suffered  a financial  loss and therefore wasnt entitled  ay compensation.  In 
short he said:
Mrs L was sent a corporate  action letter dated  8 June 2017  detailing  options open 
to her and referring her to their website  for further details. 
The company  decided the terms and conditions and the business simply notified its 
customers. 
Despite what Mr L says, the business explained  how things worked over the phone.  It 
wasnt required to provide the full details which were available  on the website.  
Mrs L hasnt suffered a financial loss. Once  the conditions  are met shell be notified 
by the business accordingly.
Mrs L is free to contact the company directly for any further  details. 
Mr L disagreed with the investigators conclusion and maintains Mrs L is entitled  to £50 
compensation. Hes asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr L says Im not persuaded that 
any compensation is due to Mrs L. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs Ls strength of feeling about this matter.
 
Mr L has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered very carefully. However, I hope  Mrs L wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
Ref: DRN00089032The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr L and the business, and reach what  I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Ive seen nothing  to persuade me that the business  was under an obligation  to explain the 
full conditions which needed to be met before any cash payment could be paid to Mrs L. I 
know that the business explained how things worked and signposted Mrs L to the company 
website for more details.  
In the circumstances, I think if Mrs L required more information it was available to her. If 
there were issues accessing or viewing the information on the website she had the option of 
contacting the company for full terms and conditions. In any case I dont think thats the 
business responsibility. So, on balance I dont think what the business  did was 
unreasonable. 
I also dont think it was unreasonable of the business not to read through the official  
document or the corporate action notice to Mrs L.  
 
Even if I was to find that the business  was under an obligation to provide Mrs L with the full 
conditions/read the documents  to her, and failed to do so  which  I dont  Im unable  to 
safely say that shes  suffered  a financial loss. Therefore I dont think  in this instance shes 
entitled to any compensation. 
In light of the earlier complaint I also dont think any compensation for trouble and upset is 
relevant in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mrs Ls frustration, but on the face of the available evidence, Im unable to 
uphold this complaint and give her what she wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0008903