K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
PSA Finance UK Limited, trading as Peugeot Financial Services,  was misrepresented  to her. 
She also complains about the amount that shes been charged by Peugeot Financial 
Services when the agreement ended. Shes  being helped  with her complaint by her 
husband.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mrs C under  a hire purchase agreement with Peugeot Financial 
Services that she signed in March 2015. She says that she wanted  a car with an automatic 
gearbox and was told by the dealer that the car that was to be supplied to her was an 
automatic  but she says that it isnt an automatic. She had some  issues  with the car and 
she says that she was advised in March 2017 that the car wasnt  an automatic.  Her husband 
contacted Peugeot Financial Services  but he wasnt  authorised  on the account so it 
couldnt discuss the issue with him. She contacted it again in April 2018 when her agreement  
was ending.  
Mrs C was contacted  by a third party, acting on behalf of Peugeot Financial Services, to 
arrange for the car to be collected. The car didnt have a valid MOT test certificate so she 
was told that it would have to collect the car on a low-loader for which she would be charged 
£275 plus VAT. The car was collected  from her in May 2018 and it was inspected by the 
third party. The inspection  report says that the service  book  was missing so the third party  
didnt know whether the car had been  serviced,  the car didnt have a valid MOT  test 
certificate and it identified damage to the car. The cars mileage was recorded  as being 
21,144 miles and charges totalling £1,244.49 were recommended. 
Peugeot Financial Services charged Mrs C £330 for the collection, the £1,244.49 
recommended by the third party and £157.20  for excess mileage charges. She complained  
to it about the charges and that the car had been misrepresented to her. It agreed to remove  
the £122 charge for damage to the left front door and to reduce  the other charges 
recommended by the third party (other than the £54 charge for the missing MOT test 
certificate) by 25% to £801.37   so the total amount due from her was £1,342.57. It said that 
the car has as electronic gearbox system  (which  means that there was automatic gearbox 
with no clutch pedal) and that it understood that that had been  discussed with the dealer.
Mrs C wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this service.  She said that the car 
has been terrible to drive which has been  very stressful and sometimes  scary  so she 
believes that Peugeot  Financial Services  should refund 15% of the payments that shes  
made for the car as recompense for the deliberate mis-selling of the car and the three  years  
of traumatic driving hassle that shes had to experience (less the £497.49  that she accepted  
was due from her).
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. She said that 
Mrs C was first made aware that the car was a semi-automatic in March 2017 but 
continued to drive it, exceeding  the mileage limit, until the agreement ended  when she was 
sent an invoice  for the charges which shes now contesting and says that the car was mis-
sold to her. So she said that she couldnt  conclude that a misrepresentation had occurred. 
She said that she was unable  to ascertain that the cars bumper was dented  when the car 
was collected  from Mrs C  and Peugeot Financial Services had agreed  to remove  that 
Ref: DRN04700262charge  which reduced the balance on her account  to £1,267.57  which she considered to 
be fair and reasonable.
Mrs C has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Shes provided 
detailed information  in response  to the adjudicators recommendation in a letter  to the 
adjudicator, a document setting out the errors and mistakes that she says have been made 
by the adjudicator, an appeal letter to the ombudsman, a timeline of events and extracts  
from motoring reviews  about the gearbox. And Mrs Cs husband has provided  an additional 
document for the attention of the ombudsman in which  he describes the impact that he says 
these events have  had on Mrs Cs health.
Mrs C says that she accepts the collection charge of £330,  the charge for the missing  MOT  
certificate of £54, the revised damage  charges of £357.88 (£260 for the wheels, £60.49  for 
the mirrors and £48 for the quarter panel) and the excess mileage charge of £157.20. But 
she says that, after the last service, the dealer didnt return  the service book which  she didnt 
notice. She says that the dealer was closing down  and there  wouldve been  no opportunity to 
recover it if shed noticed that it was missing.  
She says that the car was misrepresented to her, that she was induced  into entering into the 
hire purchase agreement by the misrepresentation and she wouldnt  have  entered  into the 
agreement if the car hadnt been misrepresented to her. She says that she should receive 
compensation of £1,606.20 for the misrepresentation from which the agreed charges of 
£899.08 should be deducted  so she claims £707.22 from Peugeot Financial  Services.
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mrs C and to Peugeot Financial Services on 3 March 2020. In my provisional decision I said 
as follows:
Mrs C has accepted liability for the collection charge of £330, the charge for the 
missing MOT certificate of £54, the revised  damage  charges of £357.88 and the 
excess mileage charge of £157.20. I consider those charges to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances so I wont be considering them any further (other  
than as set out below).
Mrs C says that the car was serviced  and that the service book wasnt  returned after 
the third service. The dealer has stopped trading  so hasnt  been able to provide any 
further information about the services. Peugeot Financial Services hasnt provided 
any other evidence  to show that the car wasnt serviced. I consider it to be more  
likely than not that the car was serviced  so Im not persuaded  that the three charges 
of £200 for missed  services are fair or reasonable in these  circumstances. But the 
service book wasnt with the car when it was collected on behalf of Peugeot  Financial 
Services. So, subject to my further comments below, I find that the £25 charge for the 
missing service book is fair and reasonable. So I consider that the total amount  due 
from Mrs C is £924.08.
I consider it to be clear  that Mrs C wanted an automatic  car. Shes  provided  a 
recording to show that the dealer said that the car was an automatic. But Im not 
persuaded that the car is an automatic. Peugeot  Financial Services said in its final 
response letter to Mrs C that the car isnt an automatic  model (and that none of the 
models in that range  were  automatic  at the time) and that the car has as electronic 
Ref: DRN04700263gearbox system (which  means that there  was automatic gearbox  with no clutch 
pedal). 
So I consider it to be more likely than not that the car was misrepresented  to Mrs C 
and that she was induced into entering  into the hire purchase agreement  by that 
misrepresentation. Mrs C says that she complained  to the dealer about issues with 
the car without success. She says that she was advised  in March 2017  that the car 
wasnt an automatic. Her husband contacted Peugeot Financial Services  in July 2017  
but he wasnt authorised on the account so it couldnt  discuss the issue with him.
Mrs C was able to use the car for more  than three  years and was able to drive more 
than 21,000 miles in it during that time (which  exceeded the annual mileage limit of 
6,000 miles that was set out in the agreement). She says that the car has been 
terrible to drive which has been very stressful  and sometimes scary and that she 
should be compensated for traumatic driving hassle that shes  had to experience.  
She now says that the compensation for the misrepresentation should be £1,606.20.
Peugeot Financial Services had supplied the car to Mrs C. If the gearbox was 
causing her as much distress and inconvenience as she says that it was, I consider 
that it would  be reasonable to expect her to have done more  to contact it about the 
misrepresentation after she was advised  in March 2017 that the car didnt have an 
automatic gearbox. Peugeot Financial Services'  system notes show that her husband 
contacted it in July 2017  but he wasnt authorised to discuss her account because  
the agreement  was in her name. And the system notes show that no further contact 
was made  with Peugeot Financial Services until April 2018 when the agreement was 
ending. Mrs C had been in contact with the manufacturers UK representative  but 
not with Peugeot Financial Services. She couldve contacted  it or her husband 
couldve written a letter for her to send to it if she wanted to continue with her 
complaint at that time.  So Im not persuaded that compensation of £1,606.20  for the 
misrepresentation is justified in these  circumstances.
As compensation for the misrepresentation I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Peugeot  Financial Services to waive the charges that its made  for the 
damage to the car, the missing service book and because the car didnt have an 
MOT certificate.  That would  mean  that Mrs C still has to pay £157.20 for the excess 
mileage and £330 for the collection charge  a total of £487.20  and I consider that 
to be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances.
So subject to any further representations by any of Mrs C, her husband and Peugeot 
Financial Services, my provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold  this complaint in 
part.
Mrs C has responded to my provisional  decision in detail and says, in summary,  that she 
should receive compensation of £2,618.85 for the misrepresentation of the car less the 
£487.20 for the end of contract  charges  so her claim for compensation from Peugeot  
Financial Services is £2,131.65. She says that if I dont agree that thats fair and reasonable 
she will issue a claim in the county  court against Peugeot Financial  Services  for that amount.
my findings
Ref: DRN04700264Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments (including in particular Mrs Cs 
response to my provisional  decision) to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded that the evidence justifies  a change my provisional 
decision. I consider  that the car was misrepresented to Mrs C for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision.
Mrs C has previously accepted liability for the collection charge of £330, the charge for the 
missing MOT certificate of £54, the revised  damage  charges of £357.88 and the excess 
mileage charge of £157.20. I consider that it was fair and reasonable for Peugeot Financial 
Services to also charge her £25 for the missing service book when the car was returned  to 
her. 
But, as compensation for the misrepresentation and for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I consider  that it would be fair and reasonable  in these circumstances for Peugeot  
Financial Services to waive the charges that its made for the damage  to the car, the missing 
service book and because the car didnt have  an MOT certificate. That totals  £436.88 and 
means that Mrs C would owe Peugeot Financial Services  a total of £487.20 (£330 for the 
collection charge  and £157.20 for the excess mileage charges). 
I consider that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But because  of the health 
issues from which Mrs C has been  suffering, this service has asked Peugeot  Financial 
Services to consider writing-off those charges. It has agreed to cancel  the remaining balance  
of £487.20 from Mrs Cs account in full and final settlement of the complaint in light of the 
medical issues that have  been brought to its attention. I consider that to be appropriate in 
these circumstances.  Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require 
Peugeot Financial Services to pay any other compensation to Mrs C  or to take any other 
action in response to her complaint.
my decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I order PSA Finance UK Limited, 
trading as Peugeot Financial Services, to write-off  the outstanding balance of Mrs Cs 
account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0470026