K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way Ageas Insurance Limited handled a claim on his car insurance 
policy following damage to his car.
background
Mr B says he was driving along an A road when his bonnet flew up, smashing  the 
windscreen and causing damage  to the front of the car. He contacted a roadside recovery 
company but it said Mr Bs car had not broken down and the incident was not therefore 
covered under his policy. It said he should  contact  his car insurance company. Mr B couldnt 
remember the name of his insurance company and called another  company, a broker,  
(company C), who transferred Mr Bs call to Ageas. Mr B says Ageas told him that as his car 
was able to move, it wasnt  its responsibility to recover his car. Mr B contacted two 
windscreen repair companies but as neither could repair his windscreen that day, he 
arranged and paid for his car to be recovered himself.
Mr B complained to Ageas about the way hed been  treated.  He said he was left stranded on 
a busy road at night  and he didnt feel as though hed received the service  hed paid for. 
Ageas arranged for his windscreen  to be repaired and accepted the claim for damage to the 
car. It initially  said that responsibility for the lack of roadside assistance lay with company C, 
as it couldnt find any record of a call being  transferred  to Ageas. However, it subsequently 
apologised to Mr B for the miscommunication,  reimbursed him for the cost of the roadside 
recovery and paid him £50 for the inconvenience  caused.
Mr B remained unhappy  and approached this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She noted that Ageas had tried to establish whether company C had transferred 
the call to Ageas but, despite  extensive  searches, no call could be found. She thought  it had 
therefore been company Cs responsibility to ensure  the call had been correctly  transferred 
to Ageas.  She thought  Ageas had done what it could when it had been made aware of the 
incident.
As Mr B remained unhappy, the complaint was passed to me to make  a decision. I didnt 
agree with all of the investigators findings. So I sent a provisional decision to Mr B and 
Ageas to explain why I intended to come to a different outcome to the investigator. Both 
Mr B and Ageas accepted my provisional  decision.  As such, my findings  and decision below 
are substantially the same as set out in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to a different 
conclusion to our investigator.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what  I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and wider 
circumstances.
Its not been possible to listen to the call Mr B said he made to Ageas on the day of the 
incident as it says it cant find any record of it. Ageas questioned  whether that call was made 
at all and thought instead that company C transferred the call to a windscreen repair 
Ref: DRN05302622company. But having  listened to the call from company  C, its clear  the call was transferred 
to Ageas.  I havent  been able to listen to the subsequent conversation Mr B had with Ageas 
but I have no reason  to doubt Mr Bs account, which is that he was told by Ageas it couldnt 
help him as his car could still move.
Mr B says his car was undriveable because the windscreen was completely shattered. The 
photographs hes provided show the extent  of the damaged windscreen and it would 
certainly have been unsafe to drive. In his call with Company C he makes it clear hes in 
some distress and he would need recovery. The agent who put the call through to Ageas  
relayed that same information to the agent at Ageas and, when prompted, also said that 
Mr B wanted  to make a claim.  Mr Bs policy covered him for loss or damage to his car 
caused by accidental damage. 
Although Ive not been able to listen to Mr Bs conversation with Ageas, on balance,  I think 
its more likely than not he gave them information  that should have been  enough  to prompt 
them to accept his claim and take action  to help him. Had it done that, Mr B wouldnt have 
needed to arrange the recovery  of the vehicle  himself and might not have had to wait quite 
so long at the side of a busy road at night. 
When Mr B approached Ageas again, it arranged  for the windscreen to be repaired and 
came to an agreement with him about  the damage  to the car. It also reimbursed him for the 
costs of recovering his car. So I dont think  theres any remaining  financial loss to Mr B.
Ageas also agreed  to pay Mr B £50 for the inconvenience it had caused.  But I dont think 
that amount  fully reflects the impact on him of its poor handling  of his claim. Its clear  from 
the evidence that Mr B was in a great deal of distress after the incident  and Ageas could  and 
should have done more  to help him. Its failure to do so exacerbated an already stressful  
situation. I think a total of £150 would more suitably  reflect the impact on Mr B and Ageas  
should therefore pay another £100 in addition to the £50 theyve  already  offered.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and ask Ageas to pay Mr B a 
total of £150 for the trouble and upset it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.  
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0530262