K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase  agreement with 
Black Horse  Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
background
A used  car was supplied to Mrs W under a hire purchase agreement with Black  Horse that 
she electronically signed in November 2017.  The car was about six and a half years old and 
its mileage was shown  on the agreement as being  100,324. Mrs W complained to Black  
Horse about issues with the cars  gearbox  in October 2018 and said that she wanted the car 
to be repaired or replaced.  She wasnt satisfied with Black Horses response  so complained 
to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  It was her 
understanding that the car broke-down in July 2018  - which was eight months after it had 
been supplied  to Mrs W. And Black Horse  had said that the car passed an MOT test shortly  
before it broke-down when its mileage  was 103,957  and no advisories were highlighted. So 
she said that Mrs W was able to drive the car for at least 3,633 before experiencing the fault.
Mrs W has asked  for her complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that she returned  the car to the dealer  three  times  in the three  month guarantee 
period because of issues  with the cars gearbox  and the dealer had the recovery  
breakdown company return the car to it in July 2018  when it broke-down.  She says taking 
the car back  to the dealer three  times contributed to the miles that she was able to drive in 
the car. And she says that the MOT test in July 2018 wouldnt have picked up a gearbox 
issue.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse,  as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the age, and mileage 
of the car and the price  that was paid for it. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which  
means that the components within the car must  be durable and last a reasonable amount of 
time. Exactly how long that time is will depend  on a number of factors.  
The car that was supplied  to Mrs W in November 2017 was about six and a half years old 
and it had been driven for more than 100,000 miles. Mrs W says that she returned the car to 
the dealer three times within  three  months  of it being  supplied  to her because  of issues  with 
the cars  gear box. And she says that the car broke  down in July 2018 and that she paid 
£1,000 for it to be repaired.
But Black Horse says that Mrs W returned the car to the dealer shortly after it was supplied  
to her because it was losing power and a fault with the C fork in the gearbox  was identified 
And it says that the dealer has no record of the car being returned to it three times in the first 
three months after it was supplied to Mrs W.
The car passed an MOT  test in July 2018  when its mileage was 103,957  and no advisories 
were reported. At that time Mrs W had had the car for about eight months and it had been  
Ref: DRN02562032driven for more than 3,000 miles since it was supplied to her. The car broke-down  a few 
days later and was recovered  to the dealer where  it was repaired at Mrs Ws cost.  
And the dealer says that Mrs W contacted it in September 2018  because there was a 
knocking noise  when the car stops  and that it calibrated the cars gearbox  in October 2018 
when the cars mileage  was 104,575 miles. But it says that its unable to confirm  the root 
cause of the issue that Mrs W has experienced.
I sympathise with Mrs W for the issues that shes experienced with the car that was supplied 
to her in November 2017. And I understand the frustration that she feels.  But shes been 
able to use the car to drive more than 4,000 miles. Mrs W did return the car to the dealer 
within three months of it being supplied to her  and it was repaired.  But Im not persuaded 
that theres enough  evidence to show that there  was a fault with the car when it was supplied 
to Mrs W that caused it to not be of satisfactory quality at that time. 
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  Black  
Horse to allow Mrs W to reject the car, to pay her any compensation or to take any other  
action in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0256203