K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a car he acquired  with a hire purchase agreement through  
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd (BMF) suffered  engine failure. He thinks  this means  it wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality when he got it.
background 
Mr M acquired a car for £5,995 with a hire purchase  agreement for £5795 taken through  
BMF in January 2018. The car was around six and a half years old and had covered around  
37,500 miles.
In September  2018, Mr M says the car broke down. He made  arrangements for it to be 
recovered to a garage who explained  that the turbo had failed.  Further  investigation revealed 
that the turbo failure had caused the engine  to fail. He told BMF and asked it to pay for the 
repairs the car. At this point the car had travelled  around 3,700 miles since  he got it.
The garage that Mr M used provided information  which stated that the engine  had suffered   
damage as a result of the turbocharger failing and would need the engine and turbo to be 
replaced. It said the engine failure  wouldve happened very quickly and there  would have 
been no way to stop it once the turbo failed. He wasnt able to say when the fault occurred.
BMF told Mr M that as the fault had occurred over 6 months  since he acquired the car it was 
his responsibility  to demonstrate that it was there  or developing  at the point of sale. In its 
final response it said it couldnt accept the information provided  by Mr Ms mechanic  and he 
would need to pay for an independent inspection. Without this it said it could not uphold Mr 
Ms complaint.
Mr M was unhappy with this response  and brought the complaint to us. Our adjudicator  
upheld the complaint. She thought the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when Mr M got it. 
BMF didnt agree, so the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  this complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable I take into account relevant law. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  is relevant  to this complaint. This implies a term into the 
hire purchase agreement that the car supplied is of satisfactory quality. Therefore, the 
supplier (BMF) can be liable if there  is an issue with the quality of the car.
The CRA says the quality  of the goods includes their general  state  and condition.  Other  
things like durability can also be aspects of the quality of goods. In deciding  whether the car 
was of satisfactory quality, I take into account things  like its description, price and other 
considerations like its age and mileage.
I dont think Mr M couldve expected this car to be in perfect condition given its age and 
mileage. However,  the mileage was low for this car. I agree that there are some  parts  of the 
car that I think its reasonable to expect  would need replacing as time went on due to wear 
and tear. But, I think a reasonable person wouldve expected the engine  and gearbox to be 
Ref: DRN09775122free of major  problems for a reasonable amount of time. The car had just passed an MOT  
and it was not due for a service before it broke down. Mr M had only driven 3700 miles in the 
time he had the car.
Given the specific circumstances  of this case, the mileage of the car at supply and the way 
in which  the car was used, I think Mr M could have reasonably  expected the turbo  on this 
particular car to have  lasted more than nine months and 3,700 miles - even though it was an 
older car. Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied this means  the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when Mr M acquired it.
 
BMF said it had no evidence about  why the turbo had failed and this could have been 
because Mr M had driven the car with warning lights illuminated and without regular 
servicing having been carried out. 
Mr M says that the service was not due and I havent seen anything to suggest  that he is 
incorrect about this. The mechanic who inspected  the car explained  that once the turbo  had 
failed the engine will continue  to run even if the key is removed from the ignition until failure. 
So, I think its most likely the engine began to rev highly very shortly before the engine failed. 
There is nothing to suggest that any warning  lights were  illuminated  or that Mr M wouldve 
been aware of a problem before this happened. There is no evidence to suggest  that Mr M 
continued to drive the car with a known fault.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think its likely Mr M did anything  to cause this fault or 
make the damage  worse. So I agree with the adjudicator that the car wasnt sufficiently 
durable and so not of satisfactory  quality.
I now need to think about what would be fair for BMF to do to put things right.  Given  the total 
failure of the engine,  repair doesnt appear to be cost effective. Given  the issues  that Mr M 
has experienced I can appreciate why he does not want  the car repaired. Taking everything 
into account, I think the fairest way to put things right here is to cancel Mr Ms liability  under 
the agreement  and refund his deposit  as well as payments made under the agreement 
when he was without  a car. Mr M should also get back the money he paid to the garage to 
diagnose and attempt to repair the turbo.  
Thinking about  what happened to Mr M when the car went wrong, Im also satisfied he has 
suffered distress and inconvenience. He was left without  a car for some  time because of 
what went wrong.
Ref: DRN09775123my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Blue Motor Finance  Ltd to put 
things right by doing the following:
cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
collect the car at no cost to Mr M 
remove any arrears,  charges or fees accrued from September 2018 onwards
remove any adverse information  about  the agreement from Mr Ms credit  file
refund  the deposit of £200.00*
refund  any money paid towards the finance since the point the engine failed in 
September 2018*
pay Mr M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  he suffered
pay Mr M £1820  for the repairs on the car*
*These payments should have 8% simple interest  added from when Mr M incurred the costs 
to when they are refunded. HM Revenue & Customs  requires BMF  to take off tax from this 
interest. BMF must give Mr M a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0977512