K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Trinity Lane Insurance Company Ltd hasnt offered him enough  to 
settle his commercial vehicle insurance  claim.  
background
Mr W claimed on his policy after his van was stolen. Trinity accepted the claim and initially 
valued Mr Ws van at £20,000. Mr W disputed this valuation  as he said hed had to pay 
£23,500 for a new van. Trinitys engineers revised the valuation of the van to £23,500. But 
Trinity said it was going to apply a deduction  of 16.36% to the claim settlement  because     
Mr W had given the wrong value of his van when he bought the policy and also incorrectly  
said he kept the van on the drive,  as it thought the van was kept on the road instead. Trinity 
said if Mr W had given the correct  information hed have paid 16.36% more for his policy 
than he had done. Trinity offered him £19,355.40 to settle his claim after deducting his 
excess. 
Mr W didnt think  this was fair and brought his complaint  to us. He said his van had been 
parked in a local pub car park because  hed been  out for a meal and didnt want to drive it 
home after drinking.  He didnt think it was fair that Trinity  wouldnt have made a deduction if 
his van had been parked  further away from his home. He said his van was kept on the 
driveway 99% of the time apart from this one evening. He also said hed told Trinity how 
much hed bought  his van for when he bought his policy  which was £20,000.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint and recommended that it be partly  upheld. 
She didnt  think it was fair for Trinity to apply a deduction based  on the value Mr W had 
declared when  he bought  his policy. She said if Trinity was only going  to pay Mr W the 
amount hed declared then shed expect it to have made it clearer  when he bought  the 
policy. But she thought  the deduction  for the van not being parked on the drive  was fair as 
she thought Mr W kept his van on the road.  And Trinity would have  charged  him more for his 
policy if it had known  that. So she thought it was fair for Trinity to make a deduction of 9.09% 
from the claim. 
Neither Mr W nor Trinity agreed with the investigator. Trinity thought it was fair to make both 
deductions and Mr W said his van was kept on the drive 99% of the time. He said it was 
untrue to say his van wasnt usually kept on the driveway. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to partly  
uphold it. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ws policy say the maximum Trinity will pay if Mr Ws van is 
stolen is either the value  shown on the schedule or the theft market  value of the van 
immediately before the loss, whichever is lower. It defines market value as the cost of 
replacing the van with one of a similar make, model,  year and mileage. 
Mr W bought his policy over the phone in 2016. Ive listened  to the call and the broker asked 
Mr W whats the value  of the vehicle,  how much did you pay for it? Mr W said £20,000.     
Mr W also said the van would be parked on his driveway overnight.
Ref: DRN00138992When he renewed his policy  in June 2017  Mr W had a duty - under the Insurance Act 2015 - 
to make a fair presentation of the risk. And if Trinity doesn't  think Mr W made a fair 
presentation of the risk then it needs to show Mr W didnt do this and that instead he made 
whats described in the Insurance  Act as a qualifying breach. 
Ive seen the renewal  paperwork that asked Mr W to check  the policy still met his needs  and 
to call the broker if any of the information  is incorrect. The statement of fact sent to Mr W 
with his renewal said the value  of the van was £20,000 and it was parked on the driveway.  
Trinity said Mr W should have valued his van properly and if he had done  it would  have 
charged him a higher premium. But the statement of fact only asks for an estimated value 
and I think its reasonable that Mr W based  this on the amount hed bought his van for. So I 
think he did make  a fair presentation of the risk by leaving the estimated  value  at £20,000. 
As Mr W made  a fair presentation  of the risk in regard to the value I dont think its fair and 
reasonable for Trinity to make any deduction for that. 
Ive listened to the call where  Mr Ws wife reported  the theft. During the call she said the van 
was kept on the road outside  their house. She said they used to keep it on the drive  but 
accessories from the van had been  stolen so they decided to keep in on the road as the road 
was in view of a number of houses and the light from the local pub shines on it. I think this 
contradicts Mr Ws account that it was only the night of the theft that the van was parked 
nearby at the pub. And I think  Mr Ws wifes version  is most  likely to be accurate as its the 
information that was provided  first. 
Ive seen a map of where Mr Ws house  and the pub are situated  and they are within  a one 
minute walk of each other.  Ive also seen photographs showing that the pub is almost  next 
door to Mr Ws house. Mr Ws wife said the light from the pub shone onto the van where they 
kept it on the road. Based on this I think its more likely that was where  it was usually kept 
than the van only being parked there due to not wanting to drive  home  from the pub after 
drinking. 
Its not clear when Mr W decided to park the van on the road instead  of the driveway. But 
given the inconsistencies in the information provided between Mr W and his wife I think its 
most likely he didnt  make a fair presentation of the risk when  renewing  his policy.  And even 
if the van was kept on the drive when Mr W bought his policy the policy also says he needs  
to let Trinity know if he changed where  he kept his van. 
In view of this, I dont think Mr W took reasonable care to make  a fair presentation of the risk. 
But to show Mr W made a qualifying breach, under  the Insurance Act Trinity needs to show  it 
would either  not have  offered the policy at all if he had made a fair presentation of the risk or 
that it would  have offered it on different terms. 
Trinity has shown that it would still have sold Mr W a policy but the premium would have 
been higher. And because it would have  offered  cover at a higher premium,  its entitled to 
settle Mr Ws claim on a proportionate basis. Trinity said Mr W paid £623.55 for his policy. If 
hed told Trinity his car was parked on the road he would have paid £685.90.  This means  
that because Mr W only paid 90.91%  of the premium he should have done,  Trinity only has 
to pay 90.91%  of what hes due for his claim.
Trinity has valued Mr Ws van as £23,500.  This means when  paying  Mr W 90.91% of this 
Trinity needs to pay Mr W a total of £21,363.85 to settle his claim, minus any excess. I 
Ref: DRN00138993understand Trinity hasnt  made an interim payment  to Mr W so due to the time hes been 
without the money  it should add interest to £21,363.85 at a rate of 8% a year simple from the 
date of the theft to the date it makes payment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require Trinity Lane Insurance  
Company Ltd to pay Mr W a total of £21,363.85 to settle his claim,  minus any excess. It 
should add interest  to £21,363.85  at a rate of 8% simple from the date of the theft to the date 
it makes payment1.
Trinity should do this within  28 days of us telling it Mr Ws accepted  my final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If Trinity Lane Insurance Company considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr W a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN0013899