K820x#14complaint
Mrs R isnt happy Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined  to settle her travel insurance  
claim. Any references to URV include its agents. 
background 
Mrs R spent the 2018 ski season in Andorra. In March 2018, she decided to leave Andorra 
for a week  and visit France.  To cover  this trip, she purchased a single trip travel  insurance 
policy with URV. The policy  was sold online through URVs agent. Mrs R already had a 
policy with a different  insurer to cover her stay in Andorra. 
Unfortunately, Mrs R was involved in an accident in France which  required medical 
treatment. Following this, she raised  a claim with URV to cover her expenses.
URV initially declined  to pay the claim  as they said the policy doesnt provide cover for trips 
that had already started. Following our involvement, URV clarified that they believed  Mrs R 
made a careless  misrepresentation when  taking out the policy. This is because she gave 
incorrect information about the date she was due to leave the UK and start her trip. They 
agreed to refund her policy premiums but they said they wouldnt settle  the claim. 
Our investigator felt refunding the premiums was a reasonable resolution to the complaint  as 
he said it complied with the appropriate legislation.  He didnt  think  URV did anything wrong 
by declining  the claim as he thought Mrs R was asked a clear  question and she answered  it 
incorrectly. He was also satisfied URV  wouldnt have provided her with a policy if shed 
provided correct information.
As Mrs R didnt  agree with the investigator, Ive been asked to consider the complaint afresh.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about  Mrs Rs accident and I appreciate shes been through a very 
difficult time. 
Under the relevant legislation, Mrs R had a responsibility to take reasonable care when 
providing information to URV. This was provided she was asked clear and specific  
questions. If she didnt take reasonable  care then I need to decide if her actions were 
careless or deliberate and reckless.   
If the misrepresentation was careless and URV  can show that they wouldnt have provided  
Mrs R with the policy - they can avoid  it and decline all claims. But the legislation says they 
must refund the premiums. 
did Mrs R take reasonable care when completing  the online application?
Ive reviewed a screenshot provided  by URV  which shows the question Mrs R was asked 
about the start date of her trip.
Ref: DRN08098842I note she was asked  the following question:
When are you going?
This question only allowed a consumer to select the current  date or a date in the future.
Next to the question there is a red question  mark you can click on for more  information. The 
explanation says:
Start date help
Please tell us the date you are leaving the United Kingdom. For multi Trip Policies: 
We would  recommend choosing todays date to ensure you have cancellation cover 
in place from today,  although you can select any date up to 31 days  in advance.
I think this is a clear question as it specifically asked Mrs R to confirm  the date she was 
intending on departing for her trip. It also restricts the answers so that you cant select a start 
date from the past. 
I appreciate Mrs R may have believed  this question meant the date she was due to travel to 
France from Andorra. However,  if shed  clicked on the explanation provided alongside the 
question  she wouldve  seen that it referred  to the date she was due to leave the UK. If she 
was unsure about how to answer  this question,  I also think  she couldve asked URV for help 
before continuing,  or clicked on the information button Ive mentioned.  
I accept Mrs Rs misrepresentation wasnt deliberate and reckless  but I think  it was careless 
 thats because I dont think she took reasonable care when answering  the above  question 
which was relevant to her eligibility for the cover. 
Mrs R has said she thinks she was asked a different question and I appreciate our service 
was initially provided  with incorrect information  in relation to this. However,  as URV have 
now provided us with evidence of the exact question she was asked at the time of sale,  Im 
satisfied the above question was asked.
is it unreasonable for URV to decline  the claim and refund the premiums?
Based on the above question, Im satisfied URV wouldnt have offered Mrs R a policy if she 
hadnt made the careless misrepresentation. This is because she wouldnt  have  been  able to 
proceed with the application if shed answered  the question correctly  as she wasnt  eligible 
to take out this policy.
This is also supported  by the following policy wording: 
This insurance is sold on the understanding that you and anyone travelling with you and 
named on the insurance certificate:  
Have not started the trip. 
Ref: DRN08098843Trip is defined in the policy as:
A holiday or journey that begins when you leave home and ends on your return  to 
either (i) your home,  or (ii) a hospital or nursing home in the United Kingdom, EIRE 
or Channel  Islands, following your repatriation. Both during the period of cover.
Home is defined as: 
One of your normal places of residence  in the United Kingdom,  EIRE, BFPO or the 
Channel Islands. 
In light of the above, I think  URV  applied the appropriate legislation  correctly  by declining  to 
settle the claim and that was fair in the circumstances of this case. As URV have now 
offered to refund the premiums I think this is reasonable.  They should refund the premiums if 
they havent done so already.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  September 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0809884