K821x#15complaint
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint about Nationwide  Building Society on 21 July 
2021. It contains the relevant background information and sets out my provisional  findings. 
For completeness, a copy is annexed  to this final decision. 
background
In brief summary, I was minded to uphold this complaint about disputed transactions
(for the purchase of binary options) on the basis that they ought  reasonably  to have  triggered
Nationwides potential  fraud alerts. Ifin line with various regulatory duties (and good 
industry practice)Nationwide  had contacted Mr W before  executing  his payment 
instructions, most of his losses would probably  have been prevented.  
For example, a warning  about the high-risk of scams  associated  with binary-options trading 
and the published warning about  the merchant  (72Option) would probably  have  caused  Mr 
W to investigate such unlicensed,  unregulated  investments and/or the purported trader more 
closely  and stopped him from making further  payments.
I did think Nationwide could reasonably have been triggered by the initial payment, so the 
total award I had in mind (net of interest  and/or tax deductions) was £2,000.
The above  is not a substitute for my full reasons, so I would urge the parties to re-read my 
provisional decision (below) before proceeding.
responses
Mr W did not have anything further  to add and accepted the provisional decision.  
Nationwide disagrees  with my provisional decision and has made  further submissions. I 
have carefully read and digested those submissions in full and Ive summarised the key 
points, using Nationwides points of dispute  headings:
Was it a scam? Mr W invested in a scheme  that involved gambling  in hope of making  
a profitable return. The non-return of his funds  or any winnings is not, in itself, 
evidence that it was a scam and there may have  been  another  reason  the disputed  
payments were not returned to him. In order to fall within  the definition of a scam 
there needed to have  been dishonest representations to Mr W about the purpose of 
the payments  or who Mr W was paying.  The IOSCO alerts do not describe or indicate 
72Option was operating a scam. It is yet to be established conclusively some  four 
years later that 72Option was operating a scam and so it would not have been  
reasonable for Nationwide  to conclude this at the time of the payments. 
Was Nationwide under a duty to intervene? Some of the alerts  postdated  the 
payments. And the alert that was in place  prior to Mr Ws first payment stated 
72Option was suspected  of operating without authority under British Columbia 
legislation and binary options  were  not classed as securities  or regulated  financial 
products at the time of the payments. Nationwide fails to see how this alert could or 
should have prompted  the Society to suspect that 72Option  was trading fraudulently. 
The alert did not reference they were operating a scam. It simply recommended that 
customers should exercise caution when  dealing with 72Option. The only visible alert 
was the one registered with British Columbia Security Commission  and this alert was 
Ref: DRN06963582not published on the IOSCO portal at the time.  
Constructive notice  the application of the doctrine of constructive notice to a 
banking transaction  is inappropriate and incorrect. The doctrine of constructive notice 
is a principle developed through equitable  law whereby a person without actual 
notice of some matter is, in certain circumstances (and, typically, where they have  
acted recklessly), treated as if they had actual notice of it. Mr W wanted  to invest in 
binary options in order  to make money  and had carried  out some  online research. 
Nationwide cannot be held to have had knowledge of it when Mr W didnt  have the 
opportunity to research binary  options. Mr W did not realise  that 72Option  had no 
intention of returning his money until several  months after the payments. 
The FSAs 2012 consultation paper refers  to gathering timely and detailed 
intelligence about  investment fraud typologies. It then goes on to list a number of 
sources which could  feed into an investment fraud  watchlist   including the IOSCO 
investor alert portal as a non-prescriptive example source for other jurisdictions. 
Nationwide is a UK based firm without established  international  operations.  In those 
circumstances, expecting  Nationwide  to monitor and base payment interventions on 
a specific international database because that database is referenced in an FSA 
paper aimed at a wide variety of firms  is not suitable  or reasonable. The practicalities 
of monitoring alerts issued by foreign regulators  and implementing automatic blocks 
is an onerous requirement and almost  impossible to implement effectively because  
merchants can and do trade under a variety of names. 
With a card payment,  the only indication it receives to suggest  the type of merchant  
is the 4-digit Merchant  Category Code (MCC), in this case  6211 Security  
Brokers/Dealers. This would be the same  code used by stockbrokers and share  
trading firms and high value transactions are common. If Nationwide  wanted to block  
a merchant, it would have to convert the merchant  name on the customers 
statement to something  unique  it uses a combination of the Visa merchant ID and 
the acquiring bank  ID. Its the equivalent  of the sort code  and account  number. It 
wouldnt carry out this activity until it had identified a problem  with a specific  
merchant affecting  its members. None of the warnings suggested the firm was 
marketing in the UK and the FCA didnt  issue their warning until March 2018.  
Nationwide doesnt  think its reasonable to anticipate warnings for its national 
regulator and act on information  from foreign regulators that may be irrelevant to its 
members. 
Unusual transaction  It didnt  find the disputed payments  to be unusual  and it 
doesnt understand how this was concluded.  In July 2021, 517 Nationwide debit  card 
members made  a payment of £5,000 or more to MCC 6211 (Security  
Brokers/Dealers) and 124 of them made  more  than one payment (one in four). The 
total paid in July was £10m by 4,797 unique cardholders  an average of £2,099 and 
1.3 transactions per member. None  were fraud  or scams, so its a very low risk MCC. 
Did Nationwides failure  to intervene cause the loss  Nationwide does not 
understand or agree with the basis of my finding  that Mr W wouldnt have continued 
with the payments if Nationwide  had contacted him. The only information  Nationwide  
could have provided at the time was derived  from the IOSCO  investor  portal and 
there is no indication  that Mr W would not have proceeded with the payments based  
on this, particularly in view of the fact that he had already been considering the 
investment and carried out his own research. 
Ref: DRN06963583Did Mr W contribute  to the loss? Mr W had the benefit of researching 72Option prior 
to entering into the transaction,  whereas Nationwide did not and was not required to. 
Mr W should have known  there  was a high level of risk and that he would not see a 
return on his funds  in light of his research. He paid a total of £6,000  to 72Option  
which was a sizeable sum. There was no indication  that Mr W was pressured into 
making a large payment at short  notice.  Therefore, the redress that Nationwide is 
required to pay should be reduced on the grounds  that he contributed  to his loss. 
findings
I have reconsidered  all the evidence and arguments in light of Nationwides  response in 
order to decide  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. Having 
done so, I remain  of the view that this complaint should be upheld   for the reasons that 
follow:
1.I addressed whether  72Option had operated  a scam under point 3 of my provisional 
findings (below). I have  taken  account of Nationwides response on this preliminary  
point. But it is wrong to suggest that the issue has to be determined  conclusively. 
Even though considering issues of fraud or deceit, this is still ultimately a civil 
dispute, not a criminal trial  so I only have to decide  matters  on the balance  of 
probabilities, not beyond  reasonable doubt. It is a relatively low threshold. So Im still 
persuaded that there is enough credible data for me to conclude, on balance, that 
72Option was running a scam.  
2.At the time of Mr Ws payments, binary  options  companies operating within  the UK  
whether physically or remotely   required licensing by the UKs Gambling  
Commission. In December 2016, the Gambling Commission said An unlicensed 
operator is likely to be acting illegally. They will not abide by any code of conduct  and 
have no incentive  to deal fairly with you. Unlicensed operators are likely to use false 
names, false addresses and contact  numbers  they can disappear  with your money 
and without a trace, making recovery impossible.  Ive noted 72Option was not 
licensed by the UKs  Gambling Commission, or in any other jurisdiction (so far as Im 
reasonably aware),  at the time it contracted with Mr W. Ive also noted  that several 
regulators published warnings about 72Option,  including the FCA. Im satisfied a 
regulator would require enough credible  information to publish a warning about a 
company operating  without registration. Registering an IOSCO warning would also 
require an additional step for that particular regulator as to warn other jurisdictions of 
its warning of a particular company. So Im satisfied enough effort  has been taken by 
various regulators to alert potential  investors/regulators across multiple jurisdictions 
about dealing  with 72Option. 
3.I also pointed out in the provisional decision  which Nationwide  has not contradicted  
 that there is quite  a lot of hearsay or circumstantial evidence about  this trader 
operating a scam. It would be unfair and unreasonable  for an informal ombudsman 
scheme, not bound  by strict rules of evidence, to ignore so much credible 
information. Again, this is not a criminal trial but semi-formal alternative dispute  
resolution. Taking all of this together,  I am still persuaded 72Option was operating a 
scam.
4.The IOSCO  states: The date next to the name  of the IOSCO member is the date 
when the alert or warning was posted  on this list. The British Columbia Securities 
Commissions warning about  72Option  was published on the IOSCO investor alert 
Ref: DRN06963584portal on 13 December  2016, so I do not accept Nationwides assertion that the alert 
post-dated the disputed  transactions in April 2017.  
5.Nationwide suggests that it would be unreasonable and onerous for it to review 
information published by foreign regulators because it is a UK-based firm without 
international operations and this information may be irrelevant to its members. I 
reviewed ten Nationwide complaints  relating to payments taken between 2016-
2018  at random that fall within the category of a binary options scam. Of those ten 
complaints, nine related to merchants operating overseas (including another  
72Option complaint) and one complaint related to a merchant operating in the UK. I 
think its safe to conclude that most scams that relate to binary options and 
Nationwide customers (that occurred within a particular timeframe)  related to 
merchants based overseas.  So at the very least, Nationwide  ought to be aware of 
credible information  that is published  by its own regulator and regulators overseas. 
6.I agree  it would be an onerous task for Nationwide to trawl through  each international 
regulators individual register. But international regulators, as well as Nationwides  
own regulator, regularly  publishes  warnings on a central list  being the IOSCOs 
investor alert portal and Nationwides regulator  (the UKs FCA) suggested this was a 
good source for firms  to build their own watchlists. I dont  think  it is an onerous  task 
for Nationwide  to update its own internal watchlist within one month of regulator 
warnings being published as this ought to give it enough time to carry out the 
necessary steps internally. I take Nationwides point that sometimes merchants 
operate under various names  but this point isnt relevant to Mr Ws case as 
72Option was the name listed on Mr Ws transaction statements. Having concluded 
binary options scams were well documented by credible sources at the time of Mr 
Ws payments and there was a published warning about  72Option on the IOSCOs 
investor alert list several months  prior to his payments,  I still find that Nationwide had 
constructive if not actual  notice  that the payee  may not be legitimate and ought to 
have reasonably taken steps to flag the payment  and investigate it further, including  
making contact with Mr W.   
7.Regarding Nationwides comments on the application of the equitable principle  of 
constructive knowledge, this service has a broad fair and reasonable jurisdiction  
which takes account of equitable  principles (amongst other things). It is fair and 
reasonable (or equitable) for regulated firms to be deemed to have notice of certain  
facts in the public domain  and this is a stance ombudsmen have been taking since  
the inception of our statutory  scheme  in 2001 (and prior to that under relevant 
predecessor schemes). 
8.In relation to the unusual and uncharacteristic payment,  I found  the payments ought  
reasonably to have  triggered alerts because they were being made to a suspected  
scammer on an international watchlist, not because the amounts were particularly 
large. It is also important to appreciate that some  smaller transactions  may still flag 
as unusual or uncharacteristic for that particular  customer and/or account depending 
on the relevant,  recent history. Here, we had a near-octogenarian customer  who 
suddenly started  spending not insignificant sums with a high-risk  merchant  abroad  
that was subject to an international alert. This was out of character for him and, in my 
view, ought reasonably to have raised suspicions at Nationwide given its wide-
ranging regulatory obligations  to guard  against the risks of fraud and financial crime. 
Ref: DRN069635859.Nationwide reference a review of several  hundred customer payments made  in July 
2021 that were  processed using the MCC 6211  (which was the MCC used  in Mr Ws 
transactions). Of these cases Nationwide didnt find any reported scams. As I 
explained in my provisional decision  at point 8, Visa required all unregulated  and 
unlicensed binary options merchants  (like 72Option) to re-code under a high-risk  
gambling MCC from 1 December 2018.  Visa explained that appropriately licensed 
binary options merchants could continue  to operate under MCC 6211. Based on this, 
Nationwides findings of the payments it reviewed was unremarkable  and not relevant 
to the matter at hand as Mr Ws payments  occurred  in 2017, prior to Visas re-coding 
expectation. 
10.Nationwide suggests a warning  from it would not have made  Mr W do anything  
differently. Thats because all it could have warned him about was the IOSCOs 
investor alert about 72Option. I dont agree. Im satisfied  the mention of Mr W trading 
in binary options  ought to have sounded  alarm  bells for Nationwide.  It ought to have  
been aware of common binary-options  scams  through  its own customer complaints 
and information  published by other credible sources as referenced in point 17 of my 
provisional decision, to have enabled  it to have given Mr W an appropriate warning. 
11.Ive considered Nationwides  final point that Mr W should bear some of the loss 
because he researched  72Option  at the time he transacted with it, so ought to have  
been aware of the high risks involved with binary-options trading. I dont place much 
weight on this point  from Nationwide  because of the information  imbalance between  
financial professionals  and ordinary consumers. Mr W was almost 80 years of age at 
the time he transacted with 72Option  and I dont  think he could have  reasonably 
known it was a scam.  Nationwide is more familiar with the level of sophistication 
involved with this type of scam and Mr W was prompted to pay more money onto his 
platform after seeing his trading account making profits. I dont think  he could have 
reasonably known that what  he was likely  seeing was no more than a simulation. In 
Nationwides submissions, it provided email  conversations  between 72Option and Mr 
W. In these conversations, Luke from 72Option told Mr W on 13 April 2017 (prior to 
his Nationwide  payments)  that his funds  will be insured under our risk free trade 
agreement. Meaning that if we experience any losses  throughout the trades, the 
funds will be injected  back into your account as a bonus from the firm. Making this a 
win win scenario . Unless prompted to think otherwise by a trusted  source (such as 
his building society), I think Mr W was sufficiently satisfied  at the time he deposited 
money with 72Option  that his funds  would be safe and managed  by who he believed 
to be a financial professional. It follows that I remain unpersuaded  that Mr W shares 
blame for what happened, so make  no reduction  in his award. 
Ref: DRN06963586final decision
For the reasons  set out above and before, I have decided to uphold this complaint. I 
therefore require  Nationwide  Building Society  to refund to Mr W all of his stolen payments 
(totalling £2,000). 
This was a current account,  so Nationwide should add interest  to that sum (less any tax 
properly deductible) at 8% simple per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
refund. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2021. 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN06963587copy of provisional decision dated 21 July 2021  -
complaint
Mr W complains about his building society, Nationwide  Building  Society.  He says Nationwide 
failed to protect him from financial harm caused by a company called 72Option.
He alleges they were scammers  posing as binary-options traders, as a result of which he
lost around £6,000. 
Nationwide denies  responsibility for the loss. Its position, broadly,  is that Mr W authorised  all 
the payments  to 72Option  and by the time he contacted it to report the scam, it was too late 
for a chargeback claim  to be processed.
There were two disputed  transactions of £1,000 each debited from Mr Ws current  account 
with Nationwide   linked  to his Visa debit card. The remaining £4,000 was taken from an 
account Mr W held with another banking provider. Mr W believed he was trading in binary
optionsessentially a win-or-lose bet on the performance of commodities (etc)and that he
was making very good profits based  on the information shown on his 72Option  online
platform. When Mr W tried to withdraw funds from his trading platform, he was unable to. Mr 
W now believes  the platform was nothing  more than manipulated software or a video game  
and not linked to real-life trades. The total amount in consideration in this decision is the 
disputed Nationwide  transactions  totaling  £2,000. 
my findings
Upon reading  all the available evidence and arguments from both parties, I have  
concluded that it would be fair and reasonable partly to uphold this complaint  for the 
following reasons:
1.Not every complaint  referred to us and categorised as a binary-options scam is in 
fact a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investment  bets  on the 
performance of (e.g.) commodities or stocks that resulted in very disappointing 
returns or losses. Some binary-options  traders promoted these productswhich 
were not regulated by the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) or its predecessor  at 
the timeusing  sales methods that were arguably  unethical and/or misleading. 
However, whilst  customers  who lost out may understandably  regard such acts or 
omissions as fraudulent,  they do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold or 
burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making  a false representation and/or 
failing to disclose  information with the intention of making a gain for himself  or of 
causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
2.Banks, building societies and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have  
duties to protect customers against  the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to 
undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering 
(see below). But when simply executing authorised  payments, they do not have  to 
protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice  and 
the FCA has confirmed that a fraud  warning would  not constitute  unauthorised 
investment advice (see its predecessors  2012 consultation paper on investment 
fraud, below). So, the first question to resolve is whether this particular retailer/trader  
was actually a fraudster.
Ref: DRN069635883.I am satisfied that 72Option were not carrying out legitimate binary-options trades  
but were instead  dishonestly  defrauding  customers,  e.g. by not actually making 
trades/bets with the money  received  from clients but simply manipulating their online 
trading platform to show purported gainswith  initial token pay-outsin order  to 
induce further investments from victims such as Mr W. In the absence  of evidence 
to the contrary,  I have  concluded this because:
a.In 2017, binary-options traders operating in the UK were required to be 
licensed by the UKs  Gambling Commission  whereas Markets Cube were  
not. Nor were they regulated in any other jurisdiction so far as I am 
reasonably aware. This indicates they were operating  illegally, probably with 
dishonest intentions. Legitimate  firms tend to comply  with regulatory 
requirements.
b.On 13 December 2016, a warning about  72Option was placed on the 
Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities  
Commissions (IOSCO). The British Columbia Securities Commission  of 
British Columbia reported that they were offering financial services  in its 
jurisdiction without  authorisation.  Warnings  from Australia and Hong Kongs 
regulators also published warnings in 2017 and the FCA published a 
warning in March 2018. 
c.There are several reports in the public domaine.g. foreign press and 
online forumsstating  that 72Option were scammers. This hearsay is not in 
itself sufficient evidence  of fraud. But in the context of known regulatory  
facts, it may fairly and reasonably be regarded as circumstantial  evidence  
that helps build an overall picture  of scammers dishonestly seeking  gains at 
the expense of others.
4.Having concluded  that this was a scam rather than just a bad bargain or poor 
investment advice, I must now go on to consider four more issues in order to 
determine the outcome of the complaint:
a.Did Nationwide deal with Mr Ws chargeback claims fairly?
b.If so, were any of the disputed transactions still so unusual or 
uncharacteristic for Mr W and/or his account  that Nationwide  fraud  alerts  
ought reasonably  to have triggered  some  sort of intervention?
c.If triggered, would Nationwides  intervention have made a difference and 
prevented or reduced the loss?
d.And if so, was Mr W partly to blame for what  happened such  that it would 
be fair and reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately?
chargeback
5.Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately  arbitrate on 
a dispute between the merchant  and customer if it cannot be resolved between them 
after two presentments.  Such  arbitration  is subject to the rules  of the scheme   so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such 
cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether  the regulated card issuer (i.e. Nationwide)  acted fairly and 
reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present)  a chargeback  on behalf of 
its cardholder.
6.Mr W is upset  because Nationwide refused to process his chargeback because it 
Ref: DRN06963589says he was outside the 120-day time limits set by Visa. 
7.In my judgment, it was not unreasonable of Nationwide to not attempt a chargeback. 
First, it was clear  that Mr W reported  his problem to Nationwide  too late as he 
reported the problem in October 2017 which  was more  than 120 days  after the date 
of his transactions. Its also clear that the problems  Mr W experienced (that he 
couldnt withdraw his available funds) were not yet covered by the Visa chargeback 
rules. I am mindful that the Visa chargeback rules did not cover  problems  with 
withdrawals relating to binary-options (or forex) trading until 14 October  2017,  i.e. 
prior to the disputed  transactions: see Visa Business News, 26 October  2017:
Effective 14 October 2017, issuers may use Reason Code 53 to address cases  whereby 
a binary options (or forex) merchant has imposed obstacles to prevent cardholders from 
withdrawing funds. This chargeback right is limited to the amount available in the binary  
option account at the time funds are requested. Issuers cannot charge  back  more  than 
the original  transaction amount, so capital  gains from binary options trades cannot be 
paid out via the chargeback process
..The 120-day chargeback time limit will be counted from the date the cardholder 
expected to receive the merchandise or services, rather than the date of the transaction, 
up to 540 days  from the date of the original transaction.
8.Though not material to the circumstances  of this case, it is worth adding  for 
completeness that, from 1 December 2018, Visas rules  changed  again  to require 
binary-options merchants  (and other high-brand  risk merchants ) to be coded under 
Merchant Category Code (MCC) 7995Betting, including  Lottery  Tickets,  Casino  
Gaming Chips, Off-Track Betting,  and Wagers at Race Tracks. Visa Business News 
dated 6 September 2018 stated:
Visa has discovered that certain binary  options, rolling  spot forex  trading, financial spread  
betting and contracts for difference merchants are being acquired in markets  that do not 
require licensing or regulate merchant trading platforms. In addition,  some of these  
merchants are selling into countries where  local laws prohibit such transactions  or require  
licensing by the relevant financial  services  authority.
9.Given that the disputed transactions in this case occurred in April 2017, before the 
changes to Visas rules were published,  Nationwide could only have successfully 
presented a chargeback claim if 72Option had expressly promised Mr W a guaranteed  
return contrary to the realities of such high-risk  trading. And there was no evidence 
they had. So, declining  to process  a chargeback claim in circumstances where there  
was no dispute  right available to Nationwide  was neither an unfair  nor unreasonable  
exercise of Nationwides discretion.
10.For the reasons  set out above, I am not persuaded that Nationwide acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in connection  with the chargeback claim at the time Mr W presented 
his case, so I cannot uphold this complaint on that ground.
unusual or uncharacteristic activity
11.Nationwide is aware of our general position  on a PSPs safeguarding and due-
diligence duties  to protect customers  from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We 
have published  many decisions on our website setting out these principles and 
quoting the relevant  rules and regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again 
Ref: DRN069635810here in detail.
12.It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr W for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations  2009 (the Regulations),  in force at 
the time.  This is because they were made  by Mr W using the legitimate security 
credentials provided to him by Nationwide. These  must be regarded  as authorised 
payments even though Mr W was the victim of a sophisticated scam. So, although 
he did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under 
the terms and conditions of his account, Mr W is presumed liable  for the loss in the 
first instance.
13.However, taking into account  the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what  I consider to have  been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider Nationwide  should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made  or received to 
counter various  risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering  the financing  
of  terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs 
that might indicate its customers were  at risk of fraud (amongst other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks  and building societies are generally more  familiar 
with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  
from the possibility  of financial harm from fraud.
14.I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case  to have alerted a responsible 
regulated firm such as Nationwide that Mr Ws account was being subjected  to 
unusual and uncharacteristic  activity. There were reasonable grounds to suspect a 
fraud or scam, and therefore justify an intervention  (such as phoning him in order  to 
ask discreet questions about  the nature and purpose of the payments).
15.First, regulated firms  ought reasonably to take notice of common types  of scams. As 
long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper 
entitled Banks Defences Against  Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators  and 
protecting victims that it was good  industry  practice for firms to build up an updated 
watch-list of types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely  
and detailed intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, 
etc. Whilst the regulator gave  no specific timings, it is not unreasonable  in my view to 
expect a large firm to update its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, 
say, one month of an alert being  posted  by the FCA or IOSCO. In my judgment, such 
alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bellsand lead to the payment being 
pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer.
16.In Mr Ws case, there was a warning  about 72Option on IOSCOs Investor Alerts 
Portal from 13 December 2016, which was before the first payment on 16 April 2017. It 
is not unreasonable to expect a large  firm that regularly updates  its internal  alerts to 
include information about payees who had tried to carry out regulated  activities  without 
permission. I accept  that the warning did not specifically relate to binary-options 
Ref: DRN069635811trading; and it did not necessarily follow from the nature  of the warning in isolation that 
these were fraudsters. But given the timing  of the alert relative to the first payment, I 
think Nationwide ought to have automatically  blocked it. Nationwide  had constructive if 
not actual notice that the payee might not be a legitimate merchant  therefore, it 
would have been reasonable for it to have properly questioned Mr W before 
processing his first payment in order to satisfy itself that all was well.
17.If Nationwide had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence  by contacting Mr W 
and asking suitably  probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that he would 
have explained  what he was doing.  In such circumstances, whilst Nationwide  had no 
duty to protect  him from a bad bargain  or give investment advice, it could have 
invited him to check whether the payee was registered with the Gambling 
Commission. It could have also explained  its own customer experiences  with 
merchants like 72Option  in that customers would  often be prevented  from 
withdrawing available balances. After all, at that time, there was information in the 
public domainwhich a building society ought to have  known even if a lay consumer 
ought notabout the very high risks associated with binary  options  including  many 
warnings of potential  fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European 
Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016  warning; the Financial  Conduct  
Authoritys consultation paper of December 2016;  and the Gambling Commissions  
December 2016 scam  warning that an unlicensed operator is likely  operating 
illegally, and so forth).
18.There is no evidence that Nationwide provided Mr W with any meaningful 
warnings or gave him other reasons to doubt  the legitimacy of the payments he 
was making. It was a missed opportunity to intervene.
causation
19.If Nationwide had asked Mr W what the payments were for and the basic  
surrounding context,  it is likely he would  have fully explained what  he was doing and 
that everything had been done  over the phone and online with his broker. 
Nationwide did not need to know for certain  whether Mr W was dealing  with a 
fraudulent binary options trader or investing  in a legitimate  (albeit highly speculative) 
product; reasonable grounds  for suspicion are enough to trigger a firms  obligations 
under the various  regulations and principles of good  practice.  I consider there were 
such grounds here and, therefore,  that Nationwide  ought reasonably to have 
provided a scam  warning in light of all the information then known to financial 
professionals about the risks associated with unregulated,  overseas binary  options.  
20.If Nationwide had given a warning, I believe that Mr W would have  paused  and 
looked more closely  into 72Option before proceeding.  There is no evidence  that he 
was willing to take high risks or had a history of speculative investments or 
gambling. It seems more probable that he would  have  made  further enquiries into 
binary-options scams and whether or not 72Option  were regulated  in the UK or 
abroad. He could  have discovered they were not and the various regulatory 
warnings about the risk of binary-options scams (see above). In other  words,  I am 
satisfied that a warning from his trusted building society would probably have 
exposed 72Options smoke and mirrors, causing him to stop and prevent any 
losses.
Ref: DRN06963581221.Even if he had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning  would 
have prompted  greater research into binary options,  which in turn would have 
revealed the truth behind his supposed brokers (mis)representations  i.e. that 
they were not really  regulated UK investments but highly-risky  international bets 
more akin to a wager in which  the broker must lose if he is to win. This would 
probably have  stopped  him in his tracks.  But for Nationwides failure to act on clear 
triggers of potential  fraud or financial harm, Mr W would probably have lost no 
money. 
contributory negligence
22.Despite regulatory  safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still 
take responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do not think that Mr W was 
to blame for what happened;  that he did not foresee the risk of this sort of harm or 
any harm. At the time of his trading,  there was information in the public domain 
about this particular trader but you needed to understand  how to locate such  
information, as 72Option  were still in operation. In any event, I do not place  too much  
weight on general but arcane information  in the public domain for reasons previously 
alluded to about the information imbalance  between  financial professionals  and 
ordinary consumers.
23.Up until the point Mr W was prevented from withdrawing funds from his 72Option 
platform, his account  had seemingly been  steadily earning profits  and he had no 
cause for concern.  Unaware that this was one of the common deceptive tactics  of 
scammers, I do not think he could have  foreseen the risk that the company he was 
dealing with was a scam  and the trading account  he was viewing  was likely to be a 
simulation.
24.In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the 
basis that Mr W should share blame for what happened.
Ref: DRN0696358