K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that he continued to receive marketing calls from his former motor  
insurer, esure Insurance Limited (esure),  despite asking it to delete his details from its 
system. He also complained that the confirmation  of no claims discount  (NCD)  letter esure  
generated for him was rude and implied he owed it money.
background
Mr J had a motor insurance policy with esure which he cancelled  on 11 March 2019. He said 
he asked esure to remove his details from its system but despite this he received a number 
of marketing calls after the policy was cancelled- sometimes  four- five calls per day.
He complained to esure who apologised and said it removed his details from only one of its 
systems rather  than from two. Had it done  so he wouldnt have received further  
communications from it. It said it removed his details from both systems and agreed to 
refund the £26 cancellation fee it charged  for cancelling the policy. 
Mr Js complaint was then escalated to another handler who issued a final response letter.  
The letter said that in addition to the £26 refund it would pay him another £50 compensation 
for what had happened. esure  didnt  think it breached any data protection  laws and referred  
Mr J to its privacy  notice- which is in the policy.
There was a delay  in the £50 being  paid to Mr J so he complained again. esure increased its 
offer to £75 which it says it paid within days.
Mr J wasnt happy with esures handling  of his complaint and complained to us. He said the 
calls caused him a lot of stress and he was worried about where his personal details were 
kept. He also wasnt  happy esure delayed paying the compensation it offered. He wanted 
confirmation all his data had been removed,  and compensation  for all the hassle and stress  
as well as esures data protection law breaches.
While we were  considering his complaint, Mr J also told us that when he asked for 
confirmation of his NCD, esure sent a letter which suggested he still owed it money. He 
complained and esure generated another letter which he then sent to his new insurer. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought esure couldve handled  things 
better but that the overall  compensation it offered was sufficient. She also said our role isnt 
to consider whether data protection laws had been breached but whether  esure  acted fairly 
and reasonably. She also didnt think esure  had done anything wrong regarding  the NCD 
letter and that it contained standard wording. 
Mr J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said our investigator failed to 
appreciate how serious the matter was- receiving four-five calls per day as well as 
voicemails and texts- caused him a lot of distress  and annoyance. He said the content  of the 
NCD letter  suggested  that he didnt pay his bills which could discredit him and negatively 
affect his reputation. 
So the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN07831532my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  
As our investigator said, its not our role to decide  whether  data protection  laws have been 
breached by esure. Thats a matter for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Ill go on to consider whether esure  treated Mr J fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
Mr J asked for written confirmation  that his data has been removed. esure said its written to 
Mr J to say that it can still keep his data for business purposes. Mr J said he wasnt  sure he 
received that particular  letter but accepts that he did receive a letter  about  why esure had to 
keep his details.  He hasnt raised any further  points regarding this so Ill go on to consider 
Mr Js other  points.
Mr J said he received four- five calls per day, as well as texts and voicemails from esure  
after he cancelled his policy,  despite  asking for it to remove  his details from its system. esure 
accepts this was an error  and said his details shouldve been  removed from two systems 
rather than one. Both parties  agree  that the calls have since stopped.  
Mr J says the compensation  offered  to him isnt enough for the distress  he suffered. He said 
the £26 cancellation fee was simply a refund and not a new payment.  That may be true but 
esure was entitled  to charge Mr J a cancellation  fee under  the policy terms. So the return  of 
the £26 means  Mr J is still £26 better off as under  normal circumstances this fee wouldve 
been payable.  
Mr J received a further £75 compensation for esures error in continuing to contact him and 
for the delay  in its original offer of £50 being paid to him. I appreciate  Mr J was distressed by 
the communications he was receiving and- as I said above- esure  accepts it made an error  
which it seems  to have rectified when  Mr J complained. In the circumstances I think its offer 
is reasonable. Mr J also says if he hadnt  complained about the £50 not being  paid he 
doesnt know whether  esure wouldve paid it. As a result esure increased the offer to £75. I 
think this was reasonable in the circumstances.  
In relation to the NCD letter, Mr J is unhappy  it said that depending on the method he used 
to pay for his policy there may be a balance to pay and if so, esure would be in touch. He 
also said it wasnt in the correct format. esure said this is standard wording but issued a 
further letter soon  thereafter in a different format-  which I think  is reasonable. I have 
considered the wording  used and I dont think it could harm  Mr Js reputation as he 
suggests. I have  no reason  to doubt  this is standard wording but I also think  its esures  way 
of warning its customers that if there are any payments outstanding it would let them know.  I 
think thats fair and reasonable  and I dont think it suggests Mr J hasnt been  paying his bills. 
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint. I appreciate he will be 
disappointed with my decision but Im here to consider whether esure, as his former insurer,  
treated him fairly and reasonably and in the circumstances I think  it did. 
my final decision
I am not upholding  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN07831533Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0783153