K820x#14complaint
Miss W is unhappy  that Action 365 Ltd didnt  consider her Legal Expenses Insurance  policy  
when dealing with her Personal  Injury  claim.
background
In January 2016, Miss W was involved in a non-fault road traffic  accident. She called  the 
number on her insurance paperwork to report the claim, and this connected her to Action  
365, an Accident Management  Company  (AMC). As part of dealing with her claim, Action 
365 referred Miss W to a firm of solicitors for the Personal Injury  part of the claim.
The relationship between Miss W and the solicitors broke down, and she wanted to appoint 
someone new to deal with the Personal  Injury  claim.  But she was told shed need to pay the 
solicitors their fees so far if she wanted  to do this. Even though  she had a Legal Expenses 
Insurance policy in place.  
Miss W has complained that Action 365 failed to use her Legal Expenses Insurance policy 
and didnt tell the solicitors  about  this. Action 365 didnt agree theyd done  anything wrong. 
So Miss W brought her complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial 
Ombudsman service) for investigation.
Our investigator said the initial  call between Miss W and Action 365 wasnt  available.  So she 
couldnt know exactly what was said. So the investigator relied on the telephone script  Action  
365 provided. This said the solicitors would discuss insurance cover.  Because  of this, the 
investigator didnt  think  it was Action 365s role or responsibility to discuss  this with Miss W. 
So she didnt think theyd  done anything wrong by not doing so.
Miss W didnt agree  with the investigator. She said, as the number on her policy documents 
put her through to Action 365, they shouldve had her policy  details to hand. Including the 
fact that she had a Legal  Expenses Insurance policy.  So she feels  Action 365 had a 
responsibility to tell the solicitors about  this policy.
And Miss W doesnt understand why Action  365 cant provide the phone call but can provide  
the script.  She feels  the script couldve been  produced at any time, so she doesnt trust this 
as evidence. So shes asked for an ombudsman to make  a final decision on her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and while I appreciate  
this will be a disappointment to Miss W; Ive reached  the same  overall  conclusions  as the 
investigator, and for broadly the same  reasons.
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And 
complaints about  AMCs were dealt with by the Legal  Ombudsman.  On 1 April 2019  the 
regulation of AMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because  the events Miss W is complaining about 
took place before this change in regulation, my decision is based  on the approach  the 
Claims Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman wouldve taken. 
Ref: DRN00734762Ive also noted  that Miss Ws is unhappy with the service  she received from the solicitors. 
But Im considering the service provided  by Action  365, not the solicitors. So my decision will 
only address what Action 365 did or didnt do. If Miss W remains  unhappy with the solicitors, 
shell need to raise a complaint with them directly  in the first instance. And then refer this to 
the Legal Ombudsman if she remains dissatisfied.
A copy of the call between Miss W and Action  365 isnt available. When Miss W initially  
spoke to Action 365 there wasnt a requirement  for them  to record  calls or to keep any 
recorded calls.  Because  of this, the lack of call recordings doesnt  mean  Action 365 are 
trying to hide something. And I cant uphold a complaint on the lack of call recordings alone.  
I have to rely on what both parties have told me and make my decision on what  I believe is 
more likely to have  happened.
Action 365 have provided a call script,  where they tell customers that the solicitors  will 
discuss funding options with them. I agree with Miss W that this particular script may not 
have been in place at the time of their initial call in 2016. Its also the case  that, even if this 
particular script was in place, the person Miss W spoke to may not have followed the script 
exactly. So, from the script alone,  Im not convinced that Miss W was told the solicitors  would  
discuss funding options with her.
But solicitors  have  an obligation to discuss funding options with clients. And, even if Action 
365 had told them Miss W had a Legal Expenses Insurance  policy, the solicitors would still 
have needed to consider  this, and whether it specifically covered the work they were looking 
to do (not all Legal  Expenses  Insurance policies cover the same things, so the solicitors 
would need to establish the extent of cover).  So, even  if theyd  known about  the policy,  they 
wouldve needed to discuss  this with Miss W anyway.
So regardless of what Action 365 did or didnt  do, the responsibility to discuss  funding  
options was the solicitors  responsibility, not Action  365s. Because of this I cant say that 
Action 365 have done anything wrong. Regardless of what they wouldve done, the solicitors 
would still have needed to discuss funding with Miss W. And I cant hold Action  365 
responsible if the solicitors failed to do this. So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint about Action 365 Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0073476