K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains Prestige Finance Limited gave him the wrong bank details  stopping  him 
making a payment to them and was unhelpful when he spoke  to them.  Mr C wants Prestige 
Finance Limited  to remove  the possession order it has against his property.
background
Mr C took out a loan from Prestige Finance  in 2007. The loan was secured against Mr Cs 
property by way of a second charge. He got into arrears in 2008 and Prestige Finance took 
him to Court.  Mr C says that he agreed  to pay just over £170 a month  towards his loan as a 
result of the Court action.  He says he kept up with these payments for almost 10 years.
Prestige Finance says that Mr C told them  in October 2017 that he had put his property up 
for sale. A month later Prestige Finance says Mr C stopped  making payments towards his 
loan. Mr C says he had to take time off work to help a member of his family. Prestige 
Finance wrote to Mr C about  the payments hed missed saying that hed need to bring his 
account back up to date. Prestige Finance says Mr C continued to miss payments  and his 
arrears continued  to build up. So it decided to apply to the Courts  for a possession  order.
Mr C was unhappy with Prestige Finance applying for a possession  order. He said that he 
had a buyer for his property and that Prestige Finance would get its money  back. Mr C says 
Prestige Finance agreed to suspend the hearing if he made a payment by 30 November 
2018. Mr C says he made the payment  Prestige  Finance asked for  it wasnt received by 
Prestige Finance because Mr C used the wrong  sort code   but Prestige  Finance still went 
ahead with the hearing and obtained  a possession  order. Mr C complained about this saying  
that Prestige Finance  had given him the wrong sort code, amongst other things.
Prestige Finance investigated Mr Cs complaint, in particular his complaint that it had given 
him the wrong  sort code.  Prestige Finance didnt accept that it had given Mr C the wrong sort 
code. It did, however, accept that it should  have  called Mr C back to let him know that his 
payment hadnt  been received, and that Mr C had been given incorrect information  about the 
timescales involved in a complaint. It offered Mr C £100  in compensation. Mr C was unhappy 
with Prestige Finances  response and complained to us saying that Prestige Finance had 
admitted making  mistakes and so should  remove the possession order.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. They said that 
were not able to overturn  a decision of the Courts and that hed seen  no evidence to 
suggest that Mr C had made any payments  to Prestige Finances correct account.  They  also 
said that Prestige  Finance  hadnt  acted unfairly in any event as it had given Mr C multiple  
chances to pay off the arrears. Mr C wasnt happy with our investigators recommendations 
and wanted an ombudsman to look into his complaint. He also wanted the ombudsman to 
listen to the calls between  Prestige Finance and himself.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to over 30 calls between Mr C and Prestige Finance and between Prestige 
Finance and the estate agents and lawyers Mr C says were acting on his behalf. Having 
done so, I can understand why Mr C found  his dealings with Prestige  Finance frustrating. 
Ref: DRN00818932Mr C is right that he was meant  to get a call back if the payment he agreed to make  on 30 
November wasnt received. His payment wasnt received  because Mr C used  the wrong 
sort code   yet he didnt  get a call back. Thats  important  because Prestige Finance had 
agreed it would adjourn the hearing  if it received the payment and so said it would adjourn 
the hearing if it didnt  call Mr C back.  Im happy  to give Mr C the benefit of the doubt and 
accept that he believed his payment had been received because  he didnt get a call back. 
Im also happy to accept  that he didnt find out until 4 December 2018:
a)that his payment hadnt been  received;  and
b)that Prestige Finance  had gone ahead with the hearing and obtained a possession 
order.
Mr C was very upset about  this, and rightly so. But I agree with our investigator that this 
wouldnt be reason  enough to say that Prestige Finance acted unfairly  when it applied  to the 
Court for a possession order and went ahead and obtained one. Ill explain why.
Mr C started missing  payments  in October 2017 meaning the arrears on his loan started to 
build up. He hasnt made  a payment since November 2017.  Hes been saying since January 
2018 that the sale of his house  should  be completing shortly, and that hes got a buyer. The 
house still hasnt  sold, however, and when Prestige Finance finally  spoke to the estate 
agents and solicitors Mr C said hed instructed they both told Prestige Finance that, for 
example, contracts  hadnt even been exchanged  let alone a completion  date set. Mr C had 
found a buyer, and a memorandum of sale had been agreed, but it looks  like he then went 
into hospital for several months and was uncontactable. In other  words,  Mr C gave Prestige 
Finance the impression that his property  was about  to be sold so it would get its money  
back, but when Prestige  Finance checked  the information Mr C had given turned out to be 
optimistic at best. Mr C then complained that hed spoken to a member  of staff at Prestige  
Finance who had agreed a repayment  plan with him and taken his income and expenditure 
details when, having listened  to the calls myself,  I can see that this is not what happened.
The first time Prestige Finance agreed  a repayment  plan with Mr C is on 20 November 2018. 
That plan involved Mr C paying  over £350 a month so that the arrears on his account would 
be cleared within twelve months. Mr C subsequently spoke to a manager and they agreed 
that this repayment  plan wasnt affordable. The manager instead offered  a repayment plan 
that involved Mr C paying just over £170  a month.  That was on 29 November 2018. Again, 
Ive listened to that call. That offer was based on the assumption that the sale would be 
going ahead shortly,  and that Mr C would be able to pay just over £170  a month every month 
going forwards. Prestige  Finance contacted the estate agent and solicitors that Mr C said 
hed instructed after the call, and again found out that Mr Cs property wasnt about to be 
sold. The solicitors told Prestige Finance that they hadnt been instructed yet  all Mr C had 
done was ask for a quote  and the estate  agents told Prestige Finance that the person who 
had been interested in buying  Mr Cs property had bought elsewhere  because of the delays 
in the sale going ahead. That would have worried Prestige Finance  again what Mr C was 
telling them didnt  match  what was actually  happening on the ground.
Mr C said to Prestige Finance that he would try and recover the payment hed made  to the 
wrong sort code. He hasnt shown any evidence that hes done this, nor has he made any 
further payments  towards his loan. His house has still not sold, and theres  nothing  to 
suggest that theres been any progress on that front. Prestige Finance has given, and 
continues to give, Mr C plenty of opportunities to agree a repayment plan and demonstrate 
that he can stick to it, but he hasnt  been  able to show he can. That was the case  before the 
Ref: DRN00818933hearing went ahead. In the circumstances, I dont  agree Prestige Finance acted unfairly 
when it went ahead  with the hearing and obtained a possession  order. So I agree that this 
complaint isnt one I can fairly uphold.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0081893