K820x#14complaint
Mr F says HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
Mr F bought  the policy in 2004 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
I think that HSBC made Mr F aware  he had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it.
Unfortunately, there is little documentary evidence about Mr Fs sale.  But I dont find this 
surprising as the sale was 15 years ago and the policy was cancelled  less than a year later.  
But Mr F recalls  that the sale was made  over the phone. And from what  we know of HSBCs 
sales practice at the time, after the phone  call Mr F would have been sent a credit card 
application and product  information pack. And the application would have included a 
separate section  referring to the Cardholder Repayment Protector   the PPI  and would 
have required a separate signature from the credit agreement itself in order for the PPI to 
have been added to the account. 
Using what we know generally about  HSBCs sales practices at the time, I cant  agree with 
Mr Fs recollection  that he wasnt given a choice about taking the PPI  he opted to take it 
upon receipt of the credit  agreement. 
Mr F has said that he was advised  to take the policy. But based  on information provided  I 
cant see that any tailored  or personalised recommendations were made by HSBC to Mr F at 
the time of the sale. As a result, I think its most  likely  the policy was sold to him on a non-
advised basis. 
As I think  its more likely HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F, it didnt have to check if it 
was right for him. But HSBC did have to give Mr F enough information  to decide if the PPI 
was right for him. We know that a sales script  would have been used but I havent seen a 
copy of this so its not possible  to show me whether Mr F was given all of the information  he 
would have needed to make an informed  decision about taking the policy. 
So its possible that the information  HSBC  gave Mr F about PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr F doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  things the 
policy didnt cover  a pre-existing medical  condition  as an example.
Ref: DRN02297492And based on what I know about Mr Fs circumstances it looks  like the policy could have 
been useful to him. In the event Mr F made  a successful claim if he wasnt  able to work  
because of accident, sickness or unemployment,  the policy would have paid 10% of the 
outstanding balance per month,  and for up to 12 months per claim. It also included life cover.  
Mr F has told us about his savings and employee  benefits but the policy would have paid out 
over and above any employee benefits  he may have received. It would have meant he could 
have used those  benefits for other  essential outgoings in what  could have been a difficult 
time. And his savings  could have remained intact.  So I dont think that better information 
would have put Mr F off taking out the cover. 
Ive taken into account Mr Fs comments, including what he said about not being given 
enough information before taking the policy or that he wasnt  given a choice. And Ive 
addressed his comments about having sufficient employee benefits and savings to have  not 
needed the policy.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So HSBC doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr F paid for it. But HSBC has already offered to give Mr F back some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand HSBC  has already paid this to Mr F.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0229749