K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way that his home  insurance claim to Legal  & General Insurance  
Limited (L&G) for water  damage  to his home was handled and with the settlement offered to 
him.
background
In March 2018 Mr S suffered water  damage  to his home due to a burst pipe. L&G agreed  to 
put him in alternative accommodation,  initially a hotel. L&Gs loss adjusters visited  the 
property and advised carrying out a full site survey, as they were concerned about the 
overall condition  of the house. This was carried out in May 2018  the report advised that the 
property was in a poor state of repair and suffering  from damp unrelated to the escape of 
water. L&G had also identified that asbestos needed  removing from the property before any 
drying out could  take place. 
The asbestos removal was completed around the end of May and L&G instructed a drying 
company to install dryers.  But when that company attended it identified  that further strip out 
was needed. But the parts to be stripped out werent  related to the water damage.  L&G 
decided that it could only settle  the claim by way of a cash settlement. This was because a 
substantial amount of the repairs needed to the building  werent related to the claim.  Mr S 
obtained an estimate from a builder  for £63,800 exclusive of VAT.  But this included a 
complete new bathroom and kitchen   items which L&G deemed not to need replacing due 
to the water  leak. L&G assessed the damaged parts of the property which  it thought it was 
liable for. It offered  Mr S £15,666.99.
Mr S was unhappy with the settlement and also with the delays, miscommunications for 
leaving his property in a poor state  and for causing him problems with alternative  
accommodation. L&G agreed that it had provided  a less than desired level of service and 
offered Mr S total compensation of £250.
After referral to this service our investigator  requested L&G to make a payment  on account 
and in November  2018 it duly paid the settlement it had proposed.  Our investigator  also 
suggested that it increase the compensation payment  to £400 which L&G didnt object to.
Mr S was unhappy with this pointing out that he had been caused  a lot of stress by L&Gs 
actions and that his home  had diminished  in value. I understand that the house  has now 
been repossessed  by Mr Ss mortgage  provider.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
delay
Mr S complains that L&G delayed in dealing with his claim pointing out that if it had started  
dealing with the repairs/drying out straightaway  it wouldnt  have had to waste so much 
money on his staying in alternative accommodation.
Ref: DRN09593592There were delays in dealing with this claim, but it was complicated by the fact that the 
property was in such a poor state of repair before the water leak happened. I think  its 
reasonable to rely on the expert survey report.  I know Mr S says the property didnt suffer  
from damp prior to the water leak but the expert report says it did. In particular it identified 
substantial areas of rot.
The asbestos report was available from 18 April, but the asbestos  wasnt  noted  as cleared 
until 29 May. This was a long time but it was complicated this time by the fact that Mr S had 
furniture that was likely contaminated with asbestos and he didnt have contents insurance. 
The drying company  decided  it couldnt do the drying out because of the extra strip out 
needed and the settlement couldnt be agreed.  I think this could  have been  identified earlier.
More importantly I dont  think  L&G should  have put the claim on hold once Mr S made a 
complaint to this service.  It could have offered to pay the settlement on account once it was 
clear that Mr S didnt  accept it in full settlement. So I think there were  some avoidable 
delays, these would have added to Mr S's stress at the time of being out of his home.
poor communication
Its clear from the papers  that Mr S had to call L&G and/or its loss adjusters a number of 
times to request updates  and that he was unaware of what  was happening  with the claim. 
He also said he had to go back to his property for an appointment  with the loss adjusters and 
sat on his drive for four hours only for no-one to turn up. I think  this was poor service and will 
take it into account in the compensation award.
alternative accommodation
Mr S was asked to collect keys for rented accommodation which had been arranged. But 
when he arrived at the letting agents office he was told the keys had been  taken.  I 
understand that this was due to a mix up between the loss adjusters and the agents. I agree 
that it was poor service  to Mr S and which caused him inconvenience.
the settlement
Mr S feels  that his builders quote  for the settlement should have been accepted. He points 
out that all the electrics  were damaged so L&G cant say only parts  of the property  were  
damaged.
Again I have to consider the survey report which is the only expert  evidence  available. It 
identified the following:
The property hadnt been routinely maintained and was in a poor state of repair.  
All external  timber  windows and frames were  severely rotten. 
The back  door was heavily rotten. 
The exposed ends  of rafters were starting  to split due to age and weathering. 
Vegetation growth was occurring to the front leaded valley,  to the chimney  stack,  and to 
the rear rainwater hopper to the right-hand side of the rear living  room  window. 
The masonry paint to the right-hand gable wall was severely discoloured and showing  
signs of thermal cracking to the render. 
There was a vertical crack  to the render underneath the first floor front right hand 
bedroom window  which is mirrored  internally.
Ref: DRN09593593There is evidence of damp to the kitchen walls and floor, to the downstairs WC and store 
room
The report  went on to identify the areas  that needed  repairing.  But in particular it said that 
the bathroom wasnt affected by the leak and any damage to kitchen units was pre-existing.
So it does appear  that the property was in a poor state. Items such as rot wouldnt have 
been caused by the water leak. Mr Ss builder  estimated for a complete new kitchen and 
bathroom when  these areas  werent  affected.  I appreciate what Mr S says about the electrics 
but again I have to refer back to the survey report which determined what parts  of the 
property were affected by the leak.
Overall I think  that L& G did its best in the circumstances  to identify the repairs it thought  it 
should pay for, and has done so. I also think it was reasonable of it to offer a cash  settlement  
as it wouldnt be possible for its contractors just to repair the parts damaged  by water.  Im 
sorry that Mr S had to give up possession  of his property. And I understand  that he felt he 
couldnt afford the repairs outside the insurance  claim. But L&G isnt liable to put right issues  
caused by poor maintenance.  So I think the settlement paid to Mr S was reasonable.
state of the property
Mr S says a temporary circuit board was put up and then no drying was done. He says there  
were bare wires He also says lino and hazardous  material were left outside the property.  I 
dont think any hazardous material was left outside  the asbestos removal company would 
operate under very strict safety standards to make sure any waste  was safely  removed. I 
have seen a photo of the lino and agree that was an inconvenience. But I have to bear in 
mind that the property  was left in the expectation  that repairs  would  commence. 
compensation
Mr S was given a poor service in respect  of parts of his claim as Ive identified above.  In 
particular he was caused stress in having to chase up the claim when he was out of his 
home and I can understand the distress  that caused him. This was quite a serious escape of 
water and it was unfortunately inevitable that it would  cause  Mr S severe disruption. I can 
however only award compensation  for any additional distress or inconvenience  caused by 
any poor handling of the claim by L&G or its agents.  £400 was proposed by our investigator, 
an increase of £150 over and above  that offered by L&G.  I think, bearing in mind the 
compensation we have  awarded in similar  cases that £400 is reasonable.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Legal & General  Insurance  Limited to pay to Mr S 
£400 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019. 
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0959359