K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the delays that hes experienced in receiving a debit card for his 
account with Nationwide  Building  Society. 
background
Mr B has an account with Nationwide. His debit card was due to expire  in October 2018 so 
because he lives overseas he asked it to send him a replacement  card in April 2018. 
Nationwide says that the card was sent to Mr B but he didnt receive it. He complained to 
Nationwide and it credited £50 compensation to his account. But Mr B wasnt satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service and says that he should receive £500 
compensation plus a further £10,000  to punish Nationwide.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He couldnt see that 
Nationwide had made reasonable attempts to provide  Mr B with a replacement card - only 
one attempt had been made to send out a new card and hed received no evidence  that 
Nationwide had made any attempt to ensure that Mr B received  a replacement card within  a 
reasonable time (taking into account  his previous complaints regarding  the same  issue and 
his complaint to this service). And he recommended that it should pay Mr B £200 
compensation for the poor service hed received and the trouble and upset  hed been  
caused.
Nationwide has accepted the investigators  recommendation but says that it will be unable to 
issue Mr B a new card until he updates his address with it. Mr B has asked for his complaint 
to be considered by an ombudsman.  He received the new debit card in August 2019  but 
hes currently in a different country   and he says,  in summary, that hes been  the victim of 
poor customer service and discrimination because he lives in a different country. And he 
says that he should receive  a written explanation and apology  for Nationwides actions, 
suitable compensation and a guarantee that hell be treated far better next time around.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We offer an informal dispute  resolution 
service and have no regulatory or disciplinary role over any financial businesses.  So Im 
unable to require  any of them to change the way that it conducts its business. And our role 
isnt to punish a business if its done something wrong. So I wont  be requiring Nationwide  to 
make any payment to Mr B to punish  it for the issues that he says hes experienced.
But there have  clearly been  some issues with Mr B receiving a debit card from Nationwide.  
Mr Bs debit  card was due to expire  in October  2018  and, because of issues  that hed 
experienced in the past, he asked  it to send him a replacement car in April 2018. It says that 
it sent him a replacement  card in September 2018 but Mr B says that he didnt receive it. He 
complained to Nationwide and it upheld  his complaint in part in November 2018  and credited 
£50 to his account. Mr B then complained to this service. The investigator couldnt see that 
Nationwide had made reasonable attempts to provide  Mr B with a replacement card and he 
recommended that it should pay Mr B £200 compensation. Nationwide has agreed to that 
recommendation.
Mr B received a replacement card in August 2018   so was without a debit card for ten 
months. That will have undoubtedly caused  him considerable  frustration and distress  and 
Ref: DRN02706382inconvenience. And I consider that Nationwide  shouldve  done more than it did to ensure 
that Mr B received a replacement card more promptly.  
But Mr B was able to use other payments  methods and Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence  to show that he suffered a financial loss as a result of the delay in the card 
being received.  Nor am I persuaded  that Nationwide has discriminated against  Mr B. And I 
unable to require  it to make any guarantees about how hell receive future cards.  
I consider that payments totalling £250  are fair and reasonable compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  that Mr B has been  caused  and Im not persuaded that a higher award  
of compensation  is justified in these circumstances. Nationwide has already paid £50 
compensation to Mr B. So I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Nationwide to pay 
him a further £200 compensation.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. And I order 
Nationwide Building  Society to pay £200  to Mr B to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience that hes been caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0270638