K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) are pursuing him for a 
shortfall on a mortgage despite not being able to provide  a signed copy  of the guarantee. 
Mr G has been helped  with his complaint by a representative, but for ease of reading  Ill refer 
to all submissions as having been  made by Mr G himself. 
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. NatWest are pursing Mr G for around £30,000. This is the shortfall  
outstanding following the repossession and sale of a house upon which Mr Gs daughter and 
her partners mortgage was secured. 
NatWest say Mr G was a guarantor for the mortgage  which  means its reasonable for them 
to pursue him for the outstanding amount.  But NatWest have been unable to provide a 
personal guarantee signed by Mr G. Mr G says he doesnt recall  signing a guarantee and 
that he should have no liability, so he complained.
His complaint outlined that:
he was unhappy  with being  pursued  for the outstanding balance, particularly when he 
wasnt party to a re-mortgage that had taken place.
hed requested evidence of the signed  guarantee  which hasnt been provided, so he 
didnt believe the balance could be pursued. 
He was unhappy with the lack of communication from NatWest.
NatWest responded  to the complaint but didnt  uphold  it. So Mr G referred  the matter  to our 
service. One of our investigators initially concluded  that the complaint had been referred to 
us too late under the Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCA) rules. Following the involvement of 
one of my ombudsman colleagues,  it was agreed that our service only had the power to 
consider whether or not it was reasonable for NatWest to pursue Mr G without having a 
signed copy of the guarantee. The other aspects of his complaint had been referred to us too 
late. 
Our investigator went on to consider the merits of Mr Gs complaint. She concluded that 
there was sufficient evidence to support  that Mr G had acted as a guarantor.  And on that 
basis she thought  it was reasonable for NatWest to pursue him. Mr G doesnt accept this 
and has asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr G, 
so let me explain why.
As our investigator has already explained, I cant make a finding  as to whether or not the 
debt is enforceable   that would be better decided by a court. I can only consider whether its 
Ref: DRN04125622fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  for NatWest to pursue Mr G for the outstanding 
amount  without  having a signed copy  of the guarantee. 
Ive not seen evidence of a signed  guarantee, but this doesnt  necessarily mean  that one 
doesnt or didnt  exist.  Our investigators view explained all the reasons why she was 
persuaded that, on balance, Mr G had acted as a guarantor. I dont intend  to repeat all of this 
evidence. But Ive reviewed all the evidence that was listed  and Im similarly persuaded by it. 
The key evidence that I find most persuasive is:
On the original mortgage application from 2006  there are three applicants noted,
Mr G, his daughter and her (then) partner.  NatWest have also provided a system 
note from November 2006 which states  Telephone message  solicitor advised that 
Mr G should be guarantor  not applicant, please revise  offer to reflect this.
NatWest received a letter dated  18 January 2010 from the second applicant  
confirming hed separated from Mr Gs daughter and stating that he didnt give his 
permission for Mr G to be removed from the mortgage as a guarantor. 
On 25 January 2010 NatWest wrote to Mr Gs daughter  saying that they had received 
conflicting instructions  and that until a course  of action was agreed the mortgage 
account would remain in joint names supported by a Guarantor.
In 2011 NatWest received a signed  letter  from Mr G asking that they provide copies 
of any documents  hed signed  in relation to the mortgage. 
Taking everything into consideration, I think its more likely than not that Mr G had acted as a 
guarantor for the mortgage in question. Ive not seen evidence to suggest  that he was ever 
discharged from this.  Ive  also not seen any evidence to suggest that there  was any other 
party acting as a guarantor. Mr Gs letter from 2011 suggests that he knew hed signed 
something in relation  to the mortgage  and I think its more likely than not that this was a 
personal guarantee. 
Based on this, I dont  think  NatWest  pursuing Mr G for the outstanding  amount, despite not 
having a signed copy of the guarantee, is unreasonable or unfair. But I make  no findings  as 
to the enforceability  of the debt without a signed personal guarantee. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0412562