K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained about Advantage Insurance Company  Limiteds handling of his car 
insurance policy.
background
Mr O was involved in an accident in mid-November  2017.  He didnt claim on his policy  until 
the end of January 2018. 
Before Mr O claimed on his policy, he had some of the repairs  to his car done privately. 
Advantage told him that he shouldnt have  anymore work done  without  their authorisation. 
They said they would look to reimburse  him for the repairs he paid for privately.  Mr O wanted 
the outstanding repairs to be done  by Advantage under his policy.
During his dealings with Advantage, Mr O complained about a number of things he wasnt  
happy about. Advantage accepted their service could have been better, so they offered Mr O 
a total of £175 compensation.  But they didnt uphold his complaints about the repairs  and 
reimbursement.
Mr O didn't think that Advantage had treated him fairly, so he brought  his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He felt that Advantage had dealt  with 
Mr O fairly. As Mr O didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint  has been passed  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr O, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr O has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered  all those  
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Advantage have dealt with Mr O in a fair and reasonable way.
claim notification
Mr O said that when  he claimed on his policy in January 2018, there was confusion  as 
Advantage lost his claim so he had to log it again, but when he did so they logged it against  
the wrong car. Advantage said the confusion arose  because when Mr O initially told them  he 
wanted to change the registration number on his car, they said they asked him for further 
information for that to be done,  but he didnt provide it. So it appears that Mr O changed  his 
registration number  without Advantage being  aware and the policy  not being updated.
It would appear that when  the accident  happened in November 2017,  Mr O was told by the 
police that his car didnt appear  to be insured.  So Mr O contacted Advantage in November 
2017. He told them about the accident, but said he didnt  want to claim on his policy.  He also 
asked them to clarify why no insurance was showing on his car. I think  the confusion was 
caused because  Mr O didnt give Advantage the information they asked for, so Im not 
upholding this part of the complaint.
policy excess
Ref: DRN03675712When Advantage agreed to reimburse Mr O what they deemed to be relevant costs he paid 
for in repairing  his car before  he claimed  on his policy, they told him he would have to pay an 
excess of £695.  Mr O wasnt  happy  with being asked to pay an excess  because he said the 
other driver was at fault for the accident.  But, as Advantage  explained, the policy  says when 
a claim is made, irrespective of who was at fault for the accident, Mr O would have to pay 
the excess.
Advantage told Mr O that after he paid the excess he could  claim it back  from the other  
driver as it was an uninsured loss, in other words something that he couldnt claim under 
his own policy. To help Mr O, Advantage said that they offered him the services of their 
solicitor to assist with the recovery  of the excess from the other driver. I think that was 
reasonable. Im therefore not upholding  this part of the complaint.
bodywork repair  and machine polish
Advantage told Mr O that once the accident  related  bodywork repairs were  completed,  they 
would machine polish only those parts. Mr O said he wanted  the whole car machine polished 
to avoid there being two tones of colour.  Advantage refused to do that saying to polish the 
whole car would lead to betterment, in other words putting Mr Os car in a better state than 
it was before. The policy specifically said cover isnt provided for work leading  to 
improvement of the cars condition.
Mr O said that he had a lifetime polish guarantee that cost him £1,000. He said machine 
polishing the car would invalidate that guarantee and that he would  in fact be put in a worse 
position. To maintain the guarantee, once repairs were carried  out a special protection would 
have to be applied  to the repaired  areas. Advantage said they were  prepared to consider 
that, but Mr O would have  to provide  the guarantee number first. They  also asked Mr O for 
proof of purchase of the guarantee. It later became clear that the guarantee  was bought by a 
past owner, not Mr O. And the guarantee only covered the owner  who bought  it and didnt 
get transferred  when  the car was sold on to Mr O. Advantage therefore said there  was no 
guarantee in existence that would  be invalidated  in the event they repaired the damage and 
machine polished it. I therefore  think  Advantage only undertaking to repair and polish the 
areas damaged by the accident  was reasonable.
wheels
Two of Mr Os wheels were damaged during the accident. Before he claimed on his policy he 
bought and had fitted four new replacement wheels. Hastings offered to either pay for the 
repair of the two damaged wheels or pay for two of the new wheels Mr O had bought,  which 
I think was reasonable.  Mr O said he wanted the two original wheels repaired. 
Advantage had the two wheels repaired and returned to Mr O. He then had tyres fitted to 
them and had the two repaired wheels put back onto his car. But when his wheels were 
balanced, his garage told Mr O the wheels were dangerous and he risked being involved
in an accident.  Mr O was understandably  upset. Hastings said that as they only had the 
wheels, after they repaired them  without  the tyres or the car their repairer wasnt able to 
balance them. Advantage therefore reimbursed Mr O for two of the four wheels he had 
originally bought.
Advantage have  agreed to pay for the cost of balancing the refurbished  wheels  on being 
provided with a copy of the receipt,  which I think is reasonable.
Ref: DRN03675713I understand Mr O said he located other wheels suitable for his car that he wanted 
Advantage to pay for. But given Advantage have paid to repair  the two damaged wheels and 
they reimbursed Mr O for the two new wheels he bought, I dont think  it would be reasonable 
to expect them to pay for another  set of wheels. I think  Advantage have been  reasonable so 
Im not asking them to do anything  further.
leather seat
When his car was returned  to him Mr O said there was damage  to the base of the passenger  
side leather seat.  The damage could be described as a tear or split. He said that was caused 
while the car was under  the care of Advantages repairer. But Advantage have  said that their 
repairer didnt cause the damage and that they had no reason to access the passenger side 
sear.
Advantage said that when the car was given to them the two wheels that needed repair  had 
been left by Mr O on the passenger side seat.  So Advantage said that it was possible the 
damage was caused that way. Mr O disputed that and said he never  left the wheels on the 
seat. Mr O said he wanted Advantage to replace the leather by recoating the seat.
Although Advantage havent accepted liability, they have  agreed to spend up to £193.53 to 
repair the seat. That is the estimated cost given by an independent engineer who examined  
the seat. I think Advantages offer is reasonable.
While Mr O is unhappy with the way he has been  dealt with, and while I think certain things 
did go wrong, I think Advantage have been  fair and reasonable  in how they have dealt with 
Mr O. I think the £175 compensation offered by Advantage  is reasonable. Advantage have 
also reimbursed Mr O with what he spent on the car before claiming on his policy; they paid 
to replace his battery at a cost of £82; they have agreed to have the leather seat repaired  up 
to a cost of £193.53; and they have  agreed to pay the cost of balancing the repaired wheels.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
   
Ref: DRN0367571