K820x#14complaint
Miss W complained - through  her representative  - that she was mis-sold a store card 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL)  
has taken responsibility  for this complaint.
background
Miss W took out the PPI in July 2001 alongside a store card.  FICL said that the sale took 
place in store, and that Miss W wasnt advised  to take the PPI. Miss W thought the sale had 
taken place by phone.  She complained that she wasnt given a choice about taking the 
policy.
The policy cost £1.00 for each  £100 Miss W owed on her store card.  It provided  life, 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Miss W. If shed successfully claimed on the 
policy, each month it wouldve paid out 15% of what she owed on the card when she 
stopped working.  This wouldve carried on until she returned to work or the balance  was 
cleared. The policy also included price and purchase protection  cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that the policy  was mis-sold. 
So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss Ws representative has raised  a number  of points about commission payable on the 
PPI. However these are matters for the lender. I cannot consider them in this decision,  as 
this complaint is against the underwriter of the PPI policy,  on whose behalf the seller was 
acting at the point of sale. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ws complaint.  Ill explain why.
I have a copy of Miss Ws store card application. From whats  on the form I think  the sale 
took place in a store as FICL said. I can see from the form that she signed  separately from 
her signature for the card itself - to say that she wanted to take out the PPI. I think she could 
just have left this section of the form blank if she didnt want the insurance  theres nothing 
on the form to suggest that she had to have  it. So I think Miss W most likely was given a 
choice about the PPI, and that she decided to take it. Given  that this was nearly 18 years 
ago, and memories fade with time, I think she probably just doesnt remember doing so.
FICL didnt  advise Miss W to take out the PPI. But it should still have given her enough 
information for her to decide if the policy was right for her. I think FICL couldve explained the 
cost and benefits more clearly,  but I dont think this wouldve changed Miss Ws decision to 
take out the PPI. 
As the sale took place in-store, I cant know how the salesperson  explained the policy. The 
cost of the policy was shown  very briefly on the application form as a penny in the pound of 
the monthly balance.  Theres  a reference to a separate document with more information,  but 
Ref: DRN01351372FICL didnt  send in a copy of this. I have a copy of the PPI policy, but FICL  said that this 
wouldve been sent out after the sale. So I cant know what  information Miss W might  have 
had available  to her when she took out the card and PPI. I also cant say whether the 
salesperson clearly pointed out the main  things the policy  doesnt  cover,  although I dont 
think Miss W wouldve been  affected  by any of these.
Miss W said she was working part time in 2001. When we asked her for more  information 
about this she said she was working  for 16 hours per week   so she met the eligibility  
condition about  working hours and wouldve been  able to benefit from the cover.  
Miss W told us that, when she took out the policy, she wouldve been entitled to sick pay 
from her employer, but couldnt remember  how much. She also said that her partner 
wouldve helped out if she was in difficulties. But their circumstances couldve changed so I 
dont think their help couldve been guaranteed. On balance, I think  Miss W couldve found it 
difficult to make the card repayments once her sick pay ended  or if she lost her job. So I 
think the PPI couldve  provided a useful benefit.
Overall, although I dont think FICL fully explained the policy, Im not satisfied that Miss W 
would have acted  differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It wouldve provided 
useful protection  for her if she couldnt  work.  This means Miss W isnt worse  off as a result of 
what FICL did wrong, so theres nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0135137