K821x#15complaint
In summary,  Mr D has complained that the advice  given  to him by IPP Financial Services  
LLP to transfer out of his former employers final salary occupational pension  scheme (OPS)  
into a personal pension (PP) was unsuitable.
background
In 2007 IPP gave  a presentation to staff at Mr Ds former employer about the company 
pension scheme. In summary  the presentation set out the potential  impact on members  if the 
scheme had to apply  for pension protection fund support (PPF). And it talked about the 
benefits of transferring to a personal  pension and the flexibility that might provide. It also said 
that individual advice could be offered if required, which  was subsidised by the employer.
In 2008 Mr D met with one of IPPs advisers. His financial circumstances were recorded.  In 
summary this noted that: 
His employers final salary pension  scheme was being closed  down and being  
replaced by a group personal  pension  plan (GPP) which he would be joining.
He had preserved final salary benefits  in the local government  pension scheme. 
He and his wife had an ISA investment valued at £6,762.
His attitude to risk (ATR) was recorded  as moderately adventurous and pension  
planning was a priority  for him.
He had indicated  on the attitude to risk profiler that the investment he was 
considering, formed  more than 75% of his total assets excluding  his home.
He would like in todays terms an income of between £10  12,000 a year in 
retirement.
Following on from this meeting, IPP commissioned the preparation of a pension  transfer 
value analysis report (TVAS).  In summary this gave a breakdown of the pension  benefits 
provided by Mr Ds OPS. It also gave an analysis of the projected  pension provided by 
Mr Ds OPS with the fund value that might be provided by the proposed  receiving PP. 
The results  showed  that the investments in the suggested PP would need to obtain  an 
estimated investment return  (critical yield) of 9.27% (without taking a tax-free cash lump 
sum); in order to provide  benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits  provided by the 
OPS. The critical  yield was 8.75% if a tax-free cash lump sum was taken.
Following on from this report  IPP then prepared a pension transfer  suitability report  (PTSR). 
This report took into account the information recorded by IPP about Mr Ds financial 
circumstances and objectives, together with the documentation and information obtained 
about the OPS  together with the analysis set out in the TVAS.
IPPs recommendation  was that Mr D should  transfer his OPS  into a PP. And the report  in 
summary, recorded that Mr D had concerns  about the poor funding  of the scheme, the 
position of the schemes sponsoring employer in the UK, and the benefits potentially payable  
by the Pension  Protection Fund  (PPF)  if the scheme  went into default.
In response to Mr Ds complaint about the advice he had been given, IPP explained why it 
didnt agree that the advice had been  unsuitable.  In particular,  it said that the transfer  had 
been recommended  as Mr D had been concerned about the future  prospects of the 
employers scheme. And it quoted from the reasoning set out in its PTSR.
Ref: DRN07857412Mr Ds complaint was looked  into by one of our investigators.  He accepted  that Mr D may 
have been concerned about his financial future and the period of instability his employer was 
going through. And that as a result  he would want to seek  advice about his options.
He explained  why he thought the advice to transfer  the OPS  into a PP was unsuitable. 
IPP didnt agree with the investigators  assessment. In summary it said:
There were  factual  inaccuracies and misunderstandings about the case.
The latest pension  scheme funding report showed that the scheme was only 68% 
funded on a buyout basis. And it was looking vulnerable.
The scheme sponsoring employer had been sold to a venture capital firm which  had 
refused to take on the final salary scheme due to a large funding  deficit.
A new GPP had already been  set up when IPP gave its presentation and employees 
had been left with deferred benefits  in the OPS.
There had been a mistake in the suitability report provided to Mr D. The TVAS it had 
provided to the service  showed the correct critical yield figures.  
In the correct TVAS  report  the critical yield was 8.4% pa if no TFC was taken. 
7.87%  pa if TFC was taken, 8.27% pa if PPF involved and no TFC taken and 7.78% 
if the PPF was involved and TFC taken.  
It was concerned this hadnt been spotted and thought too much  emphasis had been 
given in the findings, to the importance  of the critical yield figures.  
Its report hadnt said the OPS was only 68% funded.
It thought the investigator was biased and looking to uphold the complaint.
The triennial scheme report had not been  obtained when the investigator had said 
this was important.  And Mr Ds new IFA hadnt  been contacted.
The complaint  had been initiated by another IFA and should have been raised when 
Mr D changed advisers.
It asked that the triennial report be obtained.
It didnt agree that the critical yield figures  were too high.
It didnt agree with the investigators  thinking  about the level of risk Mr D could take. 
He had 17 years to build up his pension  before  retirement and had other pension 
resources to fall back on.
The investigators logic ignored  the main  driver  for the transfer  which was securing 
money from the scheme as Mr D had no confidence in the former  employer or the 
long-term viability of the scheme.
Mr Ds complaint was passed  to me for review. I asked the investigator to ask IPP if it 
consented to this service  looking into the complaint. It didnt and it explained why it thought 
Mr Ds complaint had been made out of time.  As a result, the investigator looked into 
whether the complaint was one this service could look into. He then wrote  to IPP explaining 
why he thought the complaint was one we could consider. It didnt agree with his 
assessment. So, the case was passed  back to me for review and a decision as to whether 
we could look into the complaint.
I issued a jurisdiction  decision on 18 December 2019 explaining why I thought  the complaint 
was one this service could consider. In its response  of 20 January 2020,  IPP said it didnt  
find Mr Ds claim that he was considering  retirement back in 2016 to be credible. It thought 
the complaint  resulted from poor performance of another  adviser  and it was being 
scapegoated for that. It referred to a letter it had sent on 7 March 2017,  which  it didnt think 
Ref: DRN07857413had been answered. It also said that no decision should be made without the latest triennial  
scheme report from Aon Hewitt in connection  with Mr Ds former  employer pension scheme. 
Following on from that I issued a provisional  decision  on 10 February  2020,  explaining  why I 
thought the complaint should  be upheld and how compensation should be calculated for 
Mr D. I asked for responses by 24 February  2020.  
Mr D told us that he had no final points to make. IPP wrote to us in response on 
2 March 2020. In summary it said:
It maintained that the case was time barred and had concerns that the service  had 
contrived to make it fit to overcome the clear rules in relation to time barring.
It questioned  whether  I was qualified to assess occupational scheme pension 
transfers and it thought specialist knowledge was required to assess  the case as it 
was complex.
It didnt think the case  should be decided without  the scheme triennial report  being 
obtained from Aon Hewitt. It thought the previous investigators  opinion  had been 
ignored.
It believed it had been financially disadvantaged  by newer  levels of compensation 
that wouldnt have  been available if it had been  dealt  with in a timely manner.
It clarified how it assessed the investment  risk a client could take. It thought  Mr D did 
have the risk appetite to transfer some of his pension  benefits.
It had invested  him in a balanced investment strategy.
It thought it was down  to this service to check whether or not commission  had been 
taken.
It thought a reasonable return assumption  for Mr D would have been  in the 8-9.5% 
range rather than the assumptions I had referred to.
It didnt agree that Mr D needed to be better off as a result of transferring  his OPS 
scheme benefits and thought this was subjective.
It didnt agree that the benefits  were largely  guaranteed and referred again to the 
triennial report from Aon Hewitt.
And it didnt think the case  had been  truly independently assessed.  
It felt the case was decided prior to any assessment  and had been  shoe  horned  in to 
fit a pre-determined  outcome,  especially  as the case in its view should  have been 
time barred.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I remain of the opinion 
that Mr Ds complaint is one that this service can consider.  And Ive decided  to uphold  his 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I explained why I thought  Mr Ds complaint was one that this service could consider in my 
jurisdiction decision of 18 December 2019. Ive thought carefully about what IPP has said in 
relation to the issue of jurisdiction. But I havent  been persuaded by what  it has said,  to 
change my opinion  that Mr Ds complaint is one this service can consider. 
IPP has also questioned my competence to decide  this case. Im confident that I have the 
knowledge and experience to assess a transfer  like this and the experience to assess the 
suitability of the advice. If at any point, I consider I might need to ask for further information, 
evidence or expertise when determining this complaint,  I will do so.  
Ref: DRN07857414IPP has made a number  of submissions about  Mr Ds concerns. These were set out in its 
response to Mr Ds complaint, in the file it has provided to our service;  and in its
correspondence with the investigator. And it has raised further submissions  in response to 
my provisional decision. 
My final decision will focus on the points that I think are the most  important  and relevant in 
order for me to decide whether the advice  given to Mr D was suitable.  So, I wont  necessarily 
address every point  that the parties  may think is important to them. But I want to assure IPP 
and Mr D that I have read and thought  about  everything they have  provided.
It appears that Mr Ds contact with IPP stems  from a presentation it gave to members of his 
former employers OPS, following on from the closure of that scheme  and the setting up of a 
new GPP to replace  it. IPP has provided  copies of the presentation slides as part of its file. 
And these  addressed potential problems with the scheme and possible options  for scheme  
members to consider,  including when it might / might not be appropriate to consider 
transferring out of an OPS. And following  on from that presentation it appears that Mr D 
arranged a meeting  with one of IPPs advisers.
Having reviewed the contemporaneous documentation  thats  been  provided by IPP from the 
time the advice was given, it seems to me that the focus of the discussion about  whether to 
transfer out of the OPS, resulted from concerns Mr D had about the poor funding  of the 
OPS, the position  of the sponsoring employer and the benefits that might be provided  by the 
PPF. I accept these may well have been  genuine concerns on Mr Ds part. 
But I think for the reasons Ill elaborate on in this decision, those concerns should have 
formed a part of IPPs  assessment  of Mr Ds circumstances and objectives; when 
considering whether or not he should  have been  advised to transfer his OPS  benefits. This 
wasnt a situation  where  Mr D was simply giving  IPP an instruction. He went to IPP for 
advice and it had to take reasonable steps  to ensure that any advice it gave him was 
suitable. And in providing that advice,  it needed to make sure that it didnt simply facilitate  
what Mr D thought he might like to do.
The starting point  of IPPs  advice process  appears  to have been obtaining information about  
Mr Ds financial  circumstances  and objectives.  And Ive summarised what it recorded about  
him in the background section above.  
Ill look firstly  at Mr Ds assessed ATR. IPP appears to have  evaluated this by completing an 
attitude to risk profiler form. This posed  a number  of questions and the answers were given a 
numerical value. The total number of points  in answer to each question was used to help 
determine Mr Ds ATR from a number  of different risk categories.  This exercise resulted in 
Mr D being categorised as moderately adventurous. 
Whilst I accept  that such a tool could be useful in helping to assess  Mr Ds ATR, I dont  think  
that an ATR assessment  for him should have been be based solely  on the answers  he gave 
to the questions that were posed in the form. And the first sentence on the form does say: 
This questionnaire has been designed  to help (my emphasis) assess your attitude to risk.  
So, it seems  to me that other factors also needed  to be taken  into account in assessing 
Mr Ds ATR, which would  in my view, include an analysis of his overall circumstances  and 
existing investments. In addition to this OPS, he also appears to have had deferred OPS  
Ref: DRN07857415benefits from a previous  employment. There arent any details of the length of service  or 
value of those  benefits. There is a note that they were to be sent in together  with details for 
the GPP.
The other assets he is recorded as having  was a mini ISA with a value of approximately 
£6,762. This appears to have been  invested in an equity  high income fund and a property 
fund. He also had two mortgage  endowment policies, but its not clear  if these  were  unit 
linked or with profits policies. 
Looking at everything IPP obtained about  Mr D during the advice process,  Im not persuaded 
that he was a moderately adventurous investor. I say this because I find it difficult  to 
reconcile that categorisation with his investment experience, which appears to be limited. 
The main  investments he appears  to have were two mortgage endowment policies  and a 
mini equity  ISA. And the fund selections in the ISA dont suggest to me that Mr D was 
someone who was moderately  adventurous in their investment approach. Taken  in 
conjunction with the endowment policies, his existing investments seem to me more 
suggestive of someone who was prepared to take some investment risk. 
Also, given that most  of Mr Ds pension income  was in relatively secure final salary  OPS 
schemes, it seems to me unrealistic given the investment history Ive described, that 
objectively he was likely  to be the moderately adventurous investor that IPP categorised  him 
as. Looking at the risk profile categories  on the questionnaire, it seems to me that Mr D was 
likely to have been a moderately  cautious  or balanced investor  at most. Ive thought about 
what IPP has said in response to my provisional decision. But for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I remain of the opinion  that Mr D wasnt the moderately adventurous investor that IPP 
categorised him as being.
The next stage  in the advice process appears to have been  for IPP to organise an 
assessment of Mr Ds OPS benefits  and carry out an analysis of the projected fund value 
provided by the OPS  with the fund value that might  be provided by proposed  receiving PP. 
This was set out in the TVAS report that Ive also summarised. 
Its a little surprising  that IPP told us that the critical yield figures  set out in the suitability 
report had been  based on an incorrect TVAS report.  Its not clear  that it explained this to 
Mr D, or when  and how the correct  report was produced. It submits that the critical yield on 
the revised TVAS  it provided, is as a result  of the commission  that it didnt take from the 
plan. That may well be the case, but Ive not seen evidence that shows that this is what  it 
did. 
Im also puzzled that IPP thinks it is incumbent  on this service  to check the information  about 
the taking of commission. I would have expected it to provide information  from the product 
provider as part of its case  file, in support of the revised report  it has produced. But on the 
basis that commission wasnt  taken  and that the revised TVAS  is correct, Ill accept that 
those revised critical yield figures are correct.
IPP says that in the correct TVAS report the critical yield was 8.4% pa if no TFC was taken, 
and 7.87% pa if TFC was taken. It was 8.27%  pa if the PPF was involved and no TFC taken  
and 7.78% if PPF involved and TFC taken. Its also said that too much emphasis was put on 
the critical yield figures by our investigator and it didnt  think  the figures were too high. And in 
response to my provisional  decision it said a reasonable  return  assumption for Mr D would 
have been in the 8-9.5%  a year range I had referred  to. I dont agree with those arguments. 
Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN07857416It seems  to me that an important part of assessing the viability  of an OPS  transfer,  is a 
careful analysis of the investment returns required from any investments in the receiving 
scheme, to match (let alone exceed); the benefits that are being given up by transferring out 
of the OPS. And that needs to be done  in conjunction with other important  considerations, 
such as the investors  ATR,  financial circumstances and objectives. So, I dont think it was 
wrong of the investigator to have carefully considered the critical yield figures.
At the time of the advice the regulator set out growth assumptions that businesses had to 
use when producing pension illustrations. These comprised three investment return  
assumption rates of 5,7 and 9% a year. 
Looking at the investment growth  figures that Ive summarised above, just to match  the 
benefits that might be provided by the PPF,  the investment returns required were in excess 
of the middle investment return assumption  set out by the regulator at that time of the advice 
in 2008. 
And given  what Ive said about  what  I think  was an objective assessment of Mr Ds ATR, I 
dont think the investment  return  required  was realistic, given the degree of investment risk 
Mr D should have been advised  to take.  
Also, if the transfer was only going to match the benefits given up, I dont think it would have 
been worthwhile  for Mr D to transfer. I dont agree with IPPs  submission on this point. I think 
there would need  to a realistic prospect of him being better off as a result of transferring to 
make the advice to transfer worthwhile. And that would have meant his pension  investments 
in the PP would need to achieve  returns closer  to the upper growth assumption of 9% a year 
being required, on a year on year basis.  
Although the transfer advice falls outside  the regulators  pension  review of OPS transfers 
that took place  between  April 1988 and June 1994; the principles and methodology applied 
during that review, are in my opinion still relevant to OPS transfers that occurred after the 
review period ended. 
In order to assist businesses assess the suitability  and viability  of OPS transfer advice, the 
regulator set out a financial viability test which recorded investment  returns that were 
considered to be viable at particular times.  These have been  updated  over time. 
At the time of the advice in 2008  Mr D had 17 years until retirement.  The discount rate that 
would have been applied at that time was 6.5%.  This seems to me to be a reasonable 
indication of what might  have been considered to be a realistic rate of return at the time of 
the advice. And given  what  Ive said above, there seems to me to be a significant risk that 
Mr D wouldnt  achieve the investment  returns required to match, let alone exceed the 
investment returns required on a year on year basis to make the risks of transferring 
worthwhile. And it seems to me that IPPs submission on what it feels would be a reasonable 
rate of return was based mainly on returns Mr Ds actually achieved when it held the advice 
agency for his pension.  I dont think that is an objective analysis based on the criteria that 
Ive summarised above, which I think it should  have taken into account when determining 
whether the recommendation to transfer was suitable.
Ive also thought about Mr Ds overall circumstances and his capacity to accept  the risks of 
transferring this OPS.  IPP has pointed out that Mr D had other deferred OPS benefits  and 
his wife was also a member of an OPS. But I cant see that the details  of the benefits 
Ref: DRN07857417provided by those schemes were obtained  before the advice was given. And there was no 
indication that Mr D wanted to consider his overall  retirement income in conjunction with his 
wifes. 
As Ive summarised above, the attitude  to risk profiler recorded that the investment he was 
considering, formed  more than 75 % of his total assets excluding  his home. And he wanted 
in todays terms an income of between £10  12,000 a year in retirement. So, it seems  to me 
that the OPS benefits which were being transferred,  would form a significant part of Mr Ds 
retirement income. And the benefits provided  by his OPS were  largely  guaranteed.  
IPP has said that the most recent triennial review for the ceding scheme should be obtained.  
I dont think that is necessary because in my opinion, the issues Ive set out in this decision 
are more important than the current state  of that scheme. Also 90% of Mr Ds retirement 
income from the OPS,  would in all likelihood be payable  even  if it went  into the PPF. This 
would provide a significant proportion of the retirement income figure  that Mr D was looking 
to achieve. As a result, I dont think he had the ability to accept any meaningful  risk with a 
pension that would provide a significant portion of his retirement  income. 
IPP has said that there wasnt  enough consideration taken of Mr Ds concerns about the 
viability of the OPS. But as Ive explained, those concerns should have been considered in 
conjunction with the issues, Ive set out above. And it seems to me that whilst  Mr D may 
have had concerns  about his employers scheme and that it was underfunded,  those  
concerns should  have  been put into context  of the issues that I have highlighted in this 
decision. And from what Ive seen  I dont think they were. 
It seems  to me that IPP focussed on Mr Ds concerns  and didnt place sufficient weight on 
the other pertinent issues that Ive discussed above. IPP has provided copies of the 
presentation slides it gave to employees in 2007.  The slide that addressed Reasons for not 
transferring, set out those reasons which were:
Simply to remove benefits from the former employer
Benefits are below  the PPF cap
Critical yield figure is unlikely to be achieved  unless there  are factors  of greater  
importance
And in advising  Mr D to transfer his OPS benefits (that were  below the PPF cap) it appears 
to have gone against its rationale for not transferring out of the OPS that were set out in its 
presentation from 2007.
So, for the reasons Ive given above, Im not persuaded that Mr D should have been advised  
to transfer his OPS  benefits into a PP.
IPP has said that it has been financially disadvantaged by the time it has taken for a final 
decision to be issued.  I accept that it has taken longer than I would have liked for this case  to 
have reached this stage  of our process. But I dont  think that necessarily means IPP has 
been disadvantaged as a result.
Disappointingly IPP has said the outcome has been predetermined. That isnt the case.  The 
fact that Ive upheld  the complaint as did the investigator, doesnt evidence a 
predetermination of the outcome. 
Ref: DRN07857418My role is to independently review this case and reach my own conclusions  based on the 
evidence I have. I have  discharged my duty impartially and fairly, notwithstanding IPPs  view. 
I do understand that IPP will be disappointed  with my decision,  but its allegation is
unfounded. 
what the business must  do to put things right 
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
IPP Financial Services LLP must undertake a redress calculation  in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated  by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision. 
Mr D has transferred the advice agency of his PP to another adviser. IPP Financial Services  
LLP has argued that it shouldnt be held responsible for any advice or fund changes  that 
have been instituted by Mr Ds new adviser.  My understanding is that the new adviser has 
made fund changes to the investments in Mr Ds PP, but the funds remain  in the PP 
recommended by IPP Financial Services LLP.
Mr D finds himself invested  in a PP as a result of the unsuitable advice provided by IPP. But 
I acknowledge that the subsequent transfer  of the advice agency  to another adviser needs to 
be taken into account in the redress methodology and calculation. 
In May 2001  the regulator issued  pensions review bulletin  No 14. This provided updated 
guidance in respect  of the calculation of redress,  for transfer cases  where  an investor had 
subsequently transferred  their personal pension  away  from the reviewing firm, prior to the 
date of the review.  
Mr D has transferred his pension away from IPP Financial Services LLP in the sense that he 
has transferred the advice  agency  to another adviser. So, it seems to me that his situation is 
like that covered by the bulletin.  And in those circumstances,  I think it is appropriate  for IPP 
Financial Services LLP, to use one of the approaches suggested in the bulletin for valuing 
Mr Ds PP; when carrying out the loss assessment.  
So, in this case, Mr Ds new adviser has switched the pension investments  from the funds 
they were in at the time Mr D changed advisers. I think  IPP Financial Services LLP should 
therefore use a notional value for the pension fund,  that would have applied  if the 
subsequent fund changes had not been  made by Mr Ds new adviser  and the funds had 
remained invested in the same funds  as at the time Mr D changed advisers.  
The valuation of the notional occupational scheme  benefits (ie the benefits that would  have 
been due had the first transfer  not taken place)  must  take account of any benefit     
improvements, discretionary pension increases etc up to the date of review, not the date of 
the subsequent transfer.
Ref: DRN07857419IPP Financial Services LLP may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr Ds contribution history  to the State  Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational  scheme  on 
Mr Ds SERPS/S2P entitlement.  
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely  income  tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%.  So, making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this. 
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
determination and money award: 
I require IPP Financial Services LLP to pay Mr D compensation as set out above,  up to a 
maximum of £150,000.
 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr D 
within 90 days of the date IPP Financial Services  LLP receives notification of his acceptance 
of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 
90 days, that it takes IPP Financial Services LLP to pay Mr D this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
recommendation: 
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000, I also 
recommend that IPP Financial Services LLP pays  Mr D the balance.  I further  recommend 
interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in excess  
of 90 days, that it takes IPP Financial Services LLP  to pay Mr D from the date it receives  
notification of his acceptance of the decision,  as set out above.
If Mr D accepts my determination, the money  award is binding  on IPP Financial  Services 
LLP. My recommendation is not binding on IPP Financial Services  LLP. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr D can accept  my determination  and go to court to ask for the balance  of the 
compensation owing to him after the money  award has been paid. Mr D may want  to 
consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Ref: DRN078574110my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is to uphold  Mr Ds complaint about  
IPP Financial Services LLP. And I direct it to calculate and pay Mr D compensation, (if the 
calculation shows hes suffered a loss) using the redress methodology Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0785741