K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
The PPI was taken  out in 1992 around the same time as the mortgage was arranged.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
BoS doesnt have any paperwork available from the point  of sale,  which isnt surprising given 
how long ago it took place, and especially as the mortgage was redeemed in 2002.  Mr and 
Mrs W have helpfully  been able to provide  some  documentation, but not all. This does make  
the case more  difficult  to decide. In reaching  my decision I have looked at the evidence  that 
we do have, as well as what I consider  is most  likely to have happened on a balance of 
probability.
Mr and Mrs W say they didnt  know they had PPI until recently   so they believe that it was 
added without their knowledge  or consent.
Mr and Mrs W have  provided a copy  of a mortgage application  letter  dated 20 May 1992. 
The letter notes that Mr and Mrs W did not take PPI (which it calls Income Protection 
Cover), when applying for the mortgage.  It says that a PPI leaflet is enclosed  and that, 
should they wish to now take it, to complete and return  the proposal  form. It seems clear 
from this that, during  the mortgage application process, Mr and Mrs W were  given a clear 
choice about whether  or not to buy PPI, and decided  not to buy it at that time.
The mortgage offer is dated 5 June 1992. It doesnt  specifically mention PPI. However,  in 
summarising what the monthly  payments  will be it states that there  is a cost of £19.88 for 
insurance and explains  this as: monthly  household  and personal (where applicable) 
insurance premiums (£53,000 rebuilding  cost).
Mr and Mrs W say the mortgage offer shows that they chose buildings  and contents 
insurance and an endowment  policy  and that it clearly demonstrates  that they did not chose 
to take PPI. Looking  at the mortgage offer,  Im not persuaded  that it shows what Mr and 
Mrs W say it does. Personal insurance could  easily mean PPI. And as the PPI premium  at 
that time was £6 per month, its possible that it could form part of the £19.88 being quoted. 
And even  if the Personal insurance doesnt refer to PPI, it does not prove  that the couple 
didnt elect to buy the policy. PPI was often  sold as a separate  product to the mortgage, with 
separate documentation.
Ref: DRN02453542The start date of the mortgage and PPI was 12 June 1992. Mr and Mrs W have provided a 
copy of the PPI policy schedule dated 9 June 1992.  So it seems  clear that they received this 
document just prior to the mortgage  and policy  going live.
From what  we know of BoSs usual sales process at the time, the policy would have been 
presented as an optional extra to the mortgage  which is evidenced  here by the fact that Mr 
and Mrs W werent  sold it when  they initially applied for the mortgage.
The policy was set up with a benefit  split of 75%/25% in favour of Mr W, which suggests that 
Mr and Mrs W gave  some thought to how the policy would  best meet their needs.
 
I have no doubt  that Mr and Mrs W have provided their genuine  recollection  of events. But 
the sale happened a very long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if their memory of 
the sale has faded. On balance, based on the available evidence, I consider that the PPI 
was most likely presented  as optional. Overall I consider  that Mr and Mrs W probably 
decided to buy it by completing and returning the proposal form, knowing that they didnt  
have to, even  if they no longer remember doing  so.
Because BoS doesnt know the sales channel, it has treated it as an advised sale,  which  
holds BoS to a higher standard because, as well as providing sufficient information about the 
policy, it also needed to ensure that the PPI met Mr and Mrs Ws needs. And from what  I 
know of their circumstances at the time,  the policy was suitable for them.
Mr and Mrs W have  said that they would have received at least six months full pay from 
their employer if they were off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition  to this and 
potentially for longer  than they would  have received full pay for. Mr and Mrs W say they had 
some savings at the time. But having  the policy would have meant that they could  retain any 
savings or use them  to cover other outgoings  at what would have been a difficult time. 
A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and defaulting on a mortgage can have 
serious consequences, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs W had an interest in 
protecting their monthly repayments.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information about  the PPI as it should have, 
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover, but Mr and Mrs W werent affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that Mr and Mrs W had an interest in the policy  and decided  to 
buy it, I dont think  that further  information  would have caused  them  to change their minds.  
So they arent any worse  off as a result of anything BoS may have done wrong, so theres 
nothing BoS needs to do to put things right. It follows  that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN02453543Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 December  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0245354