K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  BUPA Insurance Limiteds decision that if he moved to a 
particular area in his country of residence  he would be subject  to an exclusion under his 
international private medical insurance  policy because  he had entered a known area of 
conflict.
background
Mr L had held his policy since 2011.  When his policy renewed in late 2017, Mr L told BUPA  
he was resident in a particular country  (which  Ill call Z). BUPA raised no objection to this.
In 2018, Mr L was offered a job opportunity in a different  area of Z. He mentioned  this to 
BUPA. It told him that the area was a known area of conflict and therefore  if Mr L entered the 
area he would be subject to a particular exclusion under the policy.
As a result, Mr L was dissuaded  from accepting the job opportunity. He considered  BUPA 
had been wrong  to say the area was an area of known conflict and said hed been gravely 
prejudiced by its decision.
BUPA maintained  it had acted correctly. Mr L therefore referred  his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In his opinion, it was 
reasonable for BUPA to tell Mr L that the policys exclusion relating  to areas of known 
conflict would apply  if he were to enter this area.  
Mr L didnt accept the adjudicators findings.  He noted that BUPA  was basing its decision on 
a warning issued  by the Foreign and Commonwealth  Office  (FCO) but he considered that 
this was unfair as the FCO had issued such warnings  in respect of so many  countries. He 
disputed that the city to which he would  be travelling was a known area of conflict.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint I shall explain  why.
The policy states:
We shall not be liable for any claims which concern,  are due to or are incurred as a result  of 
treatment for sickness or injuries directly or indirectly  caused by you putting yourself in 
danger by entering  a known area of conflict (as listed below) and/or if you were an active  
participant or you have  displayed a blatant disregard for your personal  safety  in a known 
area of conflict:
nuclear or chemical contamination
war, invasion, acts of a foreign enemy
civil war, rebellion, revolution,  insurrection
terrorist acts
military or usurped power
Ref: DRN01525412martial law
civil commotion, riots,  or the acts of any lawfully  constituted  authority
hostilities, army, naval  or air services operations whether war has been declared or 
not
The FCOs published  advice was that the area of Z to which Mr L wished to travel was 
subject to martial law. It advised against  all but essential travel  to the particular city in which 
Mr L intended to live, due to the threat of terrorism. Mr L disagrees with the FCOs advice 
and has provided  various  arguments and evidence as to why the city in question  should be 
regarded as safe. However, I agree  with the adjudicator that the FCO is best placed to 
advise on the relative  safety of travelling to a particular area and I think it is reasonable for 
BUPA to base its decision on this advice - even if the policy doesnt specifically refer to this. I 
think the FCOs advice suggests that Mr L was travelling to an area of known conflict as 
described in the policy  and so it was reasonable for BUPA to say the exclusion would apply.
I note that Mr L thinks that the FCOs travel  warnings  are so extensive  that relying on its 
advice would mean the policys exclusion would  have  an unreasonably wide application. It 
might be that the exclusion  would apply  to many areas but I dont think  this means the FCOs 
advice should  be ignored or that it isnt a suitable basis  for deciding on when the exclusion 
should apply.
Mr L has referred to advice he was given by BUPA in 2011. I have considered  this advice. It 
was correct in relation  to the policy wording  which existed at that time. I dont think  this 
advice means BUPA  was incorrect in its decision on how the policy exclusion should apply in 
2018.
It is worth pointing  out that BUPA wasnt  saying  that Mr L would have no cover  under the 
policy if he moved to the particular area.  The exclusion would apply only to treatment for 
injuries or illness which were caused  through him choosing  to be in an area of known 
conflict. If, as Mr L maintains, the risk of him suffering harm  related to any conflict  was 
extremely low, it would  follow that the risk of BUPA needing to invoke the exclusion would be 
equally low. The fact that Mr L decided not to take the job opportunity  because  BUPA  
wouldnt waive the exclusion  suggests  that he was aware the area was potentially 
dangerous.
In conclusion, Im satisfied it was fair for BUPA  to say that if Mr L were  to travel to this area 
the exclusion would apply.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0152541