K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say St Andrews  Insurance  Plc mis-sold them  a payment  protection  insurance 
policy (PPI).  
St Andrews  Insurance plc has taken responsibility  for that sale and this complaint. So from 
now on Ill just refer to St Andrews.
background
This complaint is about PPI that started  in March 2005 around  5 months or so after 
Mr and Mrs B took out a joint mortgage. 
St Andrews  said they took out the PPI through the post. They  paid to have the policy each 
month and it protected Mr and Mrs Bs monthly mortgage repayments  if they couldnt  work.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me. Mr and Mrs B mainly said that they had 
good sick pay and an income protection policy that meant they didn't need PPI. They  also 
told us that if the costs  versus benefits  and the policys optional  nature had been made clear, 
they wouldve  declined  it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
St Andrews  couldnt  provide the documents from the sale so Ive seen  nothing  signed by 
Mr and Mrs B from then.  But I wouldnt  reasonably expect St Andrews to have these  or that 
Mr and Mrs B wouldve kept them. Its not surprising, given how long ago this sale 
happened, that signed paperwork isnt still available. This isnt a reason for me to uphold  the 
complaint.
The PPI was completely separate from their mortgage application  their mortgage had 
already been running without PPI for some time. So I think  Mr and Mrs B wouldve been 
aware that it was up to them  to say if they wanted to take it out. 
And in order to take out the policy, Mr and Mrs B wouldve had to fill in a separate application 
to have the PPI added on to their account and also set up new payment arrangements to 
cover the monthly  premiums for the policy.
Their mortgage  was a big financial commitment, potentially due to run for a long period of 
time when  it was set up. Mr and Mrs Bs home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage 
payments werent  kept up to date. The PPI provided  a dependable  means of ensuring the 
monthly repayments were  protected even if either  (or both) of them couldnt work. 
Ref: DRN08114622I can understand why Mr and Mrs B mightve forgotten some  of the details from so long ago. 
On balance, based on all the information  Ive seen, I think  at the time its likely they knew  
that PPI was optional.  And even if they hadnt  wanted it before, I think  that Mr and Mrs B 
probably decided  they wanted  to have the benefits that PPI offered after being made aware  
of the policy  features, so they chose  to buy the insurance and it was then added to their 
mortgage account at their request.
 
St Andrews  records indicate that the PPI was taken out in response to a direct mailing 
posted to Mr and Mrs B. So I dont think its likely that St Andrews recommended the policy 
to them  personally.  But St Andrews still had to give them enough clear information about  the 
policy so that they could  decide if it was right for them and they wanted to buy it. 
Mr and Mrs B were  both eligible for the PPI. And as they were both working when  the 
mortgage was taken out, and earning  broadly the same, the equal  benefit split looks  
reasonable to me. 
They told us that they were  both entitled  to receive  full sick pay for 6 months then half pay 
for the next 6 months. But I think  PPI still couldve been useful. It wouldve paid out in full for 
up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident and sickness. So the PPI provided better 
protection than Mr and Mrs B couldve relied  on getting through their employers. And it 
wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing them with a useful benefit at a difficult  time  
especially if they mightve had some  extra  costs  as a result  of being sick or disabled. 
PPI wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr B and/or Mrs B 
became unexpectedly  unemployed. 
Mr and Mrs B couldve made repeated claims on the policy , giving them long term protection 
for their mortgage. 
I've taken into account that Mr and Mrs B also had an income protection/private healthcare 
policy set up. But I've seen no paperwork for that policy.  So I cant  fairly say that this meant 
that the PPI wasnt  suitable for them. Policies like this provided a different sort of cover and 
paid out in different circumstances to PPI. So, I think the PPI couldve provided them with a 
valuable benefit  in their particular circumstances.
I cant see that either Mr B or Mrs B wouldve  been  affected by any of the main limitations or 
exclusions in the policy. So, I dont think that having  better information  about what  the policy 
didn't cover wouldve put them off taking it out.
I dont know if St Andrews properly explained what the policy would cost, or what  it might 
pay out in the event  of a claim. But Mr and Mrs B chose to take out the policy when they 
didnt have to  so they seem to have  wanted  it. Ive seen nothing to suggest  it wasnt 
affordable for them - it was a monthly  premium policy  they couldve cancelled  at any time 
without losing out if they no longer wanted to pay for it.
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  them,  I think  it unlikely Mr and Mrs B 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance 
I think theyd still have  taken out the policy. 
This means  that I dont find that Mr and Mrs B have lost out because of anything St Andrews 
did wrong. So, it doesnt need  to do anything to put things  right.
Ref: DRN08114623my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0811462