K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Canada Square Operations Limited trading as Egg mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  at the same time she applied  for a credit  card on-
line.
background
Mrs H bought a PPI policy whilst she was applying for her credit  card on-line in 2000.  
The policy would have covered Mrs H if she couldnt  work  because of an accident, sickness  
or if she lost her job. The policy cost around  £0.59 per £100 of the outstanding balance on 
her credit card and would have paid out 10% of that balance  for up to 12 months per 
successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs H disagreed with this view. 
She said that she had adequate protection already - as she had savings and would have 
received sick pay from her employers, so she didnt need the insurance. And she says there 
was no information  given about  what the policy offered. So the complaint  has been referred 
to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision, I would like to explain why 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
Mrs H applied for her card and the PPI on-line. The first thing Ive looked at is whether she 
was given a fair choice  about buying  the policy. 
Egg has provided copies  of the type of screenshots Mrs H wouldve seen at the time. From 
what we know about these types  of sales, I think these  most likely represented what  she 
would have seen.  The screen asks Mrs H to select an option  - yes to protect  her 
repayments or no to decline the PPI. So Mrs H would have had to select the PPI by ticking  
a box. I also think  its likely  she would  have also been sent a welcome letter. And I think the 
PPI appeared  on her monthly credit  card statements - so she could have questioned it with 
Egg if she was unsure  - I havent  seen evidence that she did so. 
Ive noticed that there was a gap between Mrs H completing the internet application in May 
2000 and Mrs H signing the credit card application in February 2001. Egg has explained  that 
the application form was sent to Mrs H following the application she made  on-line.  And it 
says it would have  sent a welcome letter. From what we know about these type of sales I 
think thats likely.
And whilst Egg cant explain the gap it has said that there could have been a number  of 
explanations for this  for example, it might  have asked for more information from Mrs H or if 
the application form was lost, it could  have sent a replacement  form.
Ref: DRN04236522Taking all this into account I think Mrs H was given a choice and chose  to take out the cover 
knowing she could leave  it if she didnt want  it.
As the PPI was taken out on-line, I dont  think the PPI was recommended to Mrs H. So Egg 
didnt need to make sure it was right for her. But it still needed to give her enough 
information so she could make an informed choice  about whether or not she wanted  the PPI.
Mrs H says that the PPI wasnt  adequately explained. And she says she wasnt  given clear 
information to help her to make the correct  decision about whether or not it was right for her 
taking into account  her circumstances. And its possible  the information  Egg gave Mrs H 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But even if Egg had given clearer or 
better information about the PPI I dont  think it would have  put Mrs H off taking out the policy.
I can see Mrs H says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer - for up to six months 
full pay followed by six months half pay. As Egg didnt recommend the PPI, it didnt have to 
make sure it was right for her. It was up to Mrs H to decide if she needed it. But Ive thought  
about her circumstances. Whilst I accept she might  have had generous sick pay, this policy  
would have paid out for up to 12 months  - so it would have paid out in addition to and for 
longer than Mrs Hs full sick pay lasted. She has also told us she had savings of between six 
months but less than 12 months of her pay. She has also told us she had around  £12,000  
worth of savings and they werent earmarked for any particular purpose - so she hasnt  been  
consistent with what shes told me which is understandable after such a long time. I can also 
see Mrs H was living with her family at the time. Ive thought about what shes said carefully. 
I can see Mrs Hs credit limit and spending  increased on her card quite soon after she had 
taken it out. So I think she might still have found  the PPI useful if she lost her job or couldnt 
work through  accident or sickness.
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  as she was working and in 
good health - so I think the PPI could  have been  useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover.
So overall I dont  think Mrs H lost out because of what  Egg did wrong and I dont uphold  her 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019..
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0423652