K820x#14complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is that Wealth At Work Limited  (WAWL) did not advise her about the 
United States (US) personal tax implications of her investment(s),  despite  its knowledge of 
US origin.
background
The relevant  advice took place around  late 2017. Mrs H followed WAWLs investment 
recommendations. Record  of one of our telephone  conversations  with her says she 
thereafter obtained advice from an accountant with regards to her 2017/2018 US tax returns. 
She says she then learnt that the investment(s)  has significantly costly US personal  tax 
implications for her. Around late 2018  she complained to WAWL and asserted that it is 
responsible for unsuitable investment advice because it did not advise her about  the 
negative US personal  tax implications.
WAWL did not uphold the complaint. It referred to fact find, suitability and recommendation 
related documentation from 2017  and pointed out the following:
Its advice service  took place over the course  of two meetings. The first meeting was 
a fact finding exercise; thereafter a suitability  and recommendation report  was 
produced and sent to Mrs H; then the second meeting served the purpose of 
discussing the fact find information and recommendation report  with Mrs H and 
confirming her agreement  to all relevant documents.
Within the agreed information/documentation  were queries about Mrs Hs residency 
and domicile position.  She confirmed both to be the United Kingdom (UK). [Our file 
records say she has been resident  in the UK for around 30 to 40 years.]
In the above  context,  it had no obligation  to advice on the US personal tax 
implications that Mrs H has referred  to and it is unreasonable to say it ought to have  
foreseen such implications. It was aware, during its identification process  and from 
information in her UK driving licence, that she was born in the US but that alone was 
insufficient to indicate  the prospects  of the US personal tax implications   especially 
given her UK residency and domicile status. Its practice was to ask whether (or not) 
clients were UK tax payers, it put this question to Mrs H and she confirmed she was.
There was a disclaimer notice  in the suitability  report sent to Mrs H clearly informing 
her about the need to obtain suitably qualified tax advice in order to be certain 
about her personal tax position,  because WAWL  is not a professional  tax adviser.  
The same  notice  also expressly excluded any liability upon  WAWL in this respect.
The complaint was referred  to this service and considered by one of our adjudicators. Mrs 
Hs main argument is that advising  on the US personal tax implications ought  reasonably  to 
have been an implicit obligation within WAWLs advisory  service   based on its knowledge of 
her US origin (which she says was discussed beyond  information in the driving licence).  The 
adjudicator was not persuaded  by this. She concluded that the complaint should  not be 
upheld for broadly the same reasons  given  by WAWL.
Mrs H disagreed with this outcome. She did not accept the suggestion  that WAWLs service 
was mainly related  to the domestic  UK market   or related to knowledge and awareness of 
that market. She asserted  that its operation was more extensive than that and was extensive 
enough for it to have  been aware of the potential  US personal tax implications in her case. 
She concluded that   WAWL had a duty of care to, at the very least,  have made it clear 
to [her] that [she]  should  check the US tax implications of the investment they were  
Ref: DRN07087322suggesting before [she] proceeded with it. In response to this particular point, the 
adjudicator noted  that, through its disclaimer in the suitability  report,  WAWL did make it clear 
to Mrs H that she needed to get advice on her personal tax position  in relation to the 
investment(s). The matter was then referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. I do not uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint.
This complaint is very specific and is limited  to the matter of the costly US personal  tax 
implications faced by Mrs H after making the investment(s) recommended  by WAWL. I have 
noted her description  of those implications, which appear to relate to the capital investment 
and appear to be concurrent  with output from the investment. I accept that, as described, the 
implications are and will be costly to Mrs H and I empathise with her in this respect. 
However, the task before  me is to determine  whether (or not) WAWL bears responsibility for 
the matter and I conclude that it does not.
I endorse the points  that have been  made  by WAWL  and the adjudicator in terms of the 
manner in which Mrs H was presented as an investment  client.  With confirmation of her UK 
residency and domicile status  including  residency  in the UK for decades  and what  
appears to be confirmation  of a UK tax payer  status, I am not persuaded that WAWL  ought  
reasonably to have  enquired further into potential US personal  tax implications based only 
on Mrs Hs US origin. It does not appear to be in dispute that Mrs H did not raise the matter 
or bring  it to WAWLs attention in any way. As such, WAWL would have  needed to anticipate 
it in order for it to have  been addressed. Overall, on balance and in the context described  
above, I do not consider that WAWL should  have anticipated such a potential problem.
Even if the above  conclusion is wrong  which I do not consider it is  due weight must be 
given to the fact that WAWL appears to have given  Mrs H express notice  that its advice did 
not include consideration of her personal  tax position that she could  rely upon and that in 
order to be certain about her position in that respect she had to take professional tax advice. 
I regard this to be the key consideration in this case.  The minimum notice that Mrs H says 
WAWL owed  her was indeed given  to her. Evidence suggests that she obtained tax advice 
after the investment,  yet the notice was given to her before  the investment was made.  Had 
she also taken tax advice  before  the investment was made, and assuming such advice 
discouraged her from making the investment, the investment could have  been  avoided for 
the US personal  tax implications reason. Having already  given notice of the need  for tax 
advice WAWL  cannot reasonably share  responsibility for what appears to have been Mrs Hs 
delay in taking  such advice.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 28 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
Ref: DRN07087323ombudsman
Ref: DRN0708732