K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Union Reiserversicherung AG (URV) hasnt settled hospital charges 
for her son when he was taken ill on holiday.
All references to URV includes its agents.
background
Mrs B held a single trip travel insurance  policy with URV.  The  policy covered Mrs B, her 
husband and their children.  
In August  2018,  while Mrs B and her family  were on holiday, her young son was taken ill.  
Initially he was treated by a local doctor  organised through the hotel where they were 
staying. Master B was diagnosed with an ear infection and was prescribed antibiotics. But 
his condition deteriorated and following a further  visit by the doctor  later the same  day, he 
was transferred to hospital by ambulance. At the hospital he was diagnosed with 
gastroenteritis and dehydration  in addition to the ear infection.   
Mrs B says she contacted  URV on the day Master  B was admitted to hospital. She says 
URV agreed  to cover the costs of his treatment up until that point  but wanted Master  B 
transferred to a public hospital for on-going  care.
Following treatment, Master B was well enough  to be discharged into the care of his mother, 
whos clinically trained,  later the same day. He wasnt transferred to a public hospital as no 
further hospital treatment was needed.
Mrs B made a claim to URV. Shed paid for the outpatient doctors visits and the medication  
her son needed. URV settled this aspect of her claim in line with the terms of the policy  and 
as a result, Mrs B assumed the hospital charges,  of 1600 Euros, had also been paid.  
But Mrs B started to receive letters from a debt collection agent complaining that Master Bs 
hospital charges  hadnt been paid. So, she got in touch with URV.
In March 2019, URV wrote to Mrs B. It said it considered the charges  levied  by the hospital 
were excessive and that no valid contract  existed between Mrs B and the hospital,  so no 
payment would be made for Master  Bs care. URV reassured Mrs B it held her free of harm 
regarding medical  invoices.
Following the involvement of our service, URV accepts there was a delay between  Mrs B 
notifying them about being  chased  for the debt, and URV  looking  into things. It also said its 
final response letter contained information  that wasnt  relevant to the circumstances of her 
claim. It offered £175.00 recognising the impact  these  errors had on her.
Mrs B continues to be chased  by debt collectors,  some two years after her sons  treatment. 
The clam against her is increasing as interest  charges are being added  and she wants URV 
to settle the hospital charges to prevent further  debt collection action being taken against  
her.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened and thought  URV  should settle the account.  
She wasnt satisfied URV had demonstrated the charges were excessive. She also didnt 
think URV had acted reasonably in not engaging  directly with the hospital to reach an 
Ref: DRN03632842agreement about  settlement  of the debt.  She thought URV had put its own commercial  
interest ahead  of the interests of Mrs B, its customer.  
Mrs B accepted our investigators opinion. URV disagreed and its position remains 
unchanged. It is unwilling to settle  the account  or engage with the hospital or debt collection 
agent and so the case has been  passed to me for determination.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 September 2020 and said I intended  to uphold this 
complaint. I invited both parties to send in any further information  they wanted  me to 
consider before reaching a final determination. Neither party  has provided anything further.
In my provisional decision I said  
As a matter  of general legal principle, URV is bound to indemnify the policyholder against 
losses covered by the policy  as and when the amount of the loss has been ascertained. That 
may be by agreement, by court judgment or by arbitration. So URV has a commercial  
interest in being  able to take over the defence and settlement of such  claims in the name of 
its policyholder.  
URVs policy terms say it can:
take over and deal with in your name  the defence/settlement of any claim made  
under the policy
In effect, this means URV  has the right to take over the conduct of a claim  defending  or 
settling it  in Mrs Bs name. But that isnt an unqualified right. 
Legally, in situations where  URVs interests  conflict with those of the policyholder, URV has 
a responsibility to act in good faith when it takes  over the defence or settlement of a claim  
having regard  to the policyholders interests  as well as its own commercial interests. URV 
isnt entitled to act arbitrarily in the way it goes about  declining to pay the full amount of the 
invoice and contesting the outstanding  amount. In deciding whether  and how  to defend  
possible legal action  against its policyholder, URV  is required to base its decisions on the 
circumstances of the individual case. 
The applicable  regulations lead to a similar conclusion. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly 
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly,  both between  itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client. 
The relevant  regulations  also include ICOBS  8.1.1R which says an insurer must:
Ref: DRN03632843(1)handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2)provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress;
(3)not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and 
(4)settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide,  published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities  of Providers and 
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance 
on what the combination of Principles for Businesses (the Principles)  and the detailed rules 
require providers and distributors of financial services in certain  circumstances to treat 
customers fairly. The RPPD explains that firms should consider the impact of their actions, 
or inactions, on the customer throughout the life-cycle of the service  being provided. 
When considering  this complaint, Ive also taken into account what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time of the claim. This was for underwriters of travel  insurance 
 and their agents   to engage  diligently with medical providers  to try to resolve disputes 
over bills by actively seeking  a compromise  or adjudication of their bills. That includes 
actively engaging  in negotiation. 
Ill explain  what this means  for this complaint.  
URV havent disputed  that Master Bs treatment was medically necessary. 
URVs policy terms exclude private  medical treatment unless the treatment is authorised  in 
advance. But the policy certificate goes on to say  
In the event of a medical emergency,  You must contact US as soon as possible.   You  
must contact US before incurring expenses in excess of £500, except in case of 
emergency.  If You are physically prevented  from contacting  US immediately,  You or 
someone designated by You must contact US within 48 hours.
 
Im satisfied this was an emergency situation  and Mrs B contacted URV, as soon as she was 
able to, and within 48 hours.
Mrs B has said URV told her on more than one occasion that her sons  treatment would be 
covered. 
So when her son was discharged from the hospital,  Mrs B signed an acknowledgement  form 
regarding liability for costs. She said she signed  this form after she was reassured  by URV 
that the treatment  her son had received up until that point would be covered under her travel 
insurance policy. 
URV hasnt  disputed Mrs Bs testimony.
And in its final response letter to Mrs B in March 2019, it said please note that all medical 
invoices have been paid at a usual, customary and reasonable rate for the service  they 
provide to you.  
But URV hasnt  paid any of the charges levied by the hospital.
Ref: DRN03632844It says no valid contract  exists between Mrs B and the hospital  and that the referring doctor  
and/or ambulance provider illegally  and unethically diverted her son to a private hospital, 
rather than taking him to a public hospital  where he could  have received treatment under the 
free Spanish health system. They  suggest Mrs B was the unwitting victim of a tourist  trap.
Ive considered URVs points very carefully  given the serious nature of their allegations. But I 
havent been provided with any evidence which supports URVs position. It has not shown 
that the actions  of the doctor, in transferring Master B to a private hospital, were illegal or 
unethical. Nor has it shown any evidence of potential collusion between the doctor, the 
ambulance provider or the hospital  to trap Mrs B into incurring private  hospital  charges.  
URV has not for example,  complained  to the police or pursued  the doctor in any civil 
proceedings or a regulatory complaint.
Nor has it not provided me with any evidence to show Mrs B was misled  about the location 
or nature of her sons treatment  or indeed that the treatment Master B received wasnt  
appropriate for his condition.  
URV were aware in early March that Mrs B had signed an acknowledgement  form regarding 
liability for her sons treatment costs. And this was before URV  first made contact with the 
debt collection agent. Im satisfied this document constituted a contract  between  Mrs B and 
the hospital that treated  her son.
I cannot see, from the information provided to me, URV has proactively  engaged with either 
the medical provider  or its agent to resolve this dispute, despite  telling Mrs B in its final 
response letter that when dealing with hospitals  in Spain, negotiation of bills is 
essential.    
URV has provided me with an email to the debt collection agent  dated 12 March  2019, 
asking for correspondence to be forwarded  to URV instead of Mrs B. 
And a letter dated 13 March 2019, again  to the debt collection agent,  in which  URV  says it 
does not consider a valid agreement was entered into by Mrs B and therefore  there  is no 
debt to indemnify.
But the fact that Mrs Bs son received  care at the hospital and signed  an acknowledgement 
that she was liable for the charges, supports the existence of a contract and URV hasnt 
produced evidence that persuades me to the contrary.
putting things right 
URV hasnt  disputed that Mrs B has an eligible claim under the terms of her travel insurance 
policy. The dispute  is between  URV  and the hospital that treated Master B but I cannot see 
that URV  have taken  over and dealt with the claim in line with the policy  terms or in the way 
Id expect. 
The amount  in dispute isnt significant. But the debt has been outstanding for some  time and 
is clearly causing Mrs B stress and worry.
URV hasnt  attempted to negotiate the bill, despite telling Mrs B this was essential  when  
dealing with hospitals in Spain. URV has simply said its not prepared  to pay the hospital  
charges, leaving  Mrs B to face repeated contact from a debt collection agent, and over a 
significant period.
Ref: DRN03632845Based on the limited  contact between URV, the hospital and the debt collection agent
Im not satisfied URV has given Mrs Bs interests  due regard but has instead focussed on its 
own commercial interests.
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant  the 
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which  in this case  is 
URV.
DISP 3.7.11R also provides  that a direction may require  the respondent, here URV to take 
such steps in relation  to the complaint as the ombudsman considers  just and appropriate 
whether or not a court  could order those  steps to be taken. 
I accept that, because the healthcare  providers  charges havent  been agreed or 
adjudicated, there isnt an ascertained  legal liability  on Mrs B to pay the outstanding sum so 
URVs duty to indemnify  her hasnt been  triggered. But in this case, Im persuaded its fair 
and reasonable for URV to do so.
Thats because,  for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied a valid agreement  exists 
between Mrs B and the hospital that treated her son and I dont think there is sufficient 
evidence to show the charges levied were excessive.  
In the circumstances of this case,  Im satisfied  it would be fair and reasonable for URV to 
settle the outstanding  amount without further  delay.  
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell URV that Mrs B accepts  our final decision,  I 
direct URV to:
pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare provider  together with any interest  
due on the outstanding amount  and any collection fees Mrs B is liable for, and
pay Mrs B £175.00 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its handling of 
her complaint, if this hasnt already  been paid
As neither party has provided any further information for me to consider, there is no reason 
for me to depart from my provisional findings.
Ref: DRN03632846my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  Within 28 days from the date which  we tell 
Union Reiseversicherung  AG that Mrs B accepts our final decision,  it must -
pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare provider  together with any interest  
due on the outstanding amount  and any collection fees Mrs B is liable for, and
pay Mrs B £175.00 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its handling of 
her complaint, if this hasnt already  been paid
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 December 2020.
Sian Brightey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0363284