K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) didnt carry out 
adequate checks  before lending to him. 
background
Mr M entered into three  loans with Sunny between March and April 2015.  He says that 
Sunny didnt carry out sufficient checks to ensure the loans were  affordable  and that the 
loans were lent irresponsibly.
Sunny says that before providing the loans it carried out creditworthiness  checks  and 
assessed Mr Ms ability to make the repayments. It says that these checks were  
proportionate. Sunny says that it contacted the credit reference agencies  and that there was 
some adverse information on Mr Ms records and because of this he was only offered a 
small amount of credit relative to his income.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He thought that the checks  carried  out before 
the first two loans were  provided were  proportionate. Before the third loan was provided he 
thought that Sunny should have asked for further  details about  Mr Ms existing financial 
commitments including any short term loan commitments. However, he said that he hadnt  
enough evidence  to see what Sunny would have seen had it asked for this information and 
so couldnt say whether or not this loan was affordable.
Mr M didnt  accept our adjudicators view. He said he had provided a copy  of his credit file 
and that if Sunny had carried out proper  checks it would have realised he had missed  
payments with other loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Mr M entered into three  loans with Sunny. Before these loans were provided  information was 
gathered on his income and expenses, including his financial  commitments. It gathered 
information from the credit reference  agencies showing Mr Ms indebtedness. 
Given the loans  were relatively small compared  to Mr Ms income and repayable  over 24 
weeks, I think the checks carried out were sufficient.  I note that by the time the third loan 
was taken out, Mr M had taken out three loans in just over a month and that he had to make 
repayments on all of these. However, given the total repayment  amounts due and that these 
were the first three loans I still find the check carried  out were  sufficient.
Ref: DRN07082092As well as carrying out sufficient checks,  Sunny is also required to assess  affordability based  
on the information it receives. Sunny  has said that there was adverse information on Mr Ms 
credit file and that he was only lent a small amount relative to his income.
I have looked  through  the information Sunny gathered and can see that this showed  Mr M 
was making use of short term lenders and had other credit commitments. This could suggest 
that Mr M was struggling financially. However  based on the other affordability information 
gathered I do not find that I have enough  to say that Sunny acted unreasonably by providing 
the loans it did. 
Based on the above, I do not uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0708209