K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd (TCFC) supplied  him with a car 
that wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
background 
In November 2016, Mr L acquired a used car through  a three year hire purchase  agreement 
from TCFC. The car was around four years old, had travelled around  34,000  miles and cost 
£9,598. 
Just over a year later, the car broke down and was recovered to a local garage for diagnosis. 
The garage said there was a fault with the timing chain tensioner, which it said was a 
common problem with this model of car. It said the fault had caused  the engine  to be 
damaged and it now needed to be replaced. 
Mr L complained to TCFC and asked it to cover the cost of the engine  replacement. TCFC 
didnt think it was responsible for paying those  costs. It said this was because  it had been 13 
months since the point  of sale and the car had travelled an additional 13,000  miles since. It 
said it thought  the faults were more likely due to wear and tear. 
I sent Mr L and TCFC  my provisional  decision on 29 March  2019. I explained why I thought 
the complaint  should be upheld. I said:
Mr L acquired the car through  a hire purchase  agreement. Under this type of agreement, 
TCFC is the supplier of the goods.  It is therefore responsible  for dealing with complaints 
about the quality of the car it supplied. The Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (CRA) implies terms 
into the hire purchase  agreement. It says that any goods supplied  must be of satisfactory  
quality. 
The CRA says that to be considered satisfactory,  the goods should  be to a standard  a 
reasonable person would expect when taking into consideration the description of the goods, 
the price paid and other relevant circumstances. One of the aspects which the CRA  says is 
appropriate to consider  in relation to satisfactory quality is durability. And I think this is the 
key consideration  in Mr Ls case.  
The car Mr L acquired was four years  old and had travelled around 34,000  miles.  At the 
point of failure the car had travelled around 47,000 miles. The garage  that inspected  the car 
(and completed the repair work) commented  that this was a common  problem with this 
particular model of car. It said these issues usually start developing at around  30,000  miles. 
But the manufacturer hasnt agreed with this statement.  It says this isnt a common reported 
problem with that model and there  has been no recalls issued for it. Ive not seen anything 
else to corroborate what the garage  has said and weve been unable  to get any further 
information from them as to why they believe this is a common issue. So on balance, I dont 
think its likely this is a common problem with this particular car. But just because its not a 
common problem or known fault doesnt  mean the car was of satisfactory quality.  
TCFC says the issue with the timing  chain is due to normal  in service wear and tear. When 
we asked it to show  us its research (which  it says showed the average lifespan  to be 42,000 
 52,000 miles), it wasnt very persuasive. It was an extract  from one website, which said the 
Ref: DRN03715722average lifespan could be anywhere between 40,000 and 100,000. This is quite a wide 
range, and it wasnt specific to the make or model  of the car Mr L has. 
Our investigator called  one of the manufacturers  main dealers. The expectation from their 
servicing team was that for this particular make  and model they would expect the timing 
chain to last the reasonable  lifetime  of the car. Ive also looked into information about 
servicing expectations on the manufacturers website and it doesnt list the timing chain as a 
serviceable item (although it does for some other models). So all of this leads me to think 
that the reasonable expectation was that the issue Mr L has experienced shouldnt have 
occurred when it did. 
TCFC has suggested that Mr L continued  to drive  the car after he initially  reported the 
problems. I can understand why TCFC  think that given  what Mr L told them  over the phone  
about the likely mileage of the car  but he wasnt certain. And from everything else Ive 
seen about the fault it seems very unlikely that Mr L could have driven  the car at all after it 
broke down.  So Im not persuaded  his misuse of the car either  caused  the issue or made it 
worse. 
There also hasnt been any suggestion  from TCFC or the garage that did the repairs that the 
damage was caused by poor maintenance. With that in mind, and given the age and mileage  
of the car I dont  think a reasonable person would consider it satisfactory for the car to need 
a new engine so soon. So I dont think the car (and specifically the timing chain and 
tensioner) was sufficiently durable. For this reason I dont think  the car was of satisfactory 
quality. 
Mr L has now had a replacement engine fitted at a cost of £3,000. Had the car been  of 
satisfactory quality, he wouldnt have incurred this cost. So TCFC should refund this to him. 
Mr L has also provided an invoice  for £200 from the garage for storage costs.  He says this 
was incurred because  he couldnt afford to pay for all of the repair work straightaway. I can 
see Mr L has tried to mitigate his losses by paying for the repairs  at the earliest opportunity, 
and he shouldnt have  been in that position  in the first place. So I think  its fair TCFC refund 
the £200 too. 
As hes been out of pocket by £3,200, TCFC should also add 8% simple interest per year 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement. Its not clear exactly  when Mr L paid for 
the repair and storage  as he doesnt  have confirmation of when the payment was made (and 
it was made  in cash). But Im satisfied  Mr L has paid it because the car has been  repaired, is 
in his possession  and hes continued  to drive it. Mr L says he got the car back  in 
February 2018. But without confirmation  of when he paid the invoice I think  the 8% should 
be calculated from 16 March 2018 (the date of the invoices) unless Mr L can show  he paid 
this sooner. 
Mr L also says he had to pay for recovery trucks to transport his car. Firstly  he says he paid 
a breakdown company to assist him at the roadside  and recover  his car to his home. He 
then says he paid a separate company to transport the car to a local garage.  But because 
that garage wasnt carrying out repair  work quickly, he paid for the car to be moved again to 
a different garage. He says the total cost of these  two moves was around £100.  
Mr L hasnt been  able to provide any evidence of the costs of moving his car to the two 
garages. But even if he did, I dont think its reasonable to ask TCFC to cover these costs.  
This is because of what hes provided in relation to the breakdown  company. Mr Ls bank 
statement shows he paid the breakdown  company one payment of £89 and another  of 
Ref: DRN03715723£10.33. This appears to be one charge for a one year breakdown  cover  membership  and 
one charge for a one-off emergency call out fee. 
Mr L will continue  to get benefit of the breakdown  cover  for the whole year so it isnt fair that 
he should get a refund for that  and in any event he only purchased it at the time of 
breaking down.  But TCFC  should  cover the cost of the call out fee (£10.33). 
Ive looked into the terms of what  this breakdown company offers.  As part of the call out fee 
it will recover the car to a destination  of Mr Ls choice. Whilst Mr L could have recovered it to 
a garage rather than his home, I realise he may not have been able to locate  a suitable 
garage immediately.  For that reason I think its reasonable that TCFC also pays  him 
something for the additional towing costs  in taking the car to a garage.  Mr L hasnt  been  able 
to show how much this was, so taking  into account  how close the garage was to his house, I 
think £30 is fair to cover this cost. 
Mr L was without the car for two and a half months whilst it was in for repair.  So I dont think  
TCFC can fairly charge him for hire during that time. I understand Mr L hasnt made any 
payments towards  the hire purchase agreement since December 2017. TCFC should 
therefore waive two and a half of his monthly  payments  (£466.85 x 2.5) from the arrears,  but 
it is still entitled to seek  repayment of the remaining balance. 
Whilst I understand why Mr L has withheld payments towards the hire purchase agreement, 
he is responsible  for maintaining payments whether or not there was a dispute.  Ive also 
considered that Mr L has continued to use the car despite not paying  anything during that 
time. So although I think TCFC owes him money for repairs,  storage and recovery, he also 
owes money to TCFC  for monthly hire. In the circumstances I think  the fairest  solution is for 
TCFC to offset any refund against  any arrears on the agreement (factoring in the two and 
half monthly payments  to be waived). If after clearing the arrears there is still money to be 
refunded, then this should be paid directly to Mr L. 
Finally, but for the repairs Mr L would have continued paying his monthly  payments  towards  
the hire purchase  agreement. So TCFC should  ensure  Mr Ls credit  file doesnt show missed 
or late payments,  unless  after the refund has been applied there are still arrears  on the 
agreement. In that instance, Mr L should be given  30 days from the date of settlement to 
bring the agreement  up to date. If after this time the agreement is still in arrears  Mr Ls credit 
file should only show the number of missed payments he is actually in arrears by. I think  this 
is the fairest reflection on Mr Ls ability and willingness  to pay the agreement. 
Both Mr L and TCFC  accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments  or 
evidence to provide.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and considering neither 
Mr L nor TCFC had any further comments to make I see no reason to reach  a different 
conclusion to what I reached in my provisional decision (copied above). 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct 
The Car Finance  Company (2007) Ltd to:
Ref: DRN037157241.Pay £3,000  for the cost of replacing the engine.
2.Pay £200 for storage costs. 
3.Pay £10.33  for breakdown call out charges
4.Waive two and half monthly repayments (totalling £1,167.13)
5.Pay 8% simple interest per year on (1), (2), & (3) from the date of each payment to 
the settlement  date.  
6.Offset (1), (2), (3), (4) & (5) against the arrears on the agreement, paying any excess  
directly to Mr L. 
7.Update Mr Ls credit file to show only the number of months left in arrears after 
accounting for the adjustments in (6) and after allowing him an additional 30 days to 
make up any arrears.  
If TCFC thinks tax should be deducted from the interest  element  of my award,  then it should  
provide Mr L with a tax deduction certificate  so he can reclaim it, if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019. 
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0371572