K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has declined a claim they 
made under their home insurance policy for subsidence.
Reference to Ageas  includes  its appointed  agents and representatives.
background
Mr and Mrs S made a claim to Ageas  after they noticed cracking in their extension.  
Construction of the extension was completed  a couple of years  earlier  and signed-off by the 
local authority building control.
Ageas inspected the damage and carried out investigations into the ground and drainage  
system underneath the extension. It declined the claim. It said the damage  wasnt  consistent 
with subsidence.  It also said the foundation hadnt  been built deep enough.
Mr and Mrs S complained about this and provided  evidence to show  the extension had been 
signed off. They also provided notes made by building  control prior to sign off about  the 
foundation depth.
Ageas maintained its decision  to decline the claim. It accepted Mr and Mrs S had taken 
reasonable precautions when having the extension built. But it said the damage was 
inevitable and there was evidence of inadequate  design. It noted the foundation was over 
1.6m deep  and built onto a mainly peat soil, which it said was inappropriate.  Mr and Mrs S 
brought their complaint  to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said the extension was subject to building  
regulations and had been signed-off by building control as meeting the requirements of 
those regulations. Because of this she didnt think it fair to say the design of the foundation 
had been faulty. She recommended Ageas  deal with the claim and pay £200 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience of having the claim wrongly declined had caused them.
Ageas didnt accept  this. It said Mr and Mrs S had acted responsibly but said the design of 
the foundation wasnt fit for purpose and failure  was inevitable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage  caused by subsidence, subject to a number of policy  terms. One 
term says the policy  doesnt cover  damage  arising from faulty design.
Ageas has accepted the damage to the extension  was caused by subsidence.  It has 
declined the claim  because it says the foundation  design is faulty. Its given a few different 
reasons why it thinks that is.
It has mentioned standards applied by a particular organisation  involved in the building  of 
new homes. But Mr and Mrs S extension wasnt built as a new home  or by that particular 
organisation. So those standards didnt apply  to this extension. For that reason, I dont think 
those standards  are relevant  to this claim and I wont consider them  further.
Ref: DRN05550802Ageas has pointed to a section of the Building Regulations which  it says havent been met. 
In summary,  this section  requires the construction of the building  to achieve two things. 
Firstly, that the weight of the building is transferred to the ground safely. And secondly,  that it 
wont cause movement of the building or the ground such  that the stability  of another  
building is affected.  I dont share Ageas  view that this section  hasnt been  met. Ive seen no 
suggestion that the extension is unsafe  or that its movement has affected the stability  of 
any other buildings.
Lastly, Ageas has quoted a set of standards about foundations. In summary they say that 
peat soils are highly compressible  and subject to considerable  settlement.  And that its 
generally necessary  to bypass peat and place  the foundation on a more reliable soil type.
Based on the investigations Ageas carried out, it claims  these standards  havent been met. 
Directly below the foundation  at over 1.6m, the investigations  found the soil to be made  up of 
a number of different materials but mainly peat.  And I note what  it has said about  the timing  
of the damage   cracking appeared a couple of years after the extension was completed.
Mr and Mrs S have  provided evidence from their local authority building control. They  have a 
certificate which shows the requirements  of Building  Regulations were met when their 
extension was built. The notes which  accompany  the certificate say the foundation must be 
1,500mm deep.  Further notes from building control  show an inspection was carried out 
whilst the ground was being excavated. The notes dont suggest any change  was made to 
the requirements of the foundation depth  based  on the composition or conditions  of the 
ground. And nor were  further investigations  into the ground required.
Ageas acknowledged Mr and Mrs S acted reasonably. It said, It is acknowledged  that you 
have taken all reasonable precautions in appointing the relevant professionals and obtaining 
sign off from Building Control in respect of the extension to your property. I agree with this 
point. The foundation not only met, it exceeded the depth required by building control.  And 
building control  were prepared to certify  the extension, having inspected the ground 
conditions. That means Mr and Mrs S ensured they complied with the relevant regulations 
that applied to their property and their extension at the time they had it built.
The standards Ageas quoted havent been met, but I havent seen any evidence to show  
those standards  are part of the regulations. Ageas has decided  that all the standards  and 
requirements Mr and Mrs S had to pass through to get their extension  built are of no 
relevance in terms of their claim. Ageas is looking to apply a whole different set of standards 
that Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have any knowledge  of and werent  applied  by building control. 
Because of this, I dont think it would be fair for Ageas  to rely on this to use a policy term to 
decline the claim. I think the fair and reasonable outcome  is for Ageas to deal with the claim.
I agree  with our investigator that Mr and Mrs S have been caused unnecessary 
inconvenience as a result  of Ageas  declining the claim unfairly. I think £200 is a reasonable 
amount to put that right.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Ref: DRN05550803deal the claim, subject  to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy;
pay £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience*.
*If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much  its taken  off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs S a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 August  2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0555080