K821x#15Complaint
Miss J has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly continued to 
applying charges to her overdraft even though she couldnt afford them.
Background and my provisional decision of 16 June 2021
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 June  2021.  
In my provisional decision,  I told the parties  that I was intending to reach a final decision  
which told Halifax it needed  to refund  some  of the fees Miss J paid and also remove  any 
negative information  that it recorded  on her credit file as a result of this overdraft.  
Following this, both Halifax and Miss J confirmed  that the fees in question had either not 
been charged at the time or already refunded to Miss J. Halifax  also said that the default 
applied on Miss Js credit file was removed  after Miss J cleared the outstanding balance on 
her overdraft. On the other hand,  Miss J says that this information it is still showing on her 
credit file even though  she borrowed  the money to repay Halifax.  
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties  for their responses to my provisional decision.   It seems to me that most, 
if not all, of the outstanding issues on this case may well have already  been resolved. Halifax 
appears to have already done what I would  expect it to in circumstances where  a 
consumers overdraft became unsustainable for them. Indeed as Halifax has also removed 
the default applied on Miss Js credit file, it has arguably gone further that I would normally 
ask it to do so in these  circumstances.
That said,  Miss J says this adverse information still remains on her credit  file. I dont know  
what Miss Js credit  file currently shows. But as Halifax  has said that it has already agreed to 
and arranged for the default it applied, to be removed it should provide Miss J with evidence  
to confirm this has already been done, in the event  that Miss J still disputes this. 
As Halifax has already  done what Id expect it to do bearing in mind the circumstances of 
this case, it follows  that, other what I think it needs  to do in terms of providing evidence  of 
the default having been removed in the event Miss J requests this, Im not directing it to do 
anything more or anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons  explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already done to 
put things right for Miss J is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her complaint. So 
Im not requiring to do anything more or anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN06160542
Ref: DRN0616054