K820x#14complaint
Miss H has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited overcharged her for her motor 
insurance policy.
Reference to Aviva  includes its agents.
background
Miss H previously had a policy with Aviva. She later took out a policy with another insurer.  
She found out that her premium with the other  insurer was affected by a claim recorded on a 
shared insurance  database, the claims and underwriting exchange (CUE). She was told that 
the claim on CUE would  have affected  the premium Aviva had charged.
Miss H told Aviva that the claim had been incorrectly  recorded on CUE. So she thought  
Aviva had incorrectly calculated her premium. Aviva  said it had worked  out the premium on 
the information Miss H had given it. And that was that she hadn't had any claims.
Miss H brought  her complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't think Aviva had done anything  
wrong. Miss H didn't agree so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
After her policy with Aviva  had lapsed Miss H found out about some claims information  on 
CUE, which she didn't  believe  was accurate.   She was told that had most probably affected  
her premium  with Aviva. Aviva told Miss H that wasn't the case. It said that it hadn't  looked at 
external databases  - such as CUE - when it calculated her premium.  Instead it had charged 
her based  on the information shed provided, which  was that she hadn't  had any claims or 
accidents in the previous five years. 
Miss H said that the premium Aviva had charged  her was considerably higher than her 
premium a year earlier with another insurer. So she thinks Avivas  premium must have been  
affected by the claim on CUE.
In order to consider  this complaint we asked Aviva to show  us how it calculated  Miss Hs 
premium. That information is commercially  sensitive so I can't share  it with her. But having 
looked at it very carefully Im satisfied  that it hasn't been affected  by any claims information.  
So, theres no evidence,  beyond Miss Hs suggestion, that the premium Aviva charged  her 
increased because  of the information on CUE. So Im satisfied that Aviva didn't do anything 
wrong when calculating Miss Hs premium.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2019.
Ref: DRN00602172Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0060217