K822xcomplaint
Ms Vs complaint is about the service she received from esure Insurance Limited when it 
was repairing her home following a claim on her home insurance  policy  with it.
Ms Vs partner has been very involved in the claim and complaint, but I will refer to Ms V 
throughout when  actions  or comments have been  made by either  of them.
background 
In April 2018 Miss V contacted esure after having a structural survey of her home completed. 
The survey  indicated there had been some structural movement. esure arranged for the 
property to be assessed by a firm of loss adjusters. It was determined there were leaking 
drains which had washed out some soil beneath  the foundations, causing  subsidence.  The 
drains were  repaired by the end of April. The loss adjusters drew up a schedule of works for 
the repairs and appointed  contractors. 
Initially the repairs were  expected to start at the end of May 2018. However, due to asbestos 
testing, questions about the schedule  of works by both the loss adjusters and Ms V, the 
external repairs didnt start until July 2018 and the internal repairs started in September  
2018. At the point the internal repairs started, the levelling of the landing  floor had still not 
been agreed and was not until the end of September 2018.  
Shortly after the internal repairs started concerns were  raised  about the actions of the 
contractors as it didnt  appear to Ms V that they were  taking  precautions to reduce the effect 
of the works on Ms Vs medical condition. The loss adjusters had been told about this in 
June 2018. It appears this information hadnt  been  communicated to the contractors. 
In September  the member of staff at the loss adjusters that was responsible for Ms Vs claim 
changed. She wasnt told and became aware of the change when chasing a response to an 
email. It was shortly thereafter  that Ms V raised  concerns about the communication and 
progress of the repairs. 
A couple of weeks later the final job was scheduled  in to be done, which was levelling the 
kitchen floor. When the contractor attended  to do so, it was discovered the original plan 
wouldnt be possible as there were gas and heating pipes in the way. In order to complete  
the repairs to the floor it was determined that the pipes would need to be re-routed. esure 
approved additional works, but it was over a month later the plumber attended to deal with 
the pipework.
At this point Ms V stopped the works. This was because her understanding was that the 
pipes were to be moved so that they were surface  mounted on walls, rather than hidden  
under the floor, which  she didnt want. There were also concerns over the scope  of the 
repairs given the floor sloped toward  a corner and the arrangement the contractor was 
proposing didnt involve the entire  floor being  worked on (and the associated  removal  of the 
kitchen). 
Ms Vs concerns were looked  into and the contractor  said it hadnt been  planned to surface 
mount the pipes. However, the schedule  of works we have been provided  with detailed that 
the pipes were to be re-routed beneath  the kitchen units, which  would indicate  Ms Vs 
understanding was correct. esure  suggested  to the loss adjusters that a further visit to the 
Ref: DRN03990452property would be an appropriate way forward. The loss adjusters  looked into options  that 
might satisfy Ms V, but eventually a meeting  was booked for the middle of January 2019.  
The meeting  took place  and it appears  that the surveyor  agreed  with Ms V that the scope of 
repairs wasnt sufficient to repair their floor adequately. Further  attempts to complete  the 
repairs were done  but by the middle  of April Ms V confirmed she didnt  want  the contractor to 
return to her home. By this time the kitchen floor works hadnt been done.  A cash  settlement 
was agreed and paid at the beginning of June.  This has enabled Ms V to have the repairs  to 
her home finished.
In mid-January 2020 esure accepted  the service Ms V received wasnt what  it should have 
been. It said it would feedback to its loss adjuster and paid Miss V £300 compensation. Ms V 
wasnt satisfied with esures response  and referred  her complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He concluded that the service Ms V, 
especially when considered in relation to her medical situation,  was not what it should  have  
been. He recommended  esure increase the compensation it had already paid by a further 
£350.
esure accepted the investigators  recommendation.
Ms V didnt accept the investigators  view. She said that she didnt  think  the amount of 
compensation was fair as shed had to fight tooth  and nail to get agreement  on the floors.  
Firstly they had to prove there was a problem  with the landing floor, then there  was the 
argument about how much work would be done and they had to tell the contractors how to 
fix the problem.  She had to replace the carpet and underlay on the stairs  and landing 
because it was damaged when her partner took them up to prove  the damage to esure.  
Ms V pointed out that she hadnt asked for payment  for the replacement carpet, but believed 
if the carpet  had been taken up by professionals it wouldnt have needed replacing. When  
invited to, Ms V provided evidence of the replacement and fitting costs for the new carpet. 
Ms V said that she was unhappy that they had a house that was worthless as it was not 
certificated. She also said that some of the works hadnt been  done well and needed more 
work, such as the roof of the lean-to leaking and only one coat of paint having been applied  
to the repaired  external  walls, which she will have to remedy.  Ms V also expressed  
dissatisfaction that only the two walls repaired by esure had been painted, leaving a 
mismatch between them and the two that hadnt  been worked  on. 
In addition, Ms V explained she worked as a carer but had been unable to during the claim 
because they had dogs and the contractors wouldnt always  advise in advance  that they 
were coming to do work.  This meant that she might have to be at home  unexpectedly  and 
couldnt be reliable,  which she couldnt be in her profession. 
When asked how much compensation she wanted, Ms V said at least  £3,500. She said her 
health had deteriorated due to the conditions she was living in because  esures  contractors 
hadnt protected the house  from dust.  She confirmed shed been put back on 6 monthly 
check-ups for her medical condition  rather than annual  visits as it was before.
Our investigator was satisfied the compensation for non-financial loss was appropriate given 
the evidence we had when he issued  his opinion. However, he invited Ms V to provide 
evidence of the deterioration  in her health  and he would  reconsider his conclusion. In 
Ref: DRN03990453addition, he indicated that he might recommend a payment  in relation to the removal  and 
reinstatement of the carpet given evidence.  
Ms V provided a letter  from her GP, but she was not satisfied with its content and 
acknowledged that it didnt support her statement about her health deteriorating. She also 
provided two invoices  one for the purchase of the replacement carpet and another for 
replacement underlay  and fitting.  These totalled £180. 
Our investigator confirmed they would be included in the evidence passed  to the 
ombudsman for consideration. The complaint was then passed  to me for consideration. I 
issued my provisional decision on 19 October  2020, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Before addressing the merits of Ms Vs complaint, I would  comment  on her concern that her 
home is worthless because it hasnt  been certificated. I am not entirely certain  of what  
certification Ms V is referring to, but the only certificate that is usually  issued on properties 
that have suffered subsidence is a certificate  of structural adequacy. This is the document  
potential buyers and their lenders would want to see before purchase.  esure issued Ms V a 
certificate of structural adequacy  in July 2019.  If she didnt receive  it, I would suggest  she 
ask esure  to provide her with a copy.
It has been acknowledged by esure that this claim was not well handled and so I have  only 
produced a brief summary of the key events above. This doesnt  mean  that I am not aware 
of all the detail  the parties  have provided;  I simply dont  believe it is necessary to document  
those events in detail as both parties are fully aware  of them.
Before considering the main outstanding issue on this case   the amount of compensation 
for non-financial loss  I would like to confirm  that I cant consider some of the issues Ms V 
raised in her response  to the investigators opinion on her complaint. She hasnt raised any 
concerns with esure about, for example, the quality of the external repairs. Natural justice, 
and the rules we work under, require a business to be given the opportunity  of looking into 
any concerns like this before we can become involved. We also dont, at the present time, 
have sufficient evidence  to be able to comment. However, if Ms V genuinely believes some 
of the repairs  will need further works, it would be reasonable for her to raise that with esure.
Ms V has also said that she was unable to work because  she has dogs  and she wasnt told 
when workmen were  turning up. I think it is clear that the repairs were  not particularly well 
organised and so I have  no reason  to doubt that Ms V wasnt  at all times kept appraised  of 
the schedule for works on her home. I can also understand that she would have been asked 
to keep her dogs away from the contractors when they were  in the property. However,  I dont 
think that there being the possibility of contractors turning up unexpectedly to find her dogs 
loose and, therefore, unable to do the works, necessitated her giving up work. As such, I 
dont intend to make an award for that issue.
In relation to the landing and stair carpets,  I accept that it was likely that these  being  
removed made the difference in having  the claim for the damage to the landing  floor 
accepted. I am also satisfied that had esure accepted the damage at an earlier stage  it 
would have had to arrange  for the removal  and reinstatement of the existing carpet and it 
should at the very least pay for the fitting of the new carpet.
Ms V has explained that due to his frustration with esure not accepting  the damage  to the 
floors, her partner tore up the carpets and they were damaged in the process.  I can see 
Ref: DRN03990454how this could have  happened, indeed, damage could have been caused to the carpets 
even if there  hadnt  been annoyance  and frustration affecting his actions. In the 
circumstances, I think  esure should  pay the entire  cost of replacement carpets and fitting 
totalling £180 plus interest at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Our investigator will forward  a copy of the invoices to esure shortly.  
There were significant  delays in the repairs being undertaken and its clear that initially the 
contractors hadnt  been told about Ms Vs medical condition. That wasnt acceptable. 
However, even if the property had been  appropriately protected with dustsheets, it would 
only have reduced  the amount of dust in the property.  There would have been significant 
amounts of dust simply because of the nature of the repairs  and that dust would have  taken 
some time to eventually  settle. 
In addition, Ms V had to arrange  the remaining repairs herself  because  shed lost confidence 
in esures contractors ability to do the job satisfactorily. I dont think  this was an 
unreasonable position for Ms V to take given all the events. It would also appear the loss 
adjusters were not proactively  managing  the claim.  On that basis  I dont think the £300 esure  
paid Ms V was sufficient  to compensate for the level of inconvenience and upset caused. 
Whilst I know that Ms V will not be happy  with my conclusion, but I am in agreement  that a 
total payment  of £750 is appropriate in the circumstances. 
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any further  comments or evidence  from the parties, I 
see no reason to change my conclusions. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require esure Insurance  Limited to pay 
Ms V:
A further  £350  compensation for the distress and inconvenience  she suffered.
Refund the £180 spent on replacing the carpet  damaged in proving the damage to the 
landing floor. Interest should be paid on this sum from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement at 8% simple per year. If esure considers it is required to deduct tax from the 
interest paid, it should provide Ms V with relevant  documentation for HMRC purposes.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0399045