K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that his account has been blocked by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax and about  its response to that. 
background
Mr B has a bank account with Halifax. It says that its fraud  team was concerned about some  
transactions on his account and his responses to its questions so his account was blocked in 
May 2019 and he was asked to go to a branch  with ID to discuss the transactions  further. It 
says that due to ongoing  concerns  the police were  contacted but Mr B left the branch  before 
they arrived and the police then visited him at his home where they confirmed they were 
happy with the transactions. Mr B complained to Halifax but wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  feel that it 
was unreasonable for Halifax to request evidence that Mr B was entitled  to the money  that 
was being received into his account and he said that this service doesnt  have the power to 
tell Halifax to change  its procedures. And he said that Halifax hadnt asked the police to visit 
Mr B at this home. He said that he understood Mr Bs concerns about going  back  to the 
branch because of his anxiety and he made some suggestions as to how he could produce 
his ID to the bank  without  going back to the branch. 
Mr B has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman  and hes asked 
whether his account can be closed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks have a legitimate interest  in identifying and preventing fraudulent transactions.  They 
use systems  that try to identify potentially fraudulent activity. But not all transactions  that are 
identified as potentially  fraudulent will actually be fraudulent. And the systems cant  identify 
and prevent all fraudulent  activity. This can affect  transactions that a customer  wants  to 
make and that will often cause inconvenience and frustration  to the customer.  But that 
doesnt mean that the bank is wrong to do so.
After Mr B had complained about its actions, Halifax wrote a final response letter  to him in 
May 2019 in which  it explained what had happened. It said:
Our Fraud Team has confirmed they were concerned with some  transactions on 
your account  and your responses to questions. They referred  you to a branch with ID 
to discuss the transactions further; however due to ongoing concerns the police were 
contacted. I understand the police  visited you after you left the branch and have 
confirmed they were happy with the transactions. As discussed, you will need to go 
back to a branch  with ID in order for the blocks to be removed from your account. I 
appreciate your frustration  with our security procedures. However, one of our main 
responsibilities is to safeguard your accounts from fraud. Im sorry for the 
inconvenience you experienced, but I hope you understand  that we acted with the 
best of intentions.
Ref: DRN03635932And it has confirmed that it contacted the police about the transaction  in accordance with its 
policy but that it didnt ask the police to visit Mr Bs home  that seems to have  been  a 
decision taken by the police.
I sympathise with Mr B for the distress and inconvenience that hes been caused as a result  
of his account being blocked  and I understand his concerns about his privacy  but Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Halifax  has acted incorrectly  in these 
circumstances. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  for me to require it to take any 
action in response to Mr Bs complaint.
I understand that Mr Bs account remains  blocked  and  if he hasnt already done  so  hell 
need to visit a Halifax branch with ID to get it unblocked. Mr B has asked about closing his 
account but thats something that hell have to discuss with Halifax   and I consider that its 
likely that hell need to unblock  the account  before he can close it. The investigator  has 
made some suggestions as to how Mr B can reduce his anxiety about visiting  a branch and 
Im not persuaded that its unfair  or unreasonable for Halifax to require him to attend a 
branch with ID.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0363593