K820x#14complaint
Ms W and Ms G complain about the increase in their home  insurance  premium by Society of 
Lloyds. 
background
Ms W and Ms G insured  their property with Lloyds  for a number of years. In December 
2017, when their policy was due to renew,  their premium increased from £700.24. They had 
been told by their broker that this was because Lloyds had ceded the flood risk to the 
government-run Flood Re scheme.  
Ms W and Ms G complained to Lloyds. They said their house  was at no risk of flooding. 
They said that although it was close to a river it was situated on a hill 30ft above the river. 
They said the house  built in 1750   had never flooded and that there  was a large flood 
plain between it and the river. Ms W and Ms G told Lloyds that the property was rated as 
very low risk of flooding on the Environment  Agency (EA) website.
Lloyds looked  into Ms W and Ms Gs complaint but didnt  think  itd done  anything wrong. It 
said its underwriters had used commercially  available modelling data to assess the flood risk 
to their property. It said a proportion of their premium was made up of that charged by Flood 
Re. It said its underwriters  assessed their property  as being very close to a river and a flood  
plain along with a large body of water  just over 100m away  that was on the same  level as 
the house. It said its underwriters had fairly  and consistently applied their commercial  
judgment when  setting the premium so it couldnt  ask them to change the premium. 
Ms W and Ms G said the large body of water  wasnt on the same  level as the house  and that 
it was irrelevant that the house was close the river. They said it was more relevant  that the 
house was at least 30ft above the river. 
Lloyds said it was up to underwriters to decide what risks to take on and what premium  to 
charge. It said that as long they acted  in a fair and consistent manner towards all their 
customers then they couldnt say theyd  done anything wrong. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Lloyds investigation  Ms W and Ms G complained  to this 
service. Our adjudicator investigated their complaint  but didnt recommend that it was 
upheld. The complaint was passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst I fully understand Ms W and       
Ms Gs frustrations  with the increase in their premium, Im afraid  that I dont think this is a 
complaint that Im able to uphold. Ill explain why. 
I cant tell Lloyds what price it should charge Ms W and Ms G for their home  insurance.  
Thats for it to decide based in part on the risk it thinks of them making a claim and its wider 
commercial requirements. I can only look at whether Lloyds  has treated Ms W and Ms G 
fairly, in line with its own internal guidance and underwriting criteria,  and in the same way as 
it would  any of its other customers.
Ref: DRN07953662When calculating Ms W and Ms Gs renewal price Lloyds will have needed to take into 
account a number of things. Those will have included  the risk its taken on for Ms W and    
Ms G and all of its other customers.  And the total number and value  of claims it thinks 
theyre likely  to receive in that year. Itll also factor in its administration  costs  and profit  
requirements. Each year Lloyds in entitled to reassess these factors when setting the price 
of its policies. So prices  can go up or down, depending on what it thinks the risks are that 
year for all of its customers. 
The price  of insurance is generally  set on the basis of a particular  insurers  view of the risk of 
claims at any given  time. Competing insurers will often have different views to each other  
about how likely it is that their customers will need  to claim. This will affect the price they 
need to charge in order to be sure that they can cover the cost of any claims made (and their 
overheads) as well as making a profit. 
This service asked Lloyds how it worked  out Ms W and Ms Gs renewal prices.  I can also 
see that Lloyds  has given Ms W and Ms G a detailed explanation  for the increase they saw. 
And I understand that Ms W and Ms G dont accept that explanation. 
Lloyds has said that Ms W and Ms G saw the increase in their renewal premium because a 
proportion of their premium was now made up of the premium charged by the government-
led insurer, Flood Re. Flood  Re exists to promote the availability and affordability  of flood 
insurance to households in a flood risk area where  many insurers  are no longer willing to 
provide such cover.  
Lloyds has said its underwriters used  commercially available  modelling  data to assess  the 
flood risk to Ms W and Ms Gs property. As the risk is Lloyds to take on it is up to it how it 
assesses that risk. It used  its modelling  data on the location of Ms W and Ms Gs property 
and it showed  their property to be close  to a river, a flood plain and a large body of water.  I 
know that Ms W and Ms G dispute  the level of risk those bodies of water pose to their 
property so I fully understand why they have chosen to challenge Lloyds about it. But 
Lloyds was offering  to insure their property  and its underwriters felt  based on the 
modelling data it chose to use  that it was a property  exposed to flood risk. As Ive said, the 
risk is Lloyds and its entitled to set a premium it feels fairly reflects  that risk. 
As long as Lloyds  treated Ms W and Ms G fairly, consistently and in the same way as it 
would any of its other customers  and I have to say I think it has  I cant  say its treated 
them unreasonably when setting their renewal  premium. I see that Ms W and Ms G decided  
not to renew their property with Lloyds but took out cover with another  insurer  for less. That 
insurers view of the risk posed to their property by flood may well have been very different to 
Lloyds. Indeed, its business model  and overheads arent likely to the have been the same 
either. So the two prices  cant be fairly  compared. But having looked at of the evidence 
presented, I havent  seen  anything to make me thing that Lloyds treated Ms W and Ms G 
unfairly when setting the price of their policy  at the 2017 renewal. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN07953663Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0795366