K822xcomplaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the service she received from Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. when she made a claim on her travel 
insurance policy. 
background 
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. Ive attached  a copy  
and it forms part of my final decision.  
In summary,  I said that I thought Mapfre should pay Mrs H a total of £400 for car hire, 
failings in the service  when  the claim was closed  and during the claims handling when Mrs H 
returned to the UK. 
However, I didnt uphold her other complaint points which related to the overall  service  shed 
received when she had a fall on holiday which left her needing surgery.  
Mapfre accepted  my provisional decision.  Mrs H didnt and made a number of further 
comments. In summary she said: 
The hospital told her Mapfre had held up her treatment and they had been provided  
with all the necessary  information about her condition  
She was reluctant to be repatriated by air ambulance because of the guidance given 
to her by the hospital and the amount  of pain she was in
Her partner spent money  on a taxi to collect their belongings and it was very stressful 
to then find out she wasnt going to be sent home by air ambulance
Mapfre should have  checked the situation with beds in the UK and she thinks this led 
to the decision  to cancel the air ambulance, rather than concern for her welfare
Mapfre were  trying  to save money and should never had considered  repatriating  her 
by air ambulance  
Its convenient Mapfre cant find the call made  by solicitor   she thinks  this was 
central to their decision to go ahead  with the surgery instead  of the air ambulance 
Mapfre didnt get back to her about  the car hire payment when they said they would
NHS advice and guidance has been  ignored
Mapfre didnt contact  her on her preferred number, instead  calling her partners 
number. 
So I need to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05736772As I outlined  in my provisional decision Mapfre has a responsibility  to handle claims promptly 
and fairly.  Mrs Hs further comments havent changed my thoughts  about  the outcome  of this 
complaint and I remain satisfied that a total settlement of £400 compensation is fair. I say 
that because:  
Im satisfied  Mapfre acted reasonably when Mrs H contacted them  for help.  I remain  
satisfied they addressed her claim with urgency and took reasonable steps  to move 
things forward quickly for the reasons I explained  in my provisional decision; 
I can understand why Mrs H was reluctant to travel by air ambulance given the 
amount of pain shes described. However, I think Mapfre  listened to her concerns 
and looked into the other available options; 
Its unfortunate that Mrs Hs partner  spent money on collecting her belongings and 
Im sorry  to hear that the cancellation of the ambulance caused Mrs H further  
distress. However, Im satisfied that its most  likely this decision was made because it 
was unclear whether a bed was available in the UK and because of the phone  call 
with Mrs H where she was clearly in distress;
Whilst the cost of the air ambulance was cheaper than the surgery  abroad Ive seen 
no evidence to suggest that cost was Mapfres primary motivation.  If anything their 
notes suggest  they were open  to exploring other  options and supporting Mrs H; 
As I outlined in my provisional decision I dont think the call from the solicitor is 
central to the outcome of this complaint. I think by this point Mapfre were  already 
weighing up the best course of action, including the availability  of beds and Mrs Hs 
pain levels. So Im not persuaded this call was the deciding  factor;
In my provisional decision I said that I was awarding compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused by not calling her back and not handling her claim promptly  on her 
return to the UK. So the award Im recommending takes into account  the points shes  
raised about Mapfre not responding about  the car hire;
 
I have taken into account Mrs Hs comments about guidance she received from her 
GP and her friends.  So this evidence hasnt been  ignored. Rather,  Ive placed more  
weight on the information thats been  provided  from the medical staff who treated or 
assessed her at the time;
Ref: DRN05736773Mrs H says that Mapfre called her on her partners number instead of hers as shed 
requested. I can see that Mapfre  did call her partner when  they arranged  for a doctor 
to check Mrs Hs condition at her hotel. During that conversation Mrs H didnt say it 
was important to call her number rather than her partners  which  Id have  expected 
her to do if this was likely to be a problem  or had been a significant problem. In any 
event, taking into account all of the circumstances,  if Mapfre did call the wrong  
number on some occasions, this doesnt  change my thoughts  about  the overall 
award Im making in this case as I think it fairly reflects the overall inconvenience 
Mrs H experienced. 
putting things right
Mapfre needs to put things  right by:
Settling the hire car costs by paying  up to £100  for a weeks  car hire. They should 
add 8% simple interest from the date of the claim being made to the point its 
settled*;
Paying Mrs H £300 compensation for not the trouble and upset  caused  by not calling 
her back  on the 19 September and not handling  her claim promptly  on her return to 
the UK.If  this isnt paid within 28 days of my final decision being accepted then 8% 
simple interest should be added  from that date to the time the settlement is made*. 
my final decision
Im partly upholding Mrs Hs complaint  about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A and directing them to pay the compensation Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
*If Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it 
should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should  also give her a certificate showing this if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN05736774COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the service she received from Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional  De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. when  she made a claim  on her travel insurance policy. 
background
Mrs H was on holiday  when  she had a bad fall. She was taken to hospital for treatment. The hospital  
said she needed surgery. Mapfre  started to make arrangements to repatriate her back  to the UK. 
However, they subsequently agreed to pay for the surgery  to take place in Spain. In summary, Mrs H 
feels Mapfre delayed  things and left her in pain because they wanted to go with the cheaper option of 
flying her home. 
Mrs H had the operation  and Mapfre wanted to make arrangements to get her back to the UK. Mrs H 
felt that this was rushed  and she says her GP was telling her she shouldnt fly for at least three 
weeks. Shes unhappy because Mapfre discontinued  cover from the point they thought  she was fit to 
fly and with the overall customer  service she received.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think  that Mapfre  had caused delays and 
said they had kept Mrs H updated. And she thought Mapfre had acted reasonably  when they ended  
cover as theyd taken  steps to get Mrs H home, but she wanted to wait. So she didnt uphold  Mrs Hs 
complaint in full because she thought Mapfre had acted  reasonably. She did say Mapfre  should  cover 
some of the hire car costs and awarded £300 trouble  and upset for the failure to call Mrs H back on 
the 19 September 2018,  the day her cover ceased.  
Mapfre agreed. Mrs H didnt  agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint.  In summary  
she said: 
Mapfre left her for over 24 hours and didnt tell her what was happening
 
There wasnt any consideration for her health and wellbeing   Mapfre  were  trying to save  
money
The reason she wasnt repatriated to the UK was because  there werent  any beds available 
Mapfre only agreed to the surgery after theyd spoken to a solicitor  who had attended the 
hospital and spoke to them
It wasnt true that Mapfre had struggled to contact her partner
She didnt  refuse to see a private doctor  Mapfre  had told her the doctor would be attending 
on a different  day
She listened to the advice of NHS professionals  who said she shouldnt fly for at least  three 
weeks
The fit to fly certificate was issued  by someone who had never seen her. 
Mrs H also said she wanted  certain calls listened to. So I requested copies  of the calls I considered  to 
be relevant and Mapfre have provided  them.  They have not provided a copy of the call that took place 
with the solicitor as I understand its not been possible to locate it. 
Ref: DRN05736775my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The relevant rules  and industry guidelines say Mapfre has a responsibility to handle claims promptly 
and fairly. 
Im upholding  Mrs Hs complaint in part. I agree Mapfre should pay the hire car costs and £300 for the 
trouble and upset caused by not contacting Mrs H on the 19 September and delays in progressing  
Mrs Hs claim when she had returned home. 
However, in relation to the other points Mrs H has raised, about delays and her medical treatment, Im 
satisfied Mapfre acted  reasonably. The information Ive seen suggests they acted proactively and kept 
Mrs H, and her partner, updated at reasonable intervals. I say that because: 
Mrs Hs accident was first reported to Mapfre on 4 September  2018 shortly before 7pm but 
the advisor wasnt able to gather much information during the initial call. Mapfre needed 
information about  the circumstances of the accident and proactively contacted the hospital 
asking for the information  they needed to start dealing with the claim; 
Mapfre spoke to Mrs Hs partner on the 5 September at around 10.30am  and shortly 
afterwards received the authority from Mrs H to liaise with the medical team treating her, via 
the hospital. Mapfre  responded  a few minutes later asking for a medical report  and explaining 
Mrs H hadnt completed  information about the circumstances of the accident, which they 
needed to decide if she was covered.  They also sent an email to Mrs Hs partner that morning 
saying they needed  this information and asking  if he could help by sending a picture of the 
medical report. Mapfre explained theyd also asked for this information from the hospital.  They 
spoke to Mrs Hs partner  again at around 11.15am and said they needed  more  information  
about the circumstances  of the accident.  He chased the hospital whilst on the phone to 
Mapfre and the medical report came through a few minutes later;
I can see that Mapfre sent this to their medical team immediately and marked it as urgent.  
Within around half an hour Mapfre  were  looking  for quotes to repatriate Mrs H home  by air 
ambulance and also obtained a quote for the surgery in Spain. By around 1pm they told the 
hospital they were  looking to bring Mrs H home rather than go ahead  with the surgery. This 
information was communicated to Mrs Hs partner at around 1.30pm. In a further call at 
2.30pm they confirmed the claim was covered  and they were  looking to get the air ambulance 
there the next day. As Mrs H was stressed  and said she didnt want  to go home on the air 
ambulance they agreed to look into other options, which I think  was reasonable; 
Ive listened to a call between  Mrs Hs partner and Mapfre which took place on the 
5 September at around 3pm,  the day after Mrs Hs accident. Mapfre explained  they were  
looking to arrange  an air ambulance but they needed to confirm the availability of beds in the 
UK. Mrs Hs partner  asked about  where  they would be repatriated to and said they wanted to 
go to their local hospital. So Mapfre proceeded on that basis;
Mrs Hs partner did ask about cost during  a call on the 5 September  and Mapfre confirmed 
the air ambulance was cheaper by around £10, 000. But the context of the conversation was 
that Mapfre were responding  to a query hed raised. They went  on to explain they would cover 
the first £16, 000 of treatment if Mrs H decided she wanted to stay and have the operation, as 
thats what they would pay towards  the air ambulance; 
Ref: DRN05736776Mapfre called Mrs H at around 8pm on the 5 September and explained  they were  having  
difficulty in confirming  a bed at her local hospital. She gave  them  the name of an alternative. 
During the call the advisor did say they were  still considering surgery as an option. Its clear 
that Mrs H was highly distressed during the call and she explained  she was in a lot of pain. 
But I think  the advisor  was empathetic and was clear that they were exploring all options to 
help Mrs H. They  explained  theyd  continue to work on this overnight and said theyd contact 
her with an update the following morning; 
The following day, at 9am on the 6 September, they phoned her to confirm she could have 
the operation  and theyd pay for it. So I think they did keep Mrs H updated and acted  within 
the timescales they gave her;
Mapfre havent located  the call between the solicitor  and their advisor which  Mrs H says took 
place early  on the 6 September. But I dont think this is central  to the outcome of the 
complaint. Based  on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied there were  a number of factors 
Mapfre had to weigh up, including  Mrs Hs state  of distress  and pain levels, the availability of 
beds in the UK and the cost of the two options to get her treatment. As Ive outlined  above 
they notified Mrs H of their decision  at around 9am on the 6 September. So I think  its unlikely 
the call from the solicitor was central to their decision making process;  
Based on the information Ive seen, I think the main barrier  to repatriation by air ambulance 
was the availability of a bed at Mrs Hs local hospital and Mapfres  concern  for Mrs Hs 
welfare following her conversation with them on the evening of the 5 September. I can see 
that Mapfre arranged for a more  senior colleague to attend the office on that evening,  
following the call with Mrs H, to review the case and I can see from the file Mapfre were at risk 
of incurring significant  costs of around 
€8, 500 by cancelling  the air ambulance  at very short notice. So Im not persuaded that their 
actions were based solely on cost or that they disregarded Mrs Hs health and wellbeing;
Mapfre made the guarantee of payment to the hospital at around 11am  on the
6 September, following  emails with the hospital about the extent of the costs theyd cover. I 
think they arranged this within a reasonable  timescale. Whilst  its unfortunate Mrs Hs 
operation didnt go ahead that day, I dont think that was as a result of a delay on Mapfres 
part as Im satisfied they were acting proactively to ensure the operation went  ahead as soon 
as possible;
Mapfre told Mrs H she would covered for cover of up to £100 for a weeks car hire and that 
shed be able to claim this back. However, this was declined on her return. Mapfre  has now 
agreed to cover the cost of this, which I think is reasonable;
I appreciate  Mrs H was listening to the advice  of her GP and friends  with medical  training who 
said she shouldnt  fly for at least three weeks. But Im satisfied Mapfre took into account all of 
the relevant medical  information before deciding  Mrs H was fit to fly. Mapfre were exploring 
repatriation options,  so they were considering how to get Mrs H home safely and what  
medical support shed  need.  When Mrs H raised  concerns, they arranged for a Doctor to 
attend and assess her condition,  which  is what Id expect them to do; 
Ive listened to the call between Mrs H and Mapfre where they arranged for a private doctors  
appointment. Mrs H said she was struggling  to get in and out of the building so they said they 
would get someone to her, rather  than getting her to attend a clinic.  They told her that would 
probably be quite  soon  over the next few days or possibly on Monday. The advisor told her 
theyd be in touch to confirm.  Mapfre then attempted  to call Mrs Hs partner shortly before 
8pm. However, they got an automated message to say he was on another  call. They followed 
this up with an email to confirm the appointment had been arranged. So I dont think they told 
Mrs H her appointment was on a particular  day and they did warn  her that the appointment 
may happen quickly. Im also satisfied they took reasonable steps to let her know about it as 
they phoned and emailed  her;
Ref: DRN05736777I appreciate  Mrs H is frustrated that she didnt see the person who decided she was fit to fly. 
But Im satisfied that the decision was reasonable and was based  on a review of the available 
medical evidence. Im not suggesting  that Mrs H was trying to prolong  her trip. However,  Im 
satisfied it was reasonable to conclude  the medical evidence suggested  that she could  be 
repatriated by air from the 19 September onwards; 
Mapfre agrees  Mrs H didnt receive a call back  on the 19 September when she should  have 
done. Theyve also acknowledged there were  customer service  issues on her return to the UK 
as Mapfre  werent proactive about  acting on Mrs Hs emails  when processing the claim. 
However, I think the £300 compensation  theyve agreed to fairly reflects the trouble and upset 
caused as a result of these  issues. So Im not intending to say they should pay any further 
compensation. 
putting things  right
Mapfre needs  to put things right by:
Settling the hire car costs by paying up to £100 for a weeks car hire. They  should  
add 8% simple interest  from the date of the claim  being  made  to the point its settled*;
Paying Mrs H £300 compensation for not the trouble and upset caused by not calling her back 
on the 19 September and not handling her claim  promptly on her return to the UK.If this isnt 
paid within 28 days of my final decision being accepted then 8% simple interest should  be 
added from that date to the time the settlement is made*. 
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold Mrs Hs complaint  about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania  Internacional  De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A to the extent Ive outlined  above. Mrs H and Mapfre should let me know 
by 31 May 2019, if they have  any further information theyd like me to take into account which might 
make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
*If Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should  tell Mrs H how 
much its taken off. It should  also give her a certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0573677