K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about issues hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from Oodle 
Financial Services Limited.
background
In September  2018 Mr P was supplied with a second hand car and entered  into a hire 
purchase agreement  with Oodle.
At the point of supply the car was approximately 6 years old and had covered approximately 
98,000 miles.
Mr P experienced a number of issues with the car including rusted  brakes and callipers, 
stone chips on the bonnet  and a dirty/damp interior. He also said the exhaust was blowing, 
the handbrake needed adjusting and the car was pulling to the left and losing power in low 
gear.
Approximately 10 days after being supplied with the car Mr P returned it to the dealer and 
said he wanted to reject it. He left the car with the keys and paperwork.
The dealership contacted  Mr P the next day. It said it would repair the stone chips  on the 
bonnet, replace the exhaust  bolts,  replace the rear brake discs  and pads and clean the 
callipers, valet the interior and clean the sub frame. It said it would carry out tracking to 
remedy any pulling but said it had found  no issues relating to loss of power  or a blowing 
exhaust. The dealer told Mr P it wouldnt accept a rejection of the car because the issues  
were cosmetic.
Mr P didnt agree. He said the rust was structural not cosmetic. He complained to Oodle. 
Oodle said it didnt  accept  Mr Ps request to reject the car and suggested  that he liaise  with 
the dealer regarding the repairs.
Mr P was unhappy with the response  so he complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold  the complaint and said that rust/corrosion  was to be expected  on a car of this 
age and that the offer to repair  by the dealer was fair.
Mr P didnt agree. He said he wasnt prepared to make payments towards the car because  
of its condition.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Oodle  supplied  the car under  a hire purchase agreement,  theres an implied  term it 
has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard  that 
a reasonable person would expect,  taking into account all of the relevant circumstances 
such as (amongst other things) the age and mileage of the car and the price  paid. I would 
expect a second hand car to have  a degree of wear and tear. So in order to uphold the 
complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply due to an inherent defect rather than general  wear and tear.
Ref: DRN02254882Mr P and Oodle disagree about whether the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply. In order to reach  a decision  I need  to look at the available  evidence and determine, 
on the balance  of probability,  whether I think the car was of satisfactory quality. 
Mr P identified a number of issues with the car in the days after the point  of supply. The 
supplying dealer says these are cosmetic issues and has offered to repair  them. The dealer 
didnt find any performance issues with the car.
Mr P doesnt  agree  that a repair will resolve  the issues.  He says they go beyond cosmetic 
and that the corrosion affects the structure  of the car and makes it of unsatisfactory quality.
Ive taken into account the fact that the car was almost 5 years old and had covered  
approximately 98,000 miles at the point of supply. Given the cars age, I would  expect to see 
a degree of wear  and tear, including rust and corrosion. This doesnt  mean  that the car is of 
unsatisfactory quality  because  rust and corrosion  is generally a wear  and tear issue. 
A report obtained by Mr P identifies rust and corrosion in a number of areas. These  have 
been graded in the report as requiring attention in the near future. Theres nothing  in the 
report to suggest  that the functionality of safety of the car has been affected by the 
corrosion. Nor is there anything in the report which says the car is structurally unsound.
The report  supports the view taken by the dealer which is that the rust and corrosion is a 
cosmetic issue.
On balance, I cant fairly conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. The dealer has offered to repair the cosmetic issues which  I think  is a fair resolution 
to the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0225488