K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complained about the way Standard Life Savings Limited  undertook corrective  work  on 
his self-invested pension plan (SIPP) In September 2018. He didnt  think they offered 
enough by way of apology.
Background
Around 8 September 2018  Mr M says he noticed a problem with the value shown on his 
Standard Life SIPP. Its clear from emails provided  to this service  by Mr M and Standard 
Life, that Mr M contacted his investment manager/ adviser at Standard Life, as well as their 
SIPP Wrap team.
In summary,  and although it took time to identify precisely what had happened, Mr Ms SIPP 
was having corrective  work completed  as there had been an error  in relation to a 
disinvestment that ought to have been  applied in March 2015. This meant Mr M wasnt  able 
to access online information on his SIPP as he was usually able to. And when he did, it 
showed the wrong balance (a far higher sum than it ought to have done here).  Unfortunately 
neither Mr M nor his investment manager  had been  told about this corrective  working being 
done in advance; so they didnt know what was happening at first.
The 8 September 2018  was a Saturday.  Standard  Life say the work had been expected to 
be completed in two days and as this was over a weekend Mr M would  have been  informed  
once it was done. But in the event there  were technical problems so the work  took much  
longer than expected; and they apologized Mr M hadnt been informed in advance. 
By 14 September 2018 Mr Ms investment manager was emailing  Mr M with further information 
on why the fund value had been  showing as inflated over the previous few days.  And he said 
hed asked for an explanation and highlighted the confusion  and upset  Mr M had been caused. 
It appears Standard  Life think some  information  was provided earlier than this date.
There was ongoing  contact between Mr M and the investment manager as well as Mr M and 
other parties  at Standard Life, whom he had contacted  about  this; and he went  on to complain.
On 23 October 2018 Standard Life contacted Mr M and apologized for the delays taken in 
completing the corrective work on his plan. They set out what  had been done and that they 
had informed Her Majestys Revenue  and Customs of the payment Mr M had not received in 
2015. Standard Life said they had ensured the units had been reallocated as at the original 
date to ensure  hed suffered no loss from the error and they sent a replacement P60. They  
also confirmed the relevant  department  would reply  to Mr Ms complaint.
Standard Life issued their reply dated 6 November  2018. In it they set out the corrective 
work required and undertaken by their Wrap team. But accepted Mr M (and the Standard  
Life investment team) ought to have been  given advance warning of this work and to have 
been told the values available to Mr M online would be inaccurate during this time. Standard 
Life apologized for this and the concern this would have caused Mr M. They  acknowledged 
their understanding his SIPP  value had been wrongly inflated by £60,000 at the time.
Standard Life said the correct value  had been made available online to Mr M from 12 
October 2018. Standard Life said theyd arranged for £250 to be paid into Mr Ms bank 
account as part of their apology.
Ref: DRN03497542Mr M rejected this resolution. He didnt think theyd offered enough and told Standard Life 
that unless they wanted  to make him an offer to persuade him otherwise he would refer his 
complaint to this service.
In rejecting the offer Mr M referred to the volatility in the market during the relevant time. He 
referred to a loss in the value of his investments and that during the relevant time his fund 
was in lock down . He also referred  to the impossibility of obtaining any assessment on how 
the relevant fund was actually performing.
Standard Life felt they had offered enough and Mr M referred his complaint here.
In summary  he told us that although  there had been  ongoing emails and apologies and a 
confirmation Standard Life were looking at the problem, the issue  had still taken some time 
to fix. Overall he says he found  it hard to get any true evaluation during the time (which 
seems to have been put at seven or eight weeks by Mr M) of how his SIPP was performing. 
He also told us he didnt  know  if the SIPP was actually accessible at the time.
Mr M thought Standard  Life ought  to have  recommended taking his SIPP  out of the market 
and not open to fluctuation and market  effects during the time their technical experts took to 
fix the problem.
Mr M told us he was furious about the time involved and work done. He said Standard Life had 
failed to acknowledge the excitement and trauma caused by seeing growth of some  £49,000.
Standard Life told us that in light of Mr Ms comments they wanted to confirm  their corrective 
work began on Saturday  8 September and that Mr M confirmed he was aware of the issue when 
contacting his Private Client Manager  on 11 September 2018. During regular contact with this 
manager while the system  issue was being resolved, there was no request for an accurate 
valuation or any suggestion or intimation of a wish to switch  funds. They  didnt think  Mr M had 
incurred any financial loss as a result of what happened,  rather a loss of expectation.
Our investigator asked  Standard Life for more information. They told us:
Ordinarily, clients would be given advance  warning of corrective work being carried  
out. However, in this case, it was (incorrectly) envisaged  the correction would be 
done in a very short time period (two days,  with work beginning  on a weekend);  
and confirmation  would  be provided  post- update. But the technology 
complications meant it took much longer than this.
Standard Life were unable to locate Mr Ms call of 8 September.
But they confirmed  Mr and M and his adviser  were in regular contact during this 
time. Had Mr M wished to take any action on his plan, he could have arranged this 
via his investment  manager/ adviser. But no request was made, and no indication  
was given he wished  to offset any potential  losses.
The actual  correction  process involved having to strip all transactions  back  to the 
date of error, and then reinstate them all with the £500  correction in place, which  
required a large  amount  of manual work  and ultimately  caused  the delay.
We were also sent a report showing plan performance between 8 September  2018 and 
23 October 2018.
Ref: DRN03497543The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. She acknowledged  the confusion  and loss 
of expectation  suffered  by Mr M. But overall  thought Standard Life had done enough to 
reflect this in their offer of £250. She didnt think Mr M had been caused  loss by the 
corrective work, and any loss was connected  to investment change. She asked Mr M to 
provide any further  information he may want to provide about  the loss he felt he had suffered 
as her assessment  of the performance of the SIPP showed a lower  figure  than that referred 
to by Mr M. Although she indicated there  was nothing to suggest any loss was connected to 
the corrective work; and that Mr M could have obtained fund performance information at the 
time from his investment  manager.
She also explained that she didnt  agree his SIPP and investments ought to have been 
removed from the market during the time. This was because market performance  and 
conditions cant be predicted  and it is only with hindsight it can be identified what happened 
during any period of time.
Mr M rejected the view.  He didnt think eight weeks was a reasonable period of time for a big 
company with all the available technology  to remedy the problem. He also didnt think it was 
acceptable for them to pay in £250 to his account without asking him to accept beforehand.  
He stressed that his SIPP had been wrongly  increased by some  £59,000,
Mr M also wanted to know if other  people  had been  in a similar position; and said he 
intended to take his case to the regulator. Mr M has referred to this matter being a 
catastrophic error; he also felt the offer made by Standard Life was patronising.
I asked Standard Life for some further  information.  They told us:
Mr M would have  been  able to take action on his account, and the issue  was solely that 
he did not have  online access  to real time values.
There were no trades in the year leading up to the issue  in question,  including  fund 
switches, and a current value had not been  requested by Mr M.  Had it been, it would 
have been possible  to arrange  for the value to be calculated manually.  
The last fund switch looked to have been  in October 2015.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
investigator, and for broadly the same  reasons.
Standard Life accepted  their service fell short and apologized for this almost immediately. 
They went  on to pay Mr M £250. Ive seen hes unhappy this was paid into his account prior 
to his acceptance. But I dont think this payment was intended to be anything further than a 
gesture of apology. So I dont think Standard Life did anything  wrong in making this 
payment. I dont think it was intended  to prevent him referring his complaint further and it 
didnt. Such  a payment would not have prevented me telling Standard Life they needed to 
pay a further sum, if I thought that was right.
Ref: DRN03497544I think the amount  paid was sufficient in the circumstances  of this matter.  I hope Mr M 
understands it isnt the role of this service to punish a business  and our awards tend to be 
modest. I think  Standard  Lifes  offer was in line with what I would have otherwise asked them  
to pay Mr M. Ive seen Mr M has referred to wanting to contact the regulator about this, and 
that is a matter for him.
I accept the remedial work done on Mr Ms SIPP didnt cause him financial loss; nor do I 
think there was any significant  loss of expectation. Based on what  I have seen, once Mr M 
saw his SIPP showed an apparent substantial gain, he queried  this and thought there  was a 
problem with the value. Mr M says he frequently checked his values online, so he had a 
general idea of the value  hed expect to see; subject to market  fluctuation.  Indeed by 12 
September 2018 for example, Mr M contacted his fund manager  to ask him to make 
enquiries about the value  apparently  being adjusted  or tampered with. So although the 
value appears  to have been wrongly  inflated,  this wasnt a sum Mr M was entitled to, nor did 
he believe  he was.
Even if Mr M had believed his fund had grown  by this value for any period of time, I think  he 
was quickly informed that wasnt right. I think the greatest inconvenience was not being  able 
to access the real time value of his SIPP online himself. I have no doubt this was frustrating 
and worrying. These  are Mr Ms funds and its clear he enjoyed  the facility of being  able to 
keep a regular  online check  on the value himself  directly.  Ive seen Mr M says he wasnt  able 
to do this for around  six or eight  weeks. Standard  Life say it was from 8 September 2018 
until 12 October 2018. I dont think I need  to know the precise period here, its clear it was for 
an extended period.
Its said Mr Ms investment manager  and adviser could have assisted him further  on fund 
value, performance and trading information  during this period had Mr M asked him. But 
based on what Ive been, this didnt  happen. Whilst I accept that the performance  of Mr Ms 
investment did fluctuate during the time Mr M wasnt able to monitor it himself online, based 
on what has been said and what Im told about  Mr Ms fund history, I dont think  theres  
enough to lead me to conclude he would have sought to change his investments during this 
time. I find it hard to accept that Mr M would  have felt confident enough  to trade  when he 
couldnt monitor the online performance as he was used to.
I agree  with the investigator that the suggestion  Mr Ms SIPP ought to have been taken out 
of the market in some  way during the remedial work wouldnt  have  been  right here, and for 
the same  reasons. I dont accept his funds  were locked down and I think the performance  
information of his investments remained available.
I think the information demonstrates that Mr M quickly identified there was a problem and 
asked his investment  manager for assistance in finding an explanation. Its clear  the 
investment manager  was initially  confused about what  had happened.  This would have 
understandably left Mr M feeling confused, frustrated and worried. 
On 14 September  2018 Mr Ms frustration was palpable, even as he started to get more of 
an understanding of what  had happened. I accept  he felt he ought to have been warned in 
advance; Standard Life also accept  this. 
Its also clear  that the remedial work  took an extended period.  Ive seen Mr M doesnt 
understand how this could  happen  given the available  technology.  Again, I understand his 
frustration; and I accept  Standard  Life do too.
Ref: DRN03497545Overall I need to look at whether Standard Life did something wrong; which its accepted they 
did. I then need  to consider whether they need to do anything further. Here  for the reasons  
given, I think the £250  paid is enough and I am not asking them  to do anything  further.
Final decision
So for the reasons given I uphold Mr Ms complaint about Standard  Life Savings Limited in 
part. But I think the sum already paid to Mr M was sufficient,  so I dont require them  to do 
anything further.  
Under our rules,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0349754