K820x#14complaint
Miss M has complained that Nationwide Building Society will not refund any of the 
commission it received from her PPI premiums  for the policy  that she took out in 1999 to 
cover his mortgage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain  why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31st October  2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. But it was possible for mortgages  taken  out 
before this date to become regulated, if a change was made to the mortgage   such as a 
further advance  or interest rate switch. Different  lenders took different  approaches to this. 
Miss M took out her mortgage  in 1999.  From  the information Nationwide  has provided, 
Miss M made a change to her mortgage in 2007  and Nationwide  has told us the entire 
mortgage became  regulated at that point. Based on what we have seen and what we know 
about how Nationwide completed these changes, Im satisfied that Miss Ms mortgage did 
become regulated.
As Miss Ms mortgage became regulated  before 6 April 2008  it was no longer  under the 
scope of the Consumer Credit  Act or the FCAs relevant  rules  and guidance.  So Nationwide  
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Miss M paid for the PPI she had with her 
mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2019.
Ref: DRN05709542Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0570954