K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the delays that he said occurred when Phoenix Life Assurance  
Limited (Phoenix)  transferred his pension plan to another  provider. He also complains that 
some information he received from Phoenix, which showed a higher plan valuation than the 
amount that was transferred,  was misleading. He wants  an explanation for the difference 
between those valuations  and to be paid the difference.
background
Mr W held a number of pension policies which he wanted to consolidate with one provider 
into a drawdown  contract. One of the plans was held with Phoenix  and had a normal  
retirement date (NRD)  of 10 August 2018.  So on 19 February 2018 Phoenix wrote  to Mr W 
to explain that he would  need to decide  what to do with his funds  by the NRD. It also noted 
that his estimated plan valuation was £161,604.45.
In March 2018, following an enquiry from him, Mr Ws adviser received a plan information 
pack from Phoenix which included key policy details. It confirmed the transfer value  as of 
20 March 2018   was £141,557.53 and that the money was invested in a With-Profit fund.  
In July 2018 Mr W contacted Phoenix to begin  the process of transferring his plan to the new 
provider. After further communication to confirm  if the new provider could accept the 
proceeds, and confirmation of Mr Ws remaining  lifetime allowance, £145,014.40 was 
transferred to the new provider at the end of September  2018.   
Following the transfer Mr W complained about  what he thought was a delay in completing 
the transfer. He also said that, in February  2018, he was advised that his plan was valued  at 
over £16,000 more than the amount that was eventually transferred. He wanted an 
explanation for why this happened. He also wanted to know why Phoenix said it had no 
record of any correspondence  which indicated the higher  value.
Phoenix accepted  it had caused a delay to the transfer of around  two weeks  and said it 
would contact the new provider to find out if Mr W had been disadvantaged by the delay. It 
also apologised for sending conflicting  information  to Mr W but confirmed, following further 
checks, that the amount  it had transferred had been  correct. It sent Mr W £200 for the 
trouble and upset  it had caused him.
Subsequently the new provider confirmed that if the transfer had taken place on 
14 September instead of 27 September 2018 additional units would have been obtained and 
so in February 2019 Phoenix transferred a further amount of £1,035.37 as redress for the 
delay.
But Mr W was unhappy with the explanation he received about the significant change  in the 
valuation between February and April 2018 so he brought his complaint to us, where one of 
our investigators looked in to the matter.  
She said that Mr W hadnt suffered any financial loss as Phoenix had paid him the correct 
transfer value   so she said he wasnt entitled  to receive the higher valuation. But she did 
think Mr W had suffered  a loss of expectation  and had spent considerable time trying  to 
resolve the matter.  She said that Phoenixs offer of £200 for the trouble and upset caused 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN07683262Mr W didnt agree. He said the main  point of his complaint  the reduction in the plans value 
 hadnt been addressed. He thought that the compensation Phoenix had paid him was for 
the delays hed incurred and wasnt relevant to the misleading valuation.  He asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to me for a review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know  this isnt the outcome 
Mr W would  have liked  and I have  some sympathy  for his position  here,  as he was given 
one valuation of his plan that was shown to be incorrect.  But I think that Phoenixs payment 
for the delay  it caused and the error  it made was fair and reasonable and I dont think it 
needs to do anything further.  
The delay in transferring
Ive looked very carefully at the timeline  of events after Mr W applied  to transfer his pension  
on 19 July 2018.  The transfer wasnt completed  until 26 September 2018 so it took over two 
months. 
Theres no dispute that Phoenix  didnt request the information it required about  the additional 
trustee until 19 days after it acknowledged the application. Phoenix hasnt provided any 
explanation for this delay and has accepted it was responsible. Thereafter Phoenix needed 
to confirm the additional trustee was acceptable to the new provider and then needed to 
confirm the amount of lifetime allowance Mr W had used. 
I know Mr W is unsure  about the need to obtain  this information and in any case  said it 
should have been requested sooner. But from the evidence Ive seen I dont think  Phoenix  
did cause any delays  over these matters and was entitled to request the information in order 
to ensure the transfer was completed  correctly  and was acceptable  to the new provider. 
Once Mr W had returned  the outstanding information Phoenix  transferred the funds within 
three weeks which I consider to be a reasonable timescale in which to have completed the 
transfer.
So looking  at the timeline as a whole I think Phoenix did delay matters  in the beginning but I 
think it acknowledged this delay and compensated Mr W for the investment loss he suffered 
by not completing  the transfer as quickly as it could have done. I think  the compensation 
Phoenix paid is a fair and reasonable reflection of the delays it caused and I dont think  it 
needs to do anything further.
The higher  valuation from February 2018
Although he also initially  complained about the delay  to his transfer Mr W says his main 
complaint is that he was advised  in February  2018   that his plan was valued  at around 
£161,000. He says just a few months  later the amount transferred was over £16,000  less 
and Phoenix hasnt given a satisfactory explanation for this, apart  from apologising for 
providing misleading information. He wants the difference to be paid to him.
Ref: DRN07683263I can understand Mr Ws frustration here and its clear  he did receive  a letter   in advance of 
the plans  NRD   that included an estimated  valuation of £161,604.45.  So I can see why he 
might have expected  to receive a similar  amount to be transferred to the new provider.
But Ive also seen that Phoenix  provided  Mr W (or his adviser)  with five further valuations  
from December 2017 to August 2018. These were as follows:
December 2017- £144,998.56. This was the expected transfer value  at Mr Ws NRD. 
March 2018- £141,557.53. An actual transfer  value
May 2018- £142,849.03. An actual transfer  value.
June 2018 £145,751.37. An estimated value. 
August 2018- £145,751.37. A current valuation.
Based on this information Im persuaded that the actual valuation  of the plan would have 
been closer to those  valuations  than the one Mr W received in February 2018. I think  its 
more likely than not that the figure  Mr W was provided with in February 2018 was a genuine  
error. I know  Mr W would  like a more  detailed explanation for this misleading information 
but I dont think  there is much more of an explanation to give him, except that Im satisfied it 
was a genuine error from Phoenix and wasnt a fair or accurate representation of the actual 
value of the plan at that time. 
I also note the plan was invested  in a With-Profits fund. Such funds usually grow by the 
addition of annual  and terminal bonuses and these are applied  using  a process of 
smoothing  which  is designed  to ensure a bonus  is allocated most years to offset  some  of 
the volatility of fluctuations  in the markets.  For that reason I think its extremely unlikely  
Mr Ws plan would have increased by £16,000  from December 2017 to February 2018 and 
then reduced by a similar  amount  by the time the transfer process began. I think its more  
likely that Phoenix simply incorrectly stated the estimated value in February  2018.  
And I can see the value  was estimated  at that time and not guaranteed, so I cant fairly say 
Phoenix should pay Mr W the higher valuation because the figure  was subject to change 
before it was actually  transferred. As the letter that Mr W received in December 2017 
explained Transfer  value- It is possible for the current transfer value of your plan to be paid 
into another registered pension scheme,  if the new scheme is willing to accept it. This is the 
amount we would  have  paid to another pension provider if you had decided to transfer the 
benefits. This figure is not guaranteed. 
Mr W and his adviser were provided with three  valuations before he started the transfer 
process  all of which were between £141,557 and £145,751. So I think Phoenix did make 
Mr W aware of the correct valuations before the transfer progressed.  And, although Mr Ws 
expectations were raised for a period in February  2018, I think  this error was corrected in 
future correspondence even if Mr W wasnt happy with Phoenixs  subsequent explanation. 
But Im satisfied the correct value  was paid. Phoenix  has confirmed its actuaries have 
subsequently rechecked the value and found it to be correct, so it wouldnt be fair for me to 
ask Phoenix to pay Mr W the February 2018  valuation as that would put Mr W in a better  
position than he would  be in now with the correct value being  transferred.
Its unfortunate that an error led Mr W to think his plan was valued at significantly more  than 
it actually was at one point, But I think theres sufficient evidence to show that was a genuine 
mistake and that a number of subsequent letters  Phoenix sent Mr W showed  valuations 
which were considerably closer to the actual final value. 
Ref: DRN07683264Compensation
Phoenix has paid £200 in total for the trouble and upset its errors caused Mr W. It explained 
it was prepared to pay £150 for the telephone calls Mr W had to make and the impact of 
raising his expectations through  the misleading  information. And an additional £50 for the 
delay in providing a final response  to Mr Ws complaint.
Ive considered this carefully and, while I acknowledge  the impact of those raised  
expectations, I think the payment is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Its broadly 
in line with what I would have awarded, so I dont think Phoenix needs to do anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint, in so much  as I think the £200  
compensation Phoenix Life Assurance Limited  has already paid is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Keith lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0768326