K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) allowed him to enter  into a repayment plan for 
both his credit card and overdraft without explaining the overdraft wouldnt be reinstated  or 
that a default would be applied to his credit file.
background
Mr D came to us as he was unhappy  with the response hed received from BOS on 18 
December 2018  after hed complained to them. BOS said Mr Ds accounts had been in 
collections since March 2018 and that was so account fees could  be suspended whilst Mr D 
repaid the outstanding balance whilst in financial difficulties. BOS said three  arrangements 
had been applied to the account since that point, however it was clear to them Mr Ds 
circumstances hadnt changed and he was in need  of long term assistance. BOS said on 
that basis the only option they had was to close the account and pass it to their recovery  
department. BOS said that would allow them to agree a long term repayment plan but would 
result in a default  being applied to Mr Ds credit file. So they didnt uphold his complaint. But 
they did pay him £50 for failing to make  it clear in one of the conversations  that the overdraft, 
if withdrawn, wouldnt  be re-instated. 
Our investigator thought at the current rate of repayment the account would take over two 
years to be repaid.  So he could see why BOS moved the account from collections  which  
help customers with short term difficulties   to recoveries as theyd decided  a longer term 
solution had to be found. And, whilst understanding Mr D was upset,  the investigator thought 
BOS were acting within the terms and conditions of the account which allowed it to seek  
repayment of the debt.  So he couldnt  say BOS were treating Mr D unfairly and didnt uphold 
the complaint.  
Mr D didnt agree. He re-iterated a number the points raised in his complaint. Mr D said he 
felt BOS treated  him in an extremely unfair manner and the situation that arose  was directly 
as a result  of their failing to provide him with adequate information to make  an informed 
decision. He also thought  theyd also acted without taking into account  all the relevant 
information. And that had resulted in an unfair  and disproportionate sanction  against him. He 
asked for his complaint to be passed  to an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not satisfied this is a 
complaint I can properly uphold. Ill explain why.
After the initial report  of financial difficulties on 29 March 2018 Mr Ds account current  and 
credit card accounts were  placed  on hold. I can see that when Mr D called bank after that on 
a number of occasions - 26 April, 16 July and 18 December 2018  he expressed that he 
didnt want a default for either on his credit  file. Thats understandable. But its also recorded 
in the notes staff told Mr D, in two of these calls, that it appeared it would  be a long term 
process to clear both the balances at the rates agreed. And that the bank could  only agree to 
a payment plan as set up here for up to 12 months.  So he knew  there was a limit on the time 
the account could remain in collections. And the alternative was a referral  to recoveries 
which Mr D declined as he wanted  to avoid defaults. 
Ref: DRN05982642Its to Mr Ds credit that he reported his difficulties to BOS and wants  to continue to repay his 
debts to them. Although I have  sympathy for the situation Mr Ds in  and can appreciate 
why he wants to avoid  a default  - Im afraid I dont think the bank have done  anything wrong 
here. The terms and conditions on Mr Ds account provide the overdraft is repayable  on 
demand and BOS can end or vary the overdraft at any time. 
With Mr Ds credit card the terms provide he must  make at least  the minimum payment each 
month and that missing payments could have severe consequences, such as legal action 
against you to recover your debt or negative feedback from us to credit reference agencies,  
which may make getting credit more difficult for you in future.  If you continue to miss 
payments, we may sell your debt and we or the purchaser may take legal action to recover  
money you owe us. So I cant say the bank hasnt acted within  the account terms. 
Ive also taken into account how BOS behaved once they were aware of Mr Ds financial 
difficulties. Overall wed expect them to be positive and sympathetic. And I think  they have 
been here. In addition  to agreeing to the short term repayment plans, as the second 
investigator has recently highlighted, BOS also continued to support Mr D when an agreed 
payment under the plan wasnt  received. In September 2018 BOS  wrote providing 
assistance. 
The banks decision in December  2018 to pass the account to recoveries for a longer term 
solution was a commercial decision and not one we can question.  I know  Mr D thinks it was 
wrong to take that decision without a further  assessment of his situation.  But I dont think  that 
wouldve made a difference  to the outcome  here.  If Mr Ds circumstances had changed for 
the better  he already knew from the letters BOS  sent each time arrangements  were made 
that he could contact them if his circumstances changed. And he had the option  to pay back  
more than was arranged if he could. But he didnt do that. So, I think  BOSs overall response 
to Mr Ds difficulties has been  reasonable and in line with their responsibilities. So Im not 
going to ask them to reinstate the overdraft or remove  the defaults or the accounts from 
recoveries. And in respect of the £50 compensation BOS have paid Mr D for the lack of 
clarity in one of the conversations I think thats  a reasonable response.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0598264