K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that a used car he got with finance  provided by Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited (trading  as Barclays Partner  Finance)  (BPF)  is of unsatisfactory  quality. 
A relative  helped Mr T to bring this complaint  but Ill refer to everything thats been said and 
done on Mr Ts behalf as if hed said or done  this himself, to keep things simple.   
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 30 June  2020. A copy of this decision is attached and forms part of my final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  what Id decided  about this complaint  and 
what I intended to do  subject to any further submissions from the parties.  I invited both 
parties to let me have any further information or comments by 30 July 2020. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have responded  and accepted  my provisional conclusions so I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision.  
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and I require Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited 
(trading as Barclays Partner Finance) to:-
1.take the car back at no cost to Mr T, cancel the CSA with nothing further owing and 
mark it as settled  on Mr Ts credit file;
2.refund  the £500 deposit;
3.refund  any monthly payments made after the breakdown from 23 June 2018  (when  
the car broke  down);
4.refund  the cost of the experts report - on proof of payment;
5.pay interest on the above  refunds  at 8% simple a year from the date of payment  to 
the date of settlement;
6.remove any adverse information  recorded  about this CSA on Mr Ts credit file, from 
23 June 2018;  and 
7.pay Mr T £150 for distress  and inconvenience.
If BPF considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold  income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr T how much its taken  off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08690502copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr T complains that a used  car he got with finance provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
(trading as Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF) is of unsatisfactory quality. 
A relative helped Mr T to bring  this complaint but Ill refer to everything thats been said and done on 
Mr Ts behalf as if hed said or done this himself,  to keep things simple.    
background
Mr T acquired this car with a conditional  sale agreement (CSA) from BPF in February  2017.  The car 
broke down  on 23 June 2018.  The recovery service told Mr T this was due to a problem within the 
coolant system - the agent  thought  a coolant hose might have leaked - and the car was taken to the 
nearest main dealership (for the relevant manufacturer). A technician  there thought  the problem  was a 
long standing  leak from the water pump. Mr T was told this wasnt  covered under warranty and the 
damage would cost around £5,000 to fix. 
The car was serviced not long before  the breakdown. There  was nothing wrong with the water pump 
at that stage so Mr T did some  research online. He found other  drivers had experienced similar  issues 
and he thought the engine in his car might have a manufacturing  defect. Mr T got in touch with the 
dealer that sold the car and he complained to BPF near the end of June 2018. BPF sent a final 
response about a month later. Based on the time Mr T had the car, BPF didnt think  it was likely the 
car had a fault present when  it was supplied. 
Mr T arranged  for an independent expert to inspect the car and provide a report  in August 2018. He 
observed the water  pump  had coolant residue around the bottom  of the unit - but considered  this was 
localised. He didnt think the water pump caused the breakdown. He said there was no residue  below 
- which would have be expected due to the amount of coolant  the engine holds and the amount that 
would have to leak before  it overheated. He checked all coolant hoses and found these were intact 
with no sign of leakage or damage present.  He noted coolant/water could be seen entering cylinders 
one and three  with the cooling system pressurised  and considered this a clear indication that the head 
gasket had failed and cylinder  head  damage had occurred.  He was aware that this sort of engine has 
a known  fault and suspected this caused the engine  failure in Mr Ts car. He suggested the cylinder  
head should be removed  and sent for testing ideally,  to confirm the exact cause. 
Mr T sent BPF a copy of the experts report and BPF responded on 23 August 2018. It didnt think  the 
report was sufficient to show that the car had a fault present at the point of supply  and referred  Mr T 
to the earlier final response. Mr T brought his complaint to this service and one of our investigators 
contacted BPF near the end of August 2018. BPF said (in summary):-
the cars MOT history  shows  it was in good condition  in January 2017 - just before it was 
supplied to Mr T - and it was still in good condition in April 2018, some  14 months after 
supply;
theres nothing in the experts report to confirm the existence of a fault that was present  or 
developing at the point  of supply;
Mr T provided information about other customers who had similar  issues but BPF could  only 
look at the facts  of his individual case; and 
it would review the matter again if Mr T provided further evidence. 
Our investigator recommends the complaint should  be upheld. She says Mr T had only driven the car 
4,467 miles after supply when it broke down. Shes satisfied the recovery service  thought  the 
breakdown was caused by a problem  in the coolant system. She notes the relevant manufacturer  
accepts some of its engines  were supplied with an inherent  manufacturing defect - which causes 
either a coolant hose  or the head gasket to crack over time as a result of overheating leading to 
engine failure. And shes satisfied the independent expert here considered  the head gasket in Mr Ts 
car probably failed due to an inherent  fault. 
Ref: DRN08690503On balance, she thinks  its more likely than not this car had an inherent manufacturing defect  meaning 
it wasnt durable enough. Shes satisfied it was probably  of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply 
and BPF is liable for that - under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). 
She accepts a supplier, like BPF, would  usually have one opportunity to repair in this situation (under 
the CRA) - provided  repairs dont take too long or cause the consumer undue inconvenience.  She 
acknowledges this car was repaired (at no cost to Mr T) by the manufacturer in October 2018. But, 
she thinks that was too late - as Mr T had already experienced significant  inconvenience and taken 
steps to finance a replacement vehicle  by that time. She says its fair that BPF should end the CSA, 
take the car back and refund the deposit along with any monthly payments made from June 2018, 
plus interest. She thinks BPF should also remove any adverse information  from Mr Ts credit file and 
pay him £150  for distress  and inconvenience
BPF didnt agree. It says (in summary) 
Mr T had the car for more than six months when the problem occurred  so it was for him to 
show a fault was present at the point of supply;
the manufacturer hadnt accepted there was an inherent issue with these  engines when Mr T 
complained to BPF in June 2018 and it was reasonable  for BPF to ask for evidence  that the 
car was faulty  when it was supplied;
this service should only consider whether  BPF dealt  fairly with Mr Ts complaint when  the final 
response was issued  - and BPF didnt know then that the manufacturer  would accept  
responsibility later and agree to repair  Mr Ts car;
BPF shouldnt  be held liable for not upholding  Mr Ts complaint when the information available 
did not show  the car had a manufacturing defect; 
Mr T didnt take the car back to the supplying  dealer for repairs so BPF had no way of 
keeping track  of what happened and Mr T accepted  the manufacturers offer to repair  without 
consulting BPF first;
BPF wasnt told about the manufacturers offer to repair and, if it had known  Mr T still wanted 
to reject the car at that time, it might have been able to facilitate  this - instead, BPF was 
deprived of the chance  to review  the complaint outcome; and 
Mr T has received  a reasonable remedy as the car was fixed  at no cost to him so it would be 
disproportionate to allow him to reject the car now. 
BPF acknowledged that Mr T was without the car for a time and he experienced significant 
inconvenience. It offered  to refund five monthly payments for the time the car was off the road from 
June to October 2018, plus interest, and pay him £150 compensation  for distress and inconvenience. 
Mr T didnt accept the offer. He said (in summary)
he bought a push bike to get around initially - while the car remained off the road at the main  
dealership - and he should have the cost of that refunded;
he needed transport for his family  by September 2018 - to carry out the school runs, amongst 
other things - and he had no option but to take out another finance agreement to fund a 
replacement car;
he was already committed  to the new finance agreement  by the time the manufacturer 
repaired the car - near the end of October 2018;
he made a statutory  off road notification (SORN) and didnt drive the car again after it was 
repaired. 
Mr T accepted  our investigators recommendations so BPF asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
matter. 
Ref: DRN08690504My provisional findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  
This service provides  informal dispute resolution but I must take account of the relevant law (amongst 
other things). Im satisfied that includes the CRA  here.  Its not my role to apply the law - only a court 
can do that. Instead, I make  my determination  based on what  I think is fair and reasonable - in all of 
the circumstances of this complaint. And, where  evidence  is incomplete (as some of it is here) I reach  
my decision  on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I consider what is most  likely to have 
happened, in the light of the available evidence  and the wider circumstances.
satisfactory quality
BPF supplied  this car to Mr T under a finance agreement and it was obliged to ensure  that the car 
was of satisfactory quality when Mr T got it - under  the CRA. The quality of goods includes things like 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects and safety  and durability. And 
goods are of satisfactory quality if they meet  the standard that a reasonable person would expect 
taking all of the relevant circumstances  into account - such  as the price paid and the age and mileage, 
in the case of a used car.
According to the CSA,  this car was over three years old, had about  21,000 miles on the
clock and cost around £12,000 when it was supplied. I think a reasonable  person  would accept  that a 
car of this age and mileage  wasnt  going  to meet the same  standards as a brand  new one - as some 
parts would be worn and need to be replaced sooner or later, which  is reflected in the lower price  paid 
for a used car. 
The CRA says (broadly speaking) when  a fault occurs within six month of supply its presumed  to 
have been there at the outset  - unless theres reason to think otherwise. Mr T had this car for about a 
year and a half when  it broke down  in June 2018. And BPF rejected his complaint (in a final response 
letter dated 30 July 2018) as it considered hed need  more evidence to show the car had a fault when  
it was supplied. I dont think it was unfair of BPF to ask Mr T for further evidence  at this stage. And I 
think it was reasonable of Mr T to get an independent expert to inspect the car - which he did about a 
week or so later. Im satisfied this expert is independent and seems to have relevant  qualifications. I 
think his report is relatively detailed  and it makes sense. And I consider it is fair and reasonable to 
give the experts opinion some weight here.
Im satisfied the expert concluded that the head gasket failed but (contrary to what  the main dealer 
told Mr T) the water pump  was not the cause. The expert goes on to say these engines  are known to 
suffer from cracks in the cylinder  head  due excessive  heat caused by the turbo,  I suspect this was the 
cause of failure. And I think its fairly clear that he considers the damage to Mr Ts engine  was 
probably caused  by an inherent  manufacturing fault.  
I accept the expert acknowledged he couldnt be certain - and suggested the cylinder  head should  be 
tested ideally, to confirm  his view. In my experience, thats not unusual  in an experts  report. Ive 
seen nothing  to make  me question this experts conclusions - theres  no suggestion that the 
breakdown was caused by any failure  to maintain the car, for example. I dont  think cars of this age 
and mileage usually need a new engine  as the result of wear and tear. And Im satisfied the experts  
findings seem  to be supported by the fact that the manufacturer went  on to pay for the relevant 
repairs. 
Ref: DRN08690505I acknowledge BPF didnt know the manufacturer would agree to repair in August 2018. But, Im not 
persuaded that Mr T had to prove  that the manufacturer accepted liability  in order to show that the car 
BPF supplied  was of unsatisfactory  quality  when he got it. I think it was sufficient for Mr T to provide 
evidence that it was likely  this car was defective at the point  of supply.  And, on balance,  Im satisfied 
the experts report he supplied to BPF does that. If BPF had reason  to doubt the experts conclusions, 
I think  it would have been reasonable to explain  why. Instead, as far as I can see, BPF didnt accept  
the report  on the grounds  it was mere opinion. I dont  think that was fair, in this situation.  Financial  
businesses are required  to investigate complaints competently, diligently and impartially - and obtain 
additional information as necessary. Im satisfied the experts report - at the very least  - put BPF on 
notice, in August 2018, that the engine in Mr Ts car probably had a manufacturing  issue.  
I think  BPF had number of options then - none of which  would have been unreasonable  or 
disproportionate. If BPF had doubts about whether the expert considered the car was likely  faulty at 
the point of supply, it could (for example) have suggested Mr T (who  I suspect has little if any 
experience of instructing  experts  to provide this sort of report)  should ask the expert to address this 
point specifically.  Alternatively, BPF could  have  arranged  for the cylinder  head to be removed and 
tested, as the expert suggested. Or, if BPF had concerns about what the main  dealer saw when it 
checked the car, it could have contacted that dealer (whose details are set out in the experts  report) 
for more  information. It was also open to BPF to approach the manufacturer about the known issue 
the expert mentioned  and query why the repairs to Mr Ts car werent covered under warranty.  And 
BPF could always have  appointed  another expert to look at the car and provide a second  opinion, if it 
wanted to. 
Instead (according  to BPFs customer contact notes on 23 August 2018), BPF told Mr T that it didnt 
accept the evidence he provided and it would wait for our service to investigate. I can see why BPF 
may have been content to do that. But, this left Mr T - whod already gone to the time,  trouble and 
expense of obtaining expert evidence in support of his complaint as BPF had requested - to continue  
to pay for a car he couldnt  drive with no idea how long it might take to resolve things via this service. 
From the reasons Ive explained above, in light of the expert evidence  in particular, I am satisfied this 
car probably had a manufacturing defect meaning  it was of unsatisfactory quality  when it was supplied  
to Mr T. And, given BPF didnt have (or seek) any evidence to counter the experts view,  I think  it 
would have been reasonable for BPF to recognise  that in August 2018.  
putting things right
The CRA says (broadly speaking) a supplier should have one chance to repair faulty goods in this 
situation. And, if BPF had accepted liability  in August  2018, I think that might  well have amounted to a 
fair outcome  here. But, the CRA also makes it clear  that the appropriate remedy depends  on 
circumstances - and the right to repair may be lost if repairs would take too long or cause too much  
inconvenience for the consumer. 
I understand Mr T was due to go overseas  not long after BPF rejected his complaint - as his job takes 
him away for relatively long tours. Im satisfied hed been told (by the main dealer) that the 
manufacturer wouldnt  cover the repairs. Mr T has also explained that he was concerned about  how 
long his family might  be without transport - as he couldnt afford to pay to have the work done himself. 
I think  its understandable he took steps to get a replacement vehicle and Im satisfied  Mr T took out 
another finance agreement in September 2018.  I cant  fairly say that decision  was unreasonable - in 
these particular  circumstances. 
I accept this car was repaired  in October 2018. BPF says it was deprived of the opportunity  to review 
the complaint at this stage  - as Mr T didnt contact BPF before this happened. But, Ive seen nothing  
to show  that Mr T agreed to the repairs. And, in any event, I think  BPFs unlikely to have refused the 
manufacturers offer - even  if it had been  consulted  at the relevant time. 
Ref: DRN08690506Taking everything into account, Im minded to agree with our investigator that the repairs were 
completed too late for Mr T - as hed already taken out additional finance for a replacement car and 
(as I think BPF accepts)  been caused significant inconvenience by this time. It follows, Im minded to 
find it is reasonable  for BPF to take the car back now and end the finance agreement  with nothing 
further owing. I think BPF should  also refund any deposit Mr T paid at the outset. The CSA records 
that a £500 deposit  was paid. I intend to require BPF to refund this amount - unless the parties  
provide evidence  to the contrary  in response to this provisional decision.  
Mr T says he didnt drive  the car after it was repaired. Ive checked information  available on the 
relevant government website and this says the car was SORN at the relevant time. Im satisfied, on 
balance, that Mr T probably didnt use the car after it was repaired. And Im inclined to find it fair that 
BPF should refund  any monthly  payments  made  from the date of the breakdown  in June 2018 in full, 
plus interest, in the circumstances.
Mr T has supplied some evidence about  the cost of the push  bike. I realise this is frustrating for Mr T 
but Im not persuaded  it would be fair to require  BPF to refund this cost in addition  to the refund of 
monthly payments referred to above. Mr T would  not have needed to pay for the experts report if he 
hadnt been supplied  with this faulty car so I think  it is reasonable for BPF to refund the cost of that 
was well - subject to Mr T providing proof of payment.  
I think  it is likely that Mr T was put to some  distress and inconvenience as a result of being supplied 
with this faulty  car. Amongst other things he had to arrange an experts  inspection and contact BPF, 
the main dealer and the manufacturer  a number  of times - and he was left without a car for several 
months. I am minded to find BPF should pay Mr T £150 compensation in recognition of that. In the 
event that BPF recorded  any adverse  information on Mr Ts credit file after the engine  failed in June 
2018, I think  it is fair this should be removed.
I invite the parties to consider my provisional  findings and let me have any further comments or 
information by the date below. Ill look at all of the evidence available after that and make my final 
decision.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions that I may receive from the parties  by 30 July 2020,  my provisional 
decision is I intend to uphold this complaint and require Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited  
(trading as Barclays Partner Finance) to:-
1take the car back at no cost to Mr T, cancel  the CSA with nothing further owing and mark  it as 
settled on Mr Ts credit  file;
2refund the £500 deposit;
3refund any monthly payments made  after the breakdown from 23 June 2018 (when the car 
broke down);
4refund the cost of the experts report - on proof of payment;
5pay interest on the above refunds  at 8% simple a year from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement;
6remove any adverse  information recorded about this CSA on Mr Ts credit file, from 23 June 
2018; and 
7pay Mr T £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN0869050