K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs S hold with Kensington Mortgage Company 
Limited. Theyre unhappy that it was granted without an accurate verification of their income 
and for a term that means  they still have to pay it now that theyve  retired and their income 
has fallen.
background
Mr and Mrs S already had a mortgage on their home when, in late 2003,  they met with a 
mortgage consultant who visited them at home. The consultant worked  for an intermediary 
business called The Mortgage Lender Limited. The consultant arranged  a re-mortgage with 
additional borrowing  to consolidate some debt and provide around £20,000 of cash.  
The business that actually provided  the mortgage  was Kensington Mortgage Company 
Limited, using a trading name  of The Mortgage Lender. That trading name was dropped 
soon after the mortgage completed  in 2004,  since when the mortgage  has simply been 
branded Kensington. 
Nonetheless, the near-identical  names (at the time) of the intermediary that arranged the 
mortgage and the lender that provided it have caused a great deal of confusion. To avoid the 
confusion continuing  here, where  I refer to The Mortgage Lender Limited,  Im talking  about  
the intermediary that arranged  the mortgage (and which ceased trading altogether in 2011). 
Where I refer to Kensington, Im talking about  the lender  that provided the mortgage, and 
against which this complaint had been  made.
Mr and Mrs S complained in 2019.  Theyd  reached  retirement age, and their income had 
fallen, but they still had the mortgage  and were finding it a struggle to meet  the payments. 
They thought the mortgage had been  inappropriate for them, on two grounds;  firstly, the term 
ran beyond their retirement ages  and secondly, it had been approved on a self-certification 
basis. Thats  where a lender  accepts on trust what the applicant has declared their income  to 
be without verifying it independently.
Our investigator didnt  think Kensington had done anything wrong in agreeing to lend on the 
basis of the application received. He explained  that if Mr and Mrs S wanted to complain 
separately about the actions of The Mortgage  Lender Limited,  theyd need to contact the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Mr and Mrs S have  asked that their complaint be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Before I address the merits of the 
complaint, Ill make  some general observations. 
As I said earlier,  this complaint has been  brought against Kensington, so I can only consider  
it in terms of how Kensington behaved as a lender.  I cant  consider how The Mortgage  
Lender Limited behaved as an intermediary, because it was a separate entity from 
Kensington. Id endorse the investigators  observation that if they wished  to pursue that, Mr 
and Mrs S would  need to contact the FSCS, the body  that deals with complaints about 
defunct businesses.  In saying that, Im making no recommendation  either  way on whether 
Ref: DRN05134372Mr and Mrs S should complain to the FSCS or what possible  outcome  might result from 
them doing  so. 
Getting back to the complaint against Kensington as lender, Ive kept in mind that this 
mortgage was granted  before the introduction of mortgage regulation in October 2004. 
Kensington still had a duty to treat Mr and Mrs S fairly and lend responsibly. But in assessing  
whether and to what extent it discharged  those  duties, I have to apply the standards  of good 
practice that existed then,  not those that exist today. When  I do that, Im afraid I have to 
disappoint Mr and Mrs S, as I dont think Kensington did anything  wrong  either.
On the question of the mortgage term, it was up to Mr and Mrs S to decide if the proposed  
mortgage term was suitable for their needs  and circumstances.  Mr and Mrs S would have 
been better placed than Kensington, even in 2004,  to assess their ability  to pay the 
mortgage in retirement.  As lender, it was reasonably entitled to assume, theyd made  such 
an assessment and were  comfortable with the proposed term.
As far as verification  of income is concerned, self-certification is rarely seen today, but it 
wasnt uncommon at the time this mortgage  was taken out. Lenders could, and sometime  
did, accept what applicants told them about  their income of face value. In essence, lenders 
would assume applicants were telling the truth. 
Mr and Mrs S have  told us their incomes were over-stated on the application form. Thats  not 
helpful to their argument. They signed the application form to declare that the information  it 
contained, including what had been put about their incomes, was the truth. What theyre now 
saying, in effect, is that they lied on their application  to get the mortgage.  I cant  hold 
Kensington to blame for that.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against Kensington Mortgage Company Limited. My 
final decision  concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0513437