K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2000 
alongside a store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr C says FICL mis-sold  him the PPI. Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  this complaint. Mr C 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr C says the PPI was not optional and it was added without his knowledge  or consent. 
But Ive seen a copy of the store card application  form Mr C saw and signed  which  
included a section  for PPI. In this section Mr C signed to agree to the cover. This 
signature is separate and additional  to his signature  to agree to the credit.  And there is 
nothing here to indicate that he had to sign in this section  so I think  Mr C wouldve 
known he couldve left this section blank if he didnt  want the PPI.
So based  on what Ive seen I think FICL  made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if the policy was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr C got the information  he needed to decide  if the 
PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover.
Mr C says he had some  sick pay and savings which he couldve used to make  his 
repayments had he been suddenly unable to work.  However, for no more than £1.00 per 
£100 of the outstanding monthly balance the PPI wouldve  paid out up to 15% of Mr Cs 
outstanding monthly balance,  until he returned  to work or the outstanding balance  had 
been paid off. This wouldve paid out in addition  to the PPI and for longer than Mr Cs full 
sick pay wouldve lasted him. So overall I still think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr C 
and I dont think better information about  the cost and benefit  of the policy  wouldve 
changed his decision  to take out the cover. 
Ref: DRN06636712My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0663671