K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that SLL Capital Limited  lent to him irresponsibly.  
Mr F also complains  that SLL Capital chased  him for outstanding debts in such a manner 
that it amounted  to harassment. 
background
My detailed provisional decision was issued to both parties on 4 June 2020. A copy  of it is 
attached to this final decision and forms part of it for the reasoning  of how and why I came  to 
the provisional decision I did in June 2020. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments on what  I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  short-term  lending - including  all the relevant rules,  guidance  
and good industry  practice - on our website. 
Both Mr F and SLL Capital were given until 13 July 2020  to reply. I have not received 
anything from SLL Capital. I heard from Mr F recently and his main  concern is the approach  
SLL Capital  took to pursuing him for the debt on Loan 4. Mr F has not said anything  further  
about the loans.
In respect of the four loans, and in the absence of any further arguments or evidence, I see 
no reason why I need to alter my findings made in that provisional decision, so:
I am proceeding  on the basis that Mr F had four loans and these are in the Loan 
Table set out in my provisional decision;
In the absence of details  about the individual  loan agreements  as SLL Capital  has 
not provided the terms, or any copy agreements, then I think  that these look like 
payday loans;  
SLL Capital has said that it carried out full credit checks and despite asking for a full 
business file in the past we have not received any of those credit  search  results.  SLL 
Capital has relied on those results to defend  the complaint and yet we have no 
records to review.  
So, I have decided to use information that we already have about Mr F, and it is one of his 
main points in his complaint that he had a lot of debt at the time he took these loans  with 
SLL Capital.  I refer to the provisional  decision for all the details. 
With Mr Fs income,  declared expenditure for everyday living,  plus the STL credit 
commitments I have  set out in my provisional  decision, then it seems to me that he was not 
likely able to afford the SLL Capital loans. Mr F has lost out as he had to pay high interest on 
these loans from the beginning. He was not able to repay the SLL Capital  loans sustainably.
I uphold his complaint  in relation to each of the four loans. 
Ref: DRN02751622On that part of Mr Fs complaint relating to the way he says SLL Capital chased the debt 
from 2012 to 2016,  I have  read again  the explanations Mr F has sent to me. Mr F clearly  has 
been very upset  by what he says took place  in pursuing the debt on Loan  4. He has 
explained again that it got to the stage where court  proceedings were issued and a 
compromise was agreed to at the doors of the court. He says bringing proceedings was an 
intimidation tool. SLL Capital says that as a firm it could take reasonable steps  to chase 
down a debt and, if needed, resort  to court proceedings.
I understand that Mr F has been upset. Mr F will have seen from my provisional decision that 
I asked SLL Capital for more information  on everything and we have received nothing. And 
I also asked Mr F for more than explanations   but actual evidence  about the manner of the 
debt pursuit and what he has said have been  intimidation tactics. I do not have  enough to 
properly determine  this point. And the Protection from Harassment Act 1997, which Mr F 
cites again, is an area of law which is outside the remit of this service as it involves criminal 
allegations and some civil remedies which may be available.  Mr F will need to obtain  
independent legal advice on these matters.  Our role is to resolve, informally  and impartially,  
financial complaints.   
I empathise with Mr F as I think that being in debt and being chased  for debts can be very 
worrying. But more needed to have been sent to me by both parties for me to assess  this 
part fairly. I have not received it. 
So, I do not uphold  this part of Mr Fs complaint. 
putting things right 
Based on my decision to uphold Loans  1 to 4, then SLL Capital needs to put things right as 
I have outlined here: 
refund  any interest and charges  already  paid by Mr F in respect of Loans  1 to 4;      
apply 8% simple interest  per year to any interest  and charges refunded from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Ordinarily, Id direct that SLL Capital removes any adverse payment information 
about the loans from Mr Fs credit  file. But as Loans 1 to 3 were  repaid more than six 
years ago then this becomes irrelevant. As for Loan 4, SLL Capital must remove  any 
adverse payment information about  Loan 4 from Mr Fs personal credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SLL Capital Limited to take off tax from this interest and it 
must give Mr F a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part and direct that SLL Capital Limited 
does as I have  outlined above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2020.
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN02751623the provisional decision appears on the next pages.
Ref: DRN02751624my provisional decision dated 4 June 2020
Using information sent to us by SLL Capital here is a brief Loan Table. Mr F was adamant  that these  
loans dated back many years. The four loans  that have been identified  are set out here. This 
provisional decision  relates  to these four only. 
Loan Start DateLoan issued
End date Total repaid InterestStatus
1 27/09/2012 £285.00 31/10/2012 £402.00 £117.00 Repaid
2 15/11/2012 £285.00 30/11/2012 £345.00 £60.00 Repaid
3 30/11/2012 £285.00 27/12/2012 £381.00 £96.00 Repaid
4 31/12/2012 £285.00 28/10/2016 £330.00 £45.00 Repaid
Mr F complained to SLL Capital on 11 October 2018. SLL Capital sent to Mr F its final response letter 
(FRL) to his complaint in November 2018. It said that it would only consider the loans that did not fall 
outside of the 6-year time limit. There likely were loans  earlier than six years  before Mr Fs complaint  
date, but SLL Capital sent no more  details of any earlier  than September 2012.   
From January 2013 repayment plans were in place and around  August 2014 one arrangement 
through the court  to clear the debt on Loan 4. The details  of this set of court proceedings are not clear  
and neither party  can send  more information  about it. Mr F had repaid the last loan by April 2016. 
Mr F has consistently  expressed concern that he had more loans than these four and he has received 
explanations about that. SLL Capital said that it used to trade  as Safeloans but ceased lending in May 
2015. It has explained that various  records systems have changed since 2010 and some records 
have been archived and/or  deleted. In its FRL, SLL Capital explained  that it had offered to rebuild Mr 
Fs loans history  and had asked that you provide  us with bank statements  prior 2012 showing any 
loans and loan repayments  relevant to Safeloans. We did not receive the requested information.
Mr F brought  his complaint to us soon after receiving the FRL.  SLL Capital  has not sent us much 
more about these four loans and no other details about any earlier  loans. Mr F has been asked on 
several occasions  to demonstrate  through his own records that he had more loans than the four set 
out in the FRL and here. And Mr F has been  asked  for additional  evidence to show us details about  
the way that SLL Capital  chased him for his debts. We have received nothing  about  the earlier loans 
and in relation to the SLL Capital  behaviour we have received some copy  emails from SLL Capital 
and some explanations from Mr F. He has been upset about  it.  
One of our adjudicators  did not think  that SLL Capital had acted  irresponsibly by lending these four 
loans to Mr F. And she did not have enough evidence to uphold that part of his complaint relating  to 
alleged harassment.  
Mr F disagreed and said that a personal  credit  file from him now would  not cover  the time period to 
show earlier SLL Capital loans. And he has already given  to us evidence of other loans with other 
short-term lending companies held at about the same time as the SLL Capital loans. He referred  to 
email correspondence between him and SLL Capital  and gave  many explanations about the way he 
says SLL Capital had treated him. 
Our adjudicator sent a second view with no change in outcome. Mr F asked  for the complaint  to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
 
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to come to a provisional  decision on what  
I consider to be fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint.  We have set out our 
general approach to complaints about short-term lending  - including all the relevant  rules, guidance 
and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN02751625SLL Capital  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr F could repay  the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that SLL Capital  should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:  where  a 
customers income is particularly low; where  the repayments  are particularly high; and/or where the 
frequency of the loans  and the length of time over which a customer has been given loans need to be 
looked at: repeated  refinancing could signal  that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, 
unsustainable.
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
SLL Capital  was required  to establish whether Mr F could sustainably  repay  his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible  Lending  Guide defined  sustainable as being the 
ability to repay  without  undue difficulties. In particular the customer  should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
will not be able to make their repayments sustainably  if they need to borrow further in order to do that.
I have carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
my provisional  decision
In the absence  of additional information from either party I am proceeding on the basis that Mr F had 
four loans with SLL Capital  and they are the ones in the Loan Table  above. 
SLL Capital  has explained that a customers  loan application included asking about their regular credit 
commitments and included an option to select further  expenses from a drop-down menu: It was down 
to the customer to select and complete the information according to their monthly  expenses.  
The information from SLL Capital shows me that when applying for Loan 1, Mr F declared to SLL 
Capital that he earned £1,358 and had regular financial outgoings  of £495. These were  broken down 
into food and clothing: £80; leisure and entertainment: £50; mobile  phone: £15 and rent as £350. 
For Loan  2 he declared that his income was the same and his outgoings were £465. The difference  in 
the expenditure figure being  a bit more for food and less for leisure activities. For Loans 3 and 4 he 
declared an income of £1,360 with outgoings of £525. The difference  in the expenditure  figure being 
more for food and for leisure activities. 
In the absence  of details about the individual loan agreements as SLL Capital has not provided the 
terms, or any copy agreements, then I think that these look like payday loans. 
For Loan  1, it would  have  been proportionate for SLL Capital to have  relied on the income and 
expenditure information provided  by Mr F. So, on a declared monthly  income of £1,358, expenditure 
of £495 the repayment of £402 would have appeared manageable by Mr F. Using the information 
I have outlined above, then on the face of it, Mr F appeared  able to afford  these  loans. 
Ref: DRN02751626However, Mr F has consistently said that he had a lot of other debt at the time he applied to SLL 
Capital. So, I have thought  about this carefully. He has been consistent  with his points. 
SLL Capital  has said that it carried out full credit checks and despite asking for a full business  file in 
the past we have not received any of those credit search results. SLL Capital has relied  on those  
results to defend the complaint and yet we have no records to review.  So, I have decided to use 
information that we already have about Mr F, and it is one of his main points in his complaint that he 
had a lot of debt at the time he took these with SLL Capital. 
I have seen that he did have  a number of other short-term loans  (STL) at the time he applied for the 
loans with SLL Capital. Here is a brief table showing the outstanding  loans Mr F had at the time he 
applied for Loans 1 to 4. This table  is not necessarily  complete and has been created to demonstrate  
the general  overall picture I have seen, and it has not been created  for accuracy. 
Lender Loan open Other information
Lender P £100 taken 13 Sept 2012 repaid 10 Oct 2012
£240 taken 11 Oct 2012 repaid 25 Oct 2012
£100 taken 4 Nov 2012 repaid 28 Nov 2012. 
£290 taken 29 Nov 2012 repaid 26 December  2012 14 loans 23 January 
2012 to 3 September  
2014
Lender M £350 taken 12 December 2012 Still o/s in late 2018
Lender Q Loan taken 29 Sept 2012 £300, rolled  twice and a new 
loan 30 Nov 2012 £280 repaid 21 Dec 2012. 
Loan taken £350 on 21 Dec 2012 Still o/s late 2018
Lender LS From 30 August 2012 to 4 December 2012 took loans 
ranging from £65 to £485August 2012  £425 
loan open when 
applied Loan 1
Lender C £650 taken 30 August  2012  and repaid 
25 October 2012.
£650 taken 29 Oct 2012 25 loans November 
2009 to October 
2012
Oct 2012 loan still 
o/s in late 2018.  
Lender J From 13 September 2012  to 19 December 2012 took 
8 loans  ranging  from £200  to £500 19 loans January  
2012 to December 
2012
Lender PE Loan taken £480 1 Sept 2012 and rolled twice  in late 
Sept and late Oct 2012. 
I think  that Mr F had five, possibly six, other STL outstanding  at the time he applied for Loan 1 with 
SLL Capital.  And it seems  that Mr F was consistently applying for and repaying (or rolling  over) 
several loans all at the same time from several different  lenders for the whole  of the period from late 
August 2012  to December 2012. 
In the circumstances,  I think it is highly likely that the credit checks  SLL Capital carried  out would  have 
revealed some,  even if not all, of these loans.  And in the circumstances, I plan to uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. And I do so on the basis that with Mr Fs income, declared expenditure  for everyday living, 
plus these STL credit commitments, then it seems to me that he was not likely able to afford the SLL 
Capital loans.  Mr F has lost out as he had to pay high interest on these  loans from the beginning. He 
was not able to repay the SLL Capital  loans sustainably.
If SLL Capital can furnish me with additional information about the records it has for these credit  
searches, then I may review  my provisional  decision.  Otherwise I plan to uphold each  loan. 
Ref: DRN02751627the complaint  points about  the way SLL Capital chased the debt from  2012  to 2016.  
Here I have conflicting explanations and no records from around January 2013  to August 2014 and 
beyond. Mr F says the SLL Capital approach  and treatment amounted to harassment and was 
extreme. SLL Capital says that as a firm it could  take reasonable steps to chase down a debt and, if 
needed, resort to court  proceedings. 
So, I do not have enough to properly determine this part of the complaint. I empathise with Mr F as I 
think that being in debt and being chased for debts can be very worrying. But for me to come to any 
conclusions about the manner of that debt pursuit then, more needs to be sent to me by both parties 
for me to assess this part fairly. 
 
SLL Capitals records 
In its FRL SLL Capital only sent details of loans  since September 2012 as Mr F had made  his 
complaint in November 2018. SLL Capital had interpreted the ombudsman  service  time limits  rules to 
mean that it cannot look at anything further than six years before the complaint date (October 2018) 
and so it started its list of loans in September 2012. 
It is for the ombudsman service to determine the jurisdiction over a complaint and so it is contrary to 
the rules surrounding its handling of complaints simply  to not deal with anything earlier than six years 
before the complaint date. As this is not a jurisdiction decision than I do not go into these rules  further,  
but I do use this provisional decision to ask SLL Capital to either  send me more  about  the earlier 
loans or to answer some  of the questions posed  below. I think that archived records could have been 
 and still can be  accessed in order  to fully investigate once the complaint had been received by Mr 
F. I also note that Mr F did not fully repay until April 2016 and he had complained to it within two and 
half years  of him repaying the debts. So, I think  even  if Mr Fs records had been archived  between 
April 2016 and October  2018, it is highly  unlikely  that that they would have been deleted so soon after 
the final repayment date.  
I have resorted to dealing with this in a provisional  decision because little headway has been  made 
when ordinary  requests have been made. My concerns and questions are:
We asked  about the court hearing and/or court settlement from August 2014. It is relevant for 
several reasons and relates to Loan 4. SLL Capital  was not able either to provide  a copy of 
that court  judgment  or court settlement  terms/Consent Order. Yet, SLL Capital has been able 
to provide some details surrounding the net effect  of what happened  in August 2014.  It says 
that Mr F has  benefited from an interest free loan  So, please  clarify exactly  what  
occurred by either finding or tracking down a copy of the Judgement  (if made), or a copy of 
the Consent Order (if made), or some account notes. I ask that they are sent to me.
In relation to Loan 4, I have information  from SLL Capital, being the email correspondence 
between it and Mr F in November 2018 that in June 2013 the outstanding balance on Loan 4 
was £649.50, and it looks like a letter before action  was sent to him. The information SLL 
Capital provided in the FRL and in email explanations  is that he paid £45 interest in total on 
Loan 4 which came  to £330. There  is a large discrepancy  here and I need to be clear  on 
exactly what has been  paid for the purposes of the redress directions I give. So, I will need 
the statements of account  for this and the other loans. 
SLL Capital has said  linked  with above  that Mr F has had the equivalent of an interest free 
loan. It seems to have referred to the last loan for which Mr F paid £10 a week until the debt 
was cleared in April 2016. So, SLL Capital does appear to have had some records from which 
it has gathered the information to be able to explain this to us. So, I need to see the statement  
of account for this loan and the other loans and I ask that these  records are sent.  
Ref: DRN02751628I am still unclear  as to what type of loans these were. It is usual  when asked by us for a 
respondent firm to give a full business file, including details  of the loan terms and copy 
agreements or even  example agreements. So, I request that we receive  these, alternatively  a 
detailed summary of the type of loans  approved, more  details on the usual application 
process and other  details surrounding its creditworthiness assessment for each loan.  
In its FRL SLL Capital referred to the fact that it did carry out full credit checks. It said to Mr F: 
Based on the information  that you supplied  at the time combined with a credit check  we were  
reasonably satisfied with our lending  decision.
When asked for more details it was able to send us some  information  about  his income and 
expenditure declared by Mr F in his applications but also told us that We do not have data on Mr Fs 
loans that were issued and settled in 2012.  There is no other  customer  data. I think  that if it can 
provide income and expenditure details  from the applications in 2012 and onwards then I think its 
likely it also has details of other  matters  surrounding these four loans at least. 
It relies on the fact that it carried out full credit checks as part of its submissions to defend this 
complaint and so I would  like to see the records to demonstrate what it found  when it carried out 
those checks. Failing which I will rely on other information which I refer to in the main part of my 
provisional decision.
For that part of the complaint relating to how it approached the debt with Mr F, SLL Capital  
has explained that records may have been archived  and/or deleted. Anything  archived is 
accessible and so Id ask again that it sends all the records it has for Mr F for these loans and 
any earlier  ones,  together with the items I have raised above.  I think  that more is available as 
the email from SLL Capital to Mr F dated 8 November 2018  refers  to having  reviewed your 
account history to establish if there was a shortcoming in the service  you have received.  
There follows  a list of detailed points  which seem to have come from account notes. So, if 
these were available then, I think  its likely  that they are available now. 
Please send these to me.
 
Mr Fs records
I appreciate that Mr F has been asked many times to assist in providing  details so that his loan picture 
pre-2012 can be established, or, discounted, depending on the information  available. I appreciate  that 
Mr F feels frustrated that SLL Capital has not sent records  from before September  2012. But leaving 
that to one side, if Mr F can produce what he can to establish  loan credits,  loan repayments, any 
correspondence etc then I invite him to do that within  the time deadlines for this provisional decision.  
Additional time has been given to Mr F in the past.
End of provisional decision 
Ref: DRN0275162