K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC gave him unsuitable advice to invest  in a stakeholder  
pension (SHP). He says that if he had been  sufficiently informed by Lloyds of other options 
he wouldve taken out added years through his occupational pension. He wants  to be 
compensated for his loss.
background
In 2003 a Lloyds Bank  adviser  recommended that Mr D take out and make a lump  sum 
contribution of £1,100, and monthly contributions  of £100, to a SHP.
The fact find completed  at the time showed that Mr D:
Was 40 years old.
Was Single with no children.
Worked full time for 18 and a half years  in the same employment.
Planned to retire  at 65.
Was a member of a defined benefit pension occupational pension scheme.
Had a salary of £22,000  with a net income  of £1,700 a month and total expenditure 
per month of £800.
Had a low attitude to risk.
The Personal Summary  and Recommendations document  completed  the same  day as the 
fact find indicated that the adviser  had offered Mr D the opportunity  to investigate making 
further pension  planning via his in-house added years scheme  that would link his pension 
benefits directly to his salary. That same day Mr D signed the Personal Summary, indicating  
that the information hed given was an accurate reflection of his personal  circumstances,  and 
that hed had the recommended products risks and characteristics explained  to him. He 
completed the application for the SHP the same  day. 
Mr D continued making the monthly  contribution for the SHP until November 2005, and then 
ceased contributions  until 2013  when he began monthly contributions at the lower amount of 
£50. This was shortly  after hed taken early retirement from the same employment, due to 
injury. 
In 2016 Mr D moved his SHP to a SIPP with a different provider.
In November 2018 Mr D, through  his representative, complained  that hed received 
unsuitable advice  to purchase  the SHP. His representative said that:
Mr D, as a member  of an occupational pension scheme was eligible to buy, and 
could afford,  added years additional  voluntary contributions (AVC).
The Lloyds adviser was required by Regulatory Update 20 (RU 20) to have informed 
Mr D of the fact that AVCs were available, recommend considering the AVC and 
point out that AVCs  were likely to provide better  value for money.
The reference in the Personal Summary to having given Mr D the opportunity to 
make his own investigations wasnt sufficient to satisfy RU 20  the adviser  shouldve  
researched the added  years and recommended it if it was better.
The Fact Find, Personal Summary, and application were all dated the same day 
which means Mr D had no time to do any investigations into his workplace  options
The added years AVC wouldve matched  Mr Ds attitude to risk.
Mr D wouldve purchased added  years if hed received suitable advice.
Ref: DRN04159082In its response to his complaint, Lloyds said that purchasing added  years mayve been an 
expensive option  and may not have been  possible if Mr D intended to remain with the same 
employer until retirement age. It also said that the Lloyds adviser gave Mr D the opportunity 
to consider the benefits provided  by his occupational pension scheme by way of purchasing  
added years and that while Mr D chose to proceed immediately with the recommendation he 
wasnt obliged to do so. In relation to the SHP itself, Mr D had signed to say hed received, 
read and understood all the documents associated with the recommendation and the 
product. Hed been given  information concerning cancellation and couldve done  this if he 
wished after reviewing  the paperwork and considering in-house alternatives.  
Mr Ds representative brought his complaint  to our service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think  the Lloyds adviser fully satisfied 
the requirements of RU 20, but Lloyds  records did suggest that Mr D was made  aware that 
alternatives existed. And he thought it was unlikely  that Mr D wouldve been able to 
purchase added years service because  if hed worked as expected  to age 65, he wouldve 
achieved the maximum service of 40 years. Finally,  our adjudicator  didnt think that 
contributing to a SHP was unreasonable as the product had low charges and flexibility over 
contributions, a feature Mr D used. 
The complaint then came to me for a decision from an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
the complaint  for much the same reasons as our adjudicator. 
In order to decide the complaint, some  of the key things I need to consider are:
(a)Whether the Lloyds  adviser complied with the applicable regulatory guidance in place 
at the time of the advice,
(b)If he didnt, what difference did that make, and in particular, could Mr D have 
purchased added years  in his occupational  pension,  and whether I think  its likely he 
wouldve.
(c)If I thought it was unlikely he wouldve purchased added years, was the advice to 
invest in a SHP suitable?
The advice was provided by a Lloyds  adviser  in 2003. So I agree that the relevant regulatory 
guidance was contained in RU 20, which was produced by the Personal Investment 
Authority, one of the predecessors  to the current regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. 
From what  I can tell from the Lloyds records, the adviser didnt do enough to comply  with RU 
20. The update set out that:
A representative should not recommend his own companys FSAVC until he has:
- drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative;
- discussed  the differences  between  the two routes in generic terms (taking account,
among other things,  of the features described in this article); and
- directed  the client  to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more information  on the 
in-scheme option.
When these procedures are followed and documented, it is not necessary for the
Ref: DRN04159083representative to undertake  a full comparison of the in-scheme  AVC and his companys 
FSAVC. 
The Personal Summary  and Recommendations document  records:
I have given you the opportunity to investigate making further pension planning via your in-
house Added Years Scheme which will link your pension benefits  directly to your salary
Whilst this is evidence  that added years were at least mentioned, it isnt good  evidence that 
the adviser satisfied  the requirement  to discuss the difference  between  a SHP and added  
years in generic  terms, having regard to the features in the guidance. 
 
I cant be sure what was discussed at the meeting, but I wouldve expected the Lloyds 
adviser to mention the guaranteed  nature  of added years in that there  wasnt an investment 
risk, and that there were likely to be no or at most, low, charges. I would expect that to be 
reflected in the Personal Summary and Recommendations  document. 
But I dont agree with Mr Ds representative  that the Lloyds adviser  shouldve  researched 
added years and recommended it if it was better. The Lloyds adviser wasnt an independent  
financial adviser, so couldnt  do this, and RU 20 didnt  require  it for tied advisers.
Mr Ds representative stresses that the application for the SHP was completed the same day 
as the Personal Summary  and Recommendations so Mr D wasnt  given a real opportunity  to 
make enquiries. I cant be sure what was discussed at the meeting and to what extent his 
other options were  discussed. But Im not persuaded that if Mr D had been given some more  
information in writing about  added years by the adviser, he wouldve made enquiries with his 
employer. 
Even if I was persuaded that Mr D wouldve investigated buying added  years with his 
employer, if hed been given more information  by the adviser,  Im not persuaded that its 
more likely that not that he wouldve  purchased such years. 
But before I expand on this, I should say that I do think that Mr D couldve bought  around  a 
few added years on his NHS pension, based on information received from the NHS  pension 
scheme. This is because  by his normal pension age for the scheme  of 60, Mr D wouldnt 
have reached 40 years service, and under  the rules this meant  he couldve bought between 
a small number of added years. 
As mentioned, I dont  think that it is more likely  than not that Mr D wouldve bought such 
years. Mr D had a planned retirement age of 65, according to the Personal  Fact Find and its 
stated elsewhere that he intended to work to 65. If Mr D had asked his employer  for the 
information he wouldve  been told how many years he could buy, but only if he retired at 60, 
and he wouldve been given the cost of purchase. 
Given his planned  retirement age of 65, Mr D couldve achieved 40 years service  in the NHS 
pension scheme  by working past 60 without incurring the cost of buying added years. And 
the purchase of added years wasnt subsidised by the NHS, so Mr D wouldve had to pay the 
estimated cost of providing those additional  years,  spread  over the years  until 60. Mr D 
wouldve had to make  a long-term  commitment to pay more of his salary in pension 
contributions to obtain a benefit he couldve obtained at lower cost before his intended  
retirement age. Although  I think it is quite likely he couldve afforded  to do so, I dont think I 
can fairly say that he wouldve done  so, given these factors.  
Ref: DRN04159084Given Mr Ds planned retirement  age of 65, and his objective to build  up his pension  
provision, I think the recommendation  to invest in a SHP was suitable. The SHP had low 
fees, was flexible in contributions (which Mr D took advantage of) and the fund 
recommendation met Mr Ds attitude to risk. He could contribute to it in addition to his 
existing occupational pension and his plan to retire at 65 meant he should  obtain the 
maximum possible occupational scheme entitlement without having  to pay for added years.
For all the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding  the complaint. Im sorry to disappoint  Mr D. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0415908