K820x#14complaint
Ms A is unhappy with Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline a claim she 
made on her buildings insurance policy. 
background
Ms As neighbour told her about damage  to their property, which  prompted  Ms A to 
investigate her own. She discovered there  was damage as a result  of water having  entered 
the property, so she made a claim under her buildings insurance  policy.
Admiral declined the claim. It said the damage had been caused  over time, not because of a 
one-off insured event. There were two areas  of Ms As home which had been  affected, a 
small cupboard with a roof above it  and Ms As bedroom. Both areas had damage related 
to problems with the sections of roof covering  them. Admiral explained its surveyors  had 
attended the property, and they believed damage  to both areas was the result of ongoing 
water penetration. Admiral treated the incidents  as one claim for storm damage  because it 
said this was the best category to consider  it under,  based on the circumstances. 
Ms A was unhappy  with the decision to decline the claim. She accepted one area of her 
home (the small cupboard) wouldnt be covered.  But she was unhappy  Admiral  wouldnt 
meet the claim for damage  to her bedroom.  She also disagreed  with how the claim was 
recorded. Ms A raised her concerns with Admiral, but it maintained  its position,  and said it 
wouldnt pay the claim. So Ms A brought her case to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms As complaint, but she didnt think  Admiral  had acted 
unreasonably. She said the evidence showed damage had been caused over a period of 
time, not by an insured event, and the policy didnt cover Ms A for wear  and tear. Ms A 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary shes  said:
shes not claiming for damage to her roof but for the inside of her bedroom;
the decision to decline the claim is unreasonable;
the claim isnt for storm  damage
the surveyor  said the claim should be covered  by Admiral and were  surprised it had 
been declined.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In cases such as this, I think its helpful to begin  by explaining how the claims process works.
Ms As policy isnt an all-risks  policy, which  means it doesnt have to provide  cover for all 
eventualities. The only events it covers are the insured perils  listed within the policy 
document. These include, among others; theft, storm or flood damage.  
This means  it is the policy  holders (Ms As) responsibility to show  an insured peril has 
occurred and caused a loss. If the policy holder can show this has happened,  the insurer 
should either accept  the claim,  or show that the loss isnt covered.
Ref: DRN06223672So Ms A must show:
a)damage was caused to her home,  and;
b)that the damage was caused  by something her policy covers her for. 
Has Ms A proved her claim?
Its not in dispute  theres damage  to Ms As home  from ingress of water   I can see that from 
her testimony and the other evidence I have available. So Im satisfied Ms A meets the first 
part of the test Ive set out above.  But that doesnt  necessarily mean she has a claim 
covered by her policy. An insurance policy isnt generally designed to provide cover  for every 
eventuality, and its also not for maintaining a property, thats the responsibility  of the policy  
holder. So Ms A still has to show the damage was caused by an event that her policy covers. 
Ms A was made aware of the damage by her neighbour, not by a specific  event like a storm 
or a flood. In its notes,  Admiral has said the damage appears to have  been  ongoing for some 
time. So, it seems theres nothing which points to a specific event thats  covered  by Ms As 
policy being responsible for the damage. And because Ms A cant show the damage was 
caused by an event shes covered for, I cant say she meets the full test Ive set out. So, on 
face value, Ms As claim isnt covered by her policy.  
I understand that Ms A might be unhappy  Admiral  classified  the claim as storm damage. 
But ultimately, the classification doesnt  matter,  because no insured event has been shown 
to have caused the damage.
Ive also seen Ms As policy included  accidental damage cover, which  offers additional 
protection to her. Specifically, the policy defines accidental damage  as Sudden, unexpected 
and visible  loss, or damage which has not been caused  wilfully or deliberately. So Ive also 
checked the relevant terms to see whats covered under this section. 
The accidental damage terms state that the policy will not cover  Ms A for loss or damage  
caused By water entering the home  other  than by storm or flood. So, it seems the only way 
Ms A is covered for ingress of water  is if its caused by an insured peril. And although I 
understand why Ms A might have thought shed be covered, Im satisfied in this case  that the 
damage to her home  wasnt caused  by an insured event. So I cant  say Admiral declined her 
claim unfairly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Simon Louth
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0622367