K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains as a director of A, a limited company, about the way China Taiping 
Insurance (UK) Co Ltd (China Taiping)  handled  its buildings insurance claim and the 
settlement it has offered.
background
In February 2016  Mr C says there was damage  caused to a property by two storms. His 
broker reported these  issues to his insurer, China Taiping  in June 2016. China Taiping 
appointed a loss adjuster who visited the property  in July 2016.  At the beginning of August 
2016 China  Taiping accepted liability and began  to consider settling the claim. It asked Mr C 
to provide estimates.
From August  2016  onwards,  the claim moved  slowly  and there  appear  to have been several 
periods where  very little happened. Mr C says these delays were caused by China Taiping, 
but China  Taiping says it was waiting for estimates from Mr C.
In June 2017 China Taiping contacted Mr C to confirm that the invoices it had received to 
date were the complete claim. But Mr C responded to say that he had further invoices for 
carpet cleaning  he wanted to add. After this time, the parties  discussed  some of the 
estimates that had been received  and negotiated where China Taiping believed these 
were too high. And in November 2017, Mr C provided China Taiping with all the invoices and 
quotes he had.
At the beginning  of February 2018, China Taiping spoke to Mr C. He explained that the roof 
hadnt been repaired but he had replaced the carpet  and redecorated. He said that further  
damage had occurred due to the leak from the roof continuing. China  Taiping  explained  that 
the roof should have been repaired  first but Mr C said he couldnt afford to fix the roof. China  
Taiping said it hadnt been told that information  before and asked  Mr C to urgently  obtain an 
updated quote for the roof as the one provided  was now out of date.
Mr C sent China Taiping  an updated  quote for the roof repairs  at the end of February 2018 
and at the end of March 2018 an interim payment was made, which  included  a payment 
cover the cost of repairing  the roof. But when the contractor arrived at Mr Cs property to 
carry out a survey before the works  commenced,  he identified  that a parapet wall would 
need to be partially  rebuilt before the roof could be repaired. China Taiping said this wall 
wasnt covered by the policy  as the damage  was the result of gradual  deterioration,  rather  
than an insured event.
Following this, Mr C advised China Taiping that he now wanted to claim  for the cost of 
replacing the entire conservatory rather than just the roof panels as further  damage  had 
been caused. A further survey was carried out which said that a full replacement wasnt  
necessary and estimated the cost of repairing the conservatory to be around  £22,000.  China 
Taiping then made an offer in full and final settlement of the claim of £11,100. 
Mr C isnt happy with the offer made by China Taiping  he says it should  pay the entire  cost 
of repairing  the conservatory. And he is unhappy  with the way his claim has been handled 
and the length of time it has taken.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part. He said that China 
Taipings offer to settle the claim was fair but that it should  also include the cost of repairing 
Ref: DRN01232412the parapet wall as it needed to be replaced  in order for the roof to be repaired. He thought 
some of the delay was due to China Taiping waiting for invoices but did think there  had been  
some avoidable  delays and that China Taiping should pay Mr C £150 compensation for this. 
Both parties  didnt agree.
China Taiping said the damage to the parapet wall was caused by wear  and tear and wasnt  
mentioned in the initial damage survey, so it shouldnt have to cover the costs of repairing it 
now. Mr C says China Taiping should cover  the entire cost of repairing the conservatory and 
he says that, had he not carried  out the internal  works to the conservatory, China Taiping 
would now have to pay him significantly more than the amount of the works as he would 
have needed to make a substantial claim for loss of earning.
As neither party agreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator and for the same reasons.
Mr C has raised  further issues during this complaint but as the investigator  explained, these  
would need to be raised as new issues. I will only be considering the issues Mr C originally 
raised with us as part of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of detailed points  and Ive considered all of them.  But my 
decision will focus on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. I dont intend this as 
a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal  nature of our service and my role in it.
settlement offer
China Taiping has offered Mr C £11,100 in settlement  of the claim   this is around half of the 
most recent estimated costs of repairing the conservatory. Mr C believes China Taiping 
should pay the full amount.
China Taiping has agreed that there was damage to the conservatory caused by the storms 
in 2016. But it maintains  that, had Mr C had the conservatory roof repaired before beginning 
to replace items inside  the conservatory,  further  damage  wouldnt  have  occurred  so in 
essence it says that Mr C didnt mitigate  his losses.
Having considered this, I think  Mr C shouldve done  more to mitigate his losses. He was 
aware that the roof of the conservatory hadnt  been  fixed and was therefore  still leaking. So 
he knew that there was a distinct  possibility that the carpet and redecoration  he carried  out in 
the conservatory could be damaged further until the roof was fixed. But nevertheless, he 
made the decision to repair some  of the internal issues,  before making the conservatory 
water-tight. So as I think it was reasonably  foreseeable that there would be further damage 
caused by having the internal  issues  fixed  before repairing the roof, I dont think  it would  fair 
and reasonable for me to ask China Taiping to cover  the costs  of the further damage that 
was caused to the inside of the conservatory  and could have been avoided  had Mr C 
chosen to repair the roof in the first instance.
Mr C says he didnt have  the funds to repair the roof  and thats why he hasnt done it. But 
the invoices and estimated costs of the works  show  that Mr C spent more replacing  the 
Ref: DRN01232413carpets and redecorating the function  room than it would  have  cost to repair the roof. So I 
think he couldve done more to prevent further damage to the conservatory by repairing the 
roof in the first instance  to prevent further  damage.  And I think, had Mr C explained  this to 
China Taiping, it couldve considered making  an interim payment to assist  with the costs in 
repairing the roof. But I havent seen any correspondence that suggests Mr C requested an 
interim payment.
Mr C says he needed to repair  items  inside the conservatory so he could continue running  
his business from it. He says this prevented  a further claim for loss of earnings.  I have  
considered this, but unfortunately,  I cant comment on what might have happened had he 
had the roof repaired  in the first instance.  I can only consider what has actually  happened. It 
is possible that Mr C couldve made a claim for loss of earnings  under his policy  and it 
seems that Mr C may consider doing this. But the issue  I am considering  here is whether Mr 
C did enough to avoid any further damage to the conservatory  not whether  he couldve 
made a claim under  different circumstances. So this doesnt change  my opinion.
The latest survey suggests that repairing the conservatory would cost around £22,000. This 
includes some  of the internal works,  which  have  already been  repaired once  or replaced 
before, such as redecoration.  China Taiping has acknowledged  that, at this stage, it is 
difficult to estimate how much of the damage  was caused by the initial storm and how much  
has been caused by the roof continuing  to leak as it wasnt repaired sooner. And I have to 
consider that China Taiping has already made payments for electrical works, replacement  
carpets and redecoration once. So taking  everything into account,  I think  China Taipings 
offer to pay half of the amount it would now cost to repair and reinstate the conservatory  is 
fair in the circumstances.
parapet wall
China Taiping believes it shouldnt have to pay for the repairs  to the parapet  wall as the 
damage wasnt caused by the storms, it was caused  by general wear  and tear. But I would 
expect any repairs that were carried out on the property to be both lasting and effective  
that is that the repairs to the roof should  fix the damage and should  last for a reasonable 
length of time.
The latest survey carried  out on the property noted  that the condition of the wall was worn 
but it did also accept  that the wall would  need  to be taken down and rebuilt if the works  to 
the conservatory were  to be completed  to an acceptable and sustainable standard.  It 
explained that this was due to the design  of the wall, rather  than its age and condition. This 
has also been confirmed  by Mr Cs contractor, who stated that it would be impossible  to 
replace the damaged lead without  taking the wall down. So based  on the evidence Ive seen, 
I think the parapet wall does need to be replaced in order for there to be a lasting and 
effective repair to this property and I havent seen any suggestion  that the further water 
ingress since the original  storms has caused  any further damage to this wall. So it follows  
that I think China Taiping  should cover the entire  cost of replacing this wall.
claim for contents
Mr C has raised  a claim for contents  that he says were  damaged  due to the storm in 2016. 
China Taiping has declined this claim as it says the claim  was raised more than 180 days 
after the loss, which is excluded from the policy. Mr C says he raised this in 2016 when the 
first loss adjuster visited his property.
Ref: DRN01232414The first correspondence  Ive seen about the contents is from 2018 and there is no mention 
of damaged contents in any reports carried out when the claim  was first raised.  If Mr C had 
raised this, I would have  expected to see him chasing it up with China Taiping before 2018, 
particularly given the significant amount of correspondence  between the parties  involved.  So 
Im not satisfied that Mr C has evidenced that he raised this claim within 180 days  of the 
loss. And therefore,  I dont think China Taiping has acted unreasonably in relying  on the 
exclusion in the policy and declining this part of Mr Cs claim.
claim handling
Ive considered how China Taiping handled  Mr Cs claim. This claim has been ongoing for 
several years now, which I can appreciate must  be frustrating for Mr C, but I have to 
consider whether these delays have been caused  by China Taiping.
Ive considered what happened during this claim and I think  a lot of the delays were  as a 
result of China  Taiping  waiting for quotes and estimates from Mr C, which I cant hold China 
Taiping responsible for. However there  was a long period from the end of 2016 to the middle 
of 2017 where  very little seemed to happen, and I cant see any evidence that China Taiping 
chased Mr C for any outstanding quotes during this time. So I think  it couldve done more to 
proactively manage  the claim.
Ive also seen that the claim handler  changed on more than one occasion during the claim. 
China Taiping says this didnt cause any delay. But it seems  that during this period, China 
Taiping had been provided with quotes and estimates and it took around  two months before 
anything further  happened.  So I think China Taiping has caused some  avoidable delays.
Having said this, I do also think this claim always would have taken a long time to settle  as 
the quotes and invoices  were being  sent to it slowly and the claim has changed as time has 
progressed and the extend  of the damage  has increased.
I also have to consider  that this complaint has been raised on behalf of A, a limited  
company, rather than Mr C personally.  So while I dont doubt  that Mr C has been  frustrated 
with the claim, I can only look at any inconvenience caused to the limited  company, rather  
than the impact the claim has had on Mr C.
So taking everything into account, I think china Taiping should pay A £150 compensation for 
any inconvenience caused to it as a result of the avoidable delays during this claim. 
putting things right
China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd should  put things right by:
Paying A, the limited  company the total amount offered of £11,100 if it hasnt done so 
already
In addition to the above, paying  the costs incurred in rebuilding  the parapet  wall or 
reimbursing A for this if it has already had the works completed, subject to it 
providing receipts for the work.
If A has already had the parapet wall repaired,  China Taiping should  pay 8% simple  
interest on the amount from the date the invoice was paid to the date China  Taiping  
pays the settlement.
Ref: DRN01232415Pay A a total of £150 compensation if it hasnt done so already
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. China Taiping Insurance  (UK) Co Ltd 
should put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C on behalf  of 
A to accept  or reject  my decision before 30 April 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0123241