K821x#15complaint
Mrs T is unhappy  Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited turned down a claim she 
made on her pet insurance policy. 
background
Mrs Ts policy with Red Sands started  in January last year. She started  setting this up via 
web chat but the application was then completed during a follow up call which  Mr T was also 
involved with. 
In August  last year Mrs T made  a claim for treating an eye condition which her dog suffered 
from. Red Sands turned  down the claim. Initially it said this was because  it was linked to a 
condition the dog had been affected  by prior to the policy start date. 
However, Red Sands subsequently accepted the eye condition  which  formed the subject  of 
the claim was different  to those the dog had previously suffered from. But it said information 
about the previous problems wasnt disclosed when the policy was sold.  Red Sands said if it 
had been aware  of these it would have added an exclusion for eye conditions meaning the 
claim Mrs T has now made wouldnt have been  covered.  
Our investigator felt Mr and Mrs T misunderstood  the question  they were  asked about 
previous conditions during the sales call. And further  questions should have been asked 
about this. He didnt feel it was fair to turn down the claim. Red Sands didnt agree.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month and Ive included  an extract  
below. I said
Ive taken into account what the relevant law, the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure  and 
Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) says. It makes  clear that when taking out a policy a 
consumer has to take reasonable care when  answering questions asked by an insurer.  And 
an insurer needs to make sure the questions it asks are clear.
Ive listened to the sales call from when this policy was sold.  During that Mr and Mrs T were  
asked whether their dog had been to the vets for anything other than routine vaccinations at 
all. In response Mr T queried what timeframe was being asked about here. The advisor said 
since youve had her. 
I appreciate Mr T may still have been  confused about this because he asked  Mrs T what  had 
affected their dog in the last two years. But I think it was clear  that they were being  asked 
about a longer timeframe than that and I understand theyd had their dog for many years. 
And even  if more should then have been  done  to clarify the timeframe in question Mrs T 
provided information about an operation the dog had on its teeth in 2013  which  suggests  
she was considering a past history of at least four years. I think that shows  Mr and Mrs T 
understood they were being  asked  about  a period of longer than two years.  
In addition I can see from their dogs veterinary history its had eye problems since  2013 
which required treatment by Mr and Mrs T on an ongoing basis and there are vets notes 
relating to the eye problem within two years of the start date of this policy. So I think if 
Mr and Mrs T had been taking reasonable care when answering the question  they were  
asked they would have provided  details of this. But they didnt.  
Ref: DRN08109592Under the provisions  of CIDRA that means  theres been a qualifying  misrepresentation. So 
Red Sands  is entitled to do what it would have done  if Mr and Mrs T had taken reasonable 
care. It says it would  have  excluded cover on all claims with respect to the eyes and sight.  
And its provided underwriting evidence which satisfies me thats the case. So I think  its 
acted in line with the law. And thinking about  the circumstances of this case  I dont think its 
treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly.  As a result,  and while Im sorry to bring Mr and Mrs T what  I 
appreciate will be disappointing news, Im not intending to uphold  this complaint. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Red Sands  didnt comment on the provisional  decision. Mr and Mrs T did provide further 
comments. In summary they said:
They thought  the question was asking about anything other than routine visits to the vet 
and didnt think that would include the eye problems their dog had experienced  they 
felt the question was ambiguous and the advisor should have done more.  They  also said 
Mr T is deaf and wears a hearing aid so there was an increased responsibility on the 
advisor to make  the position clear;  
They said the condition theyd claimed for was a new condition  and unrelated  to the 
previous problems. And before they went ahead with treatment they spoke to Red Sands 
who asked questions  about what treatment their dog had previously  had. They provided 
information about the eye problems  at that point  and recall being told it was ok to go 
ahead with the treatment. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T say they thought the question related to anything  other  than routine visits to 
the vet. But the actual  question they were  asked was whether their dog had been to the vets 
for anything other  than routine vaccinations at all. And the vets notes indicate there were a 
number of discussions over the eye problems which identified these were an ongoing issue 
and at one point a referral  was considered if the position didnt improve.  
I recognise Mr T did say during the phone call he had hearing  problems  and asked the 
advisor not to speak  too fast. But Ive not seen anything to show  that prevented Mr T from 
understanding the question he was asked about  previous vets visits  he was able to query  
the time period this related to with the advisor  which suggests hed understood the question. 
And given  their dogs  history I do think that if theyd been taking reasonable care when 
answering this question they would  have provided further details  about  the previous eye 
conditions. 
I recognise those conditions do appear  to be unrelated to the problem that was subsequently 
claimed for. But Red Sands says if it had been  told about the past history it would have 
excluded cover on all claims with respect  to the eyes and sight. And its provided  
underwriting evidence which satisfies me thats the case. So I cant say its done anything 
wrong in turning down the claim Mrs T made.  
Ref: DRN08109593Mr and Mrs T have  also referenced  a call they made prior to going  ahead  with the treatment. 
Ive listened to that call and I agree they did provide information about  the previous  eye 
issues. In response the advisor said, although the current claim sounded like something 
which Red Sands  could review, when discussing  if it would be paid she said I cant  provide 
you with a guarantee over the phone. The reason is that all costs  are subject to a review of 
the clinical notes  which are provided  by the veterinary practice. So I dont think  Red Sands 
did provide Mr and Mrs T with inaccurate information at this time.  
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0810959