K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the charges  PSA Finance UK Limited has asked him to pay to 
refurbish a car hed returned after the voluntary termination of the conditional sale 
agreement.
background
In April 2015 Mr B entered into a five year conditional sale agreement with PSA for a used 
car. The car was four years old and had a mileage  of around 37,000.
Around June 2018 Mr B decided to voluntarily terminate the agreement  and hand the car 
back as his needs had changed. It was arranged for Mr B to take the car to the auctioneers 
who would  inspect and prepare a condition report on behalf  of PSA.  Mr B was present when 
the car was inspected  and signed the report to say he disagreed with its contents.
PSA sent Mr B a refurbishment  invoice for around £1,800. Mr B says he questioned the 
invoice and was told that £600  had been charged for missing  services in 2016,  2017 and 
2018. He was also told the remaining charges were for dents, scratches to the cars 
bodywork and rust and corrosion to the four alloys. There were a total of 15 different items of 
damage being charged for in the refurbishment invoice.
Mr B complained to PSA and said he disagreed  he was liable for the damages. He said hed 
kept the car in excellent condition and that as a used car it would sustain some damage 
through fair wear and tear. Mr B also said hed had the car serviced in 2018 when hed 
received the reminder letter and the service light had shown on the dash.  He said he hadnt 
been told by the dealership that the car would need  annual services.
PSA didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint saying,  after review  of the photos taken of the condition 
of the car when  it was handed  back, that the damage to it had been beyond  fair wear and 
tear. It also said that under the agreement it was Mr Bs responsibility to have the car 
serviced in line with the manufacturers recommendation and that he must also get the 
service book stamped.  It provided Mr B with a link to the inspection  report but unfortunately 
Mr B wasnt  able to access that.
Mr B complained to this service. Our adjudicator  reviewed the evidence and recommended 
that £75 should be deducted from the invoice for dirt in the bumpers paint as this wasnt 
evident in the photo that had been  provided.
Our adjudicator said he thought the other  charges were fair and in line with the 
British Vehicles Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines that set the industry  
standard as to what was and wasnt considered to be fair wear and tear when  a car was 
returned at the end of an agreement.
Our adjudicator also said he thought that the charges for the missed  services were fair. The 
agreement set out clearly  that the services  should be carried out in line with the 
manufacturers recommendations, and this information had been provided in the cars 
servicing schedule  documents.  He said it was also Mr Bs responsibility under  the agreement  
to have the service  book  stamped.
Mr B was unhappy at the offer of reducing the charges by £75. He said that he was able to 
provide the paperwork for the service  carried out in 2018 and asked that £200 be deducted 
for the lack of the 2018 service. He also disputed the amounts being charged  and that PSA, 
Ref: DRN09019402by not having the car actually repaired,  hadnt  actually  suffered any financial loss. Mr B said 
the car was a used car and he wasnt the first owner, so it shouldnt  be judged  by the same 
standards as a new car would be.
PSA, as a gesture  of goodwill, agreed to reduce the outstanding invoice by a total of £195. 
Mr B disagreed this was fair as not being  enough  of a reduction. He said the service  book 
had been stamped and it was unfair to charge for the 2018 service as missing when it had 
been done. He said he thought the costs  charged for refurbishing the damage were  
excessive and disagreed that some of the photos showed the level of damage claimed.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that under the terms and conditions of the conditional sale agreement Mr B is 
responsible for any loss or damage to the vehicle even if it wasnt  his fault. If the car is found  
to have damage or missing items that are considered to be beyond fair wear  and tear then 
PSA is able to charge Mr B the cost of rectifying that damage.  PSA isnt obliged to have the 
car repaired as the compensation  is for the reduction in the cars value due to the missing 
service history and the condition of the bodywork and alloys. So I disagree with Mr B that by 
not having the car actually  repaired there will have been  no financial detriment to PSA. The 
cars sale value will have  been impacted by its overall condition.
Mr B has also challenged the amounts charged by PSA, for instance £50 for having the car 
valeted, as he says the amounts are excessive. However, it isnt the role of this service  to 
look at the amounts charged as that is a business  decision  for PSA.  What  I must consider is 
whether those charges were applied fairly to Mr B.
Ive seen from the report that were 15 different items  raised in the refurbishment invoice 
most of which are disputed by Mr B. Looking first at the lack of services and lack of stamps  
in the service book;.  Mr B accepts he didnt have the car serviced annually as he should  
have done. He says this was because he was advised by the dealership to have the car 
serviced when he received the reminder  letter, or the cars dash indicated  a service was due. 
I dont know what was said by the dealership but Mr B was provided  with the cars servicing 
schedule so I think he was provided  with the necessary information as to when  the car 
should be serviced. The agreement is also clear that the car must be serviced  in line with the 
manufacturers recommendation, of which he had been informed, and this wasnt  done.  
Servicing as recommended is important as its evidence  that the car is properly maintained. A 
missing service history is likely to have an impact on the value  of a car so I think  its fair for 
PSA to charge for the missing  services in 2016 and 2017.
Mr B says its unfair to charge him for the missing service in 2018  as this was done and he 
has produced the invoice  for this. He also says the service book was stamped because the 
garage that carried out says it always stamps them. The paperwork for the service wasnt  
provided when  the car was handed back and Ive seen that Mr B would have been instructed  
to make sure everything was handed  in with the car. PSA says it isnt possible to later join 
paperwork with cars and I can understand that they may be difficult. The car appears to have 
been sold fairly soon  after being  returned which isnt unreasonable.
Ref: DRN09019403I have no evidence the service book was stamped and when the car was inspected  it was 
listed as missing and the photo shows a blank page which is number 1 of 6. Mr B was 
present when the report was prepared so I think it would have been reasonable to expect 
him to point  out the stamp at the time if it had existed.  Im satisfied that the charge for the 
missing 2018 service was fair and reasonable.
Mr B has disagreed that there was a stain in the upholstery of one of the cars seats saying 
this was a water mark. Looking at the photo I think the mark on the seat is clear  and would 
require cleaning and I think  the charge for this is fair.
Mr B disagrees that the BVRLA guidelines say that corrosion and rust to alloys is beyond fair 
wear and tear. Looking  at the guidelines  I can see that they say dent on wheel rims and 
wheel trims are not accepted.There  should be no rust or corrosion on the alloy wheels. 
Looking at the photos of the four alloy wheels Im satisfied  these  all show  rust and corrosion 
and so the charges are fair in respect  of the alloys.
There were originally three separate charges relating to the rear bumper  one of which  was 
then later removed by PSA. Looking at the photos I can see multiple scuff marks and that 
the bumper is misaligned. I think the sizes of the scuff marks are such that would fall into the 
unacceptable category  under the BVRLA guidelines. So Im satisfied that both these 
charges are fair.
Mr B has been charged for poorly  matched  paint  in respect of the front bumper. He says he 
didnt have the car repaired and thats  something  which is impossible for him to prove.  He 
says the photo  doesnt  show enough of the bumper for a comparison.  But I think  the photo 
does show the mismatching of the paint and so I am satisfied there is a fault there. As I have 
no evidence to show that the bumper  was in that condition when Mr B received the car I 
cant reasonably  say he shouldnt be found liable for that damage.  So I think the charge was 
fair.
Mr B disputes that the scratch to the front wing of the car is chargeable as it hasnt 
penetrated the paintwork.  Looking at the photo  I disagree with Mr Bs view as I think it does 
show the scratch has gone through the paint.  So I think  this was a fair charge on the invoice.
Mr B says that the dent to the front door was present when he first acquired the car. 
Unfortunately I have no evidence to corroborate that and the dent and paint damage is clear  
in the photo. I cant reasonable say that in the circumstances this was an unfair charge.
Mr B disputes the dent to the bonnet and although I agree the sun is shining on to the car 
when the photo was taken  I think the dent is visible and of a size that falls outside fair wear  
and tear.
Mr B says that as the car was used then some  damage would be expected and its unfair to 
charge him for damage that amounts to 5% of the cars  total bodywork. But looking at the 
report there were a number of other  dents and minor  paint damage that were found on the 
car which were not the subject of any charges. Looking at the inspection report  and evidence 
I cant reasonably say that PSA acted unfairly  in charging Mr B for the damage save for the 
charge in relation to the rear bumper that it removed.  PSA has also agreed to further  reduce  
the invoice by £120, making a total reduction  of £195, which  I think is fair and I wont  ask it 
do more.
Ref: DRN09019404my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I think the settlement  offered  by PSA Finance UK Limited  to 
reduce the refurbishment invoice sent to Mr B by £195 is fair and Im not asking it to do any 
more. If Mr B is unable to pay this invoice  in one lump sum then I would expect 
PSA Finance UK Limited to set up an affordable payment plan for him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0901940