K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund disputed transactions  
made on her account.
background
Miss N says that fraudulent transactions totalling £684.10 were made from her HSBC  
account between  3 and 7 February 2018.
Miss N says that on 3 February 2018 she was out shopping and had her debit card in her 
pocket. She said she usually keeps her card in her purse  but had taken it out and put it in 
her pocket on that day  although she didnt use it. She believes the card mustve fallen out 
of her pocket. Miss N says her PIN wasnt  with her card and she doesnt know  how someone 
couldve worked out her PIN. She said she noticed she didnt have her card a few days later 
when she was looking in her purse. Miss N notified  HSBC at that point her card was missing.
HSBC investigated  and decided to hold Miss N liable for the transactions, saying:
the genuine card and PIN were used  and they cant see how the PIN was 
compromised
the transactions were over a three  day period with lengthy gaps, implying the person  
using the card wasnt concerned it would be cancelled 
the spending pattern wasnt usual fraudster behaviour
Following their investigation Miss N got in touch with HSBC  in March 2018  and let them  
know that she thought someone  named L, stole her PIN and address information along  with 
her card from her handbag. Miss N told HSBC that she had reported it to the police and had 
an interview with them.  Also that L had contacted her following her interview with the police. 
Miss N let HSBC know that she was unhappy  with the outcome theyd reached,  and she 
raised a complaint about the service shed received from them  in particular how a staff 
member talked to her on a call she had with them.  
HSBC acknowledged  that a call Miss N had with them wasnt  handled as well as it couldve 
been and apologised to Miss N, saying  they would provide feedback to prevent 
re-occurrences. But confirmed to Miss N that they would be holding her liable  for the 
disputed transactions.  
Miss N wasnt  happy with HSBCs response, so she brought a complaint to our service
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt it 
was more likely than not that Miss N authorised the transactions. He said it was unclear how 
Miss Ns PIN was compromised and that he felt the spending wasnt  in a typical fraudster 
pattern.
Miss N disagreed with the investigators view saying she hadnt  authorised  the transactions  
and that we should refer to the police evidence.  
The investigator asked  Miss N to provide a copy of the letter  shed received from the police 
as well as the police  report.  This wasnt provided but Miss N did give permission for the 
investigator to contact the police directly to get the information. Action  Fraud wouldnt 
disclose any information  to our service  without Miss N being  present on the call with us, and 
Ref: DRN01839792the police  told us that the crime reference  number  we gave  them was too old and there 
would no longer be a record of it. So, we contacted  Miss N again to let her know we were 
unable to get the information directly ourselves, and asked her to send us any evidence  she 
had regarding her contact with the police  but we didnt receive anything from Miss N.
So, the complaint was passed to me to be reviewed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As part of this Im required to take into 
account relevant:  law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;  codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on what  
I consider is most likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence.
Generally, HSBC can hold Miss N liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence  
suggests that its more  likely than not that she made or authorised them  herself. 
In this case its not in dispute that Miss Ns genuine card and PIN were  used to make the 
disputed transactions.  But the regulations relevant  to this case say that is not, on its own, 
enough to enable HSBC to hold her liable. So, I also need  to think about whether the 
evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that Miss N consented to the transactions  
being made.
Its unclear exactly when and how Miss Ns card went  missing. Miss N initially told HSBC 
that she was out shopping  and had her card in her pocket, saying that she thought it had 
fallen out of her pocket.  Miss N told HSBC that the PIN wasnt in her pocket and she didnt 
know how someone wouldve known  it. The evidence HSBC  has provided shows  Miss N last 
used her card with her PIN in December  2017, which  is two months before the transactions  
she is disputing. It also shows there were no failed PIN attempts  before  the disputed  
transactions took place, meaning  the person using the card used the correct PIN the first 
time. As Miss N says that her PIN wasnt with her card in her pocket and wasnt written  
down, its unclear how someone  couldve  not only correctly guessed  her PIN  but also 
correctly guessed it the first time they used her card. Because  there was such  a gap 
between when Miss N last used her card with her PIN and the disputed transactions,  I cant 
see that there was an opportunity for someone to observe Miss N entering her PIN and to 
have become aware of her PIN that way. Based on this I think its unlikely that someone 
couldve found Miss Ns card or taken it from her pocket and been able to successfully use it.
So, Ive also thought about  whether Miss Ns card and PIN mayve been stolen, which is 
what she later told HSBC.  Miss N told HSBC that she believed  a person known to her  L  
had stolen her card,  her address information  and her PIN out of her handbag. And that she 
thought it was L who completed the transactions. 
But its unclear  why Miss N wouldnt have told HSBC straight  away if her card and PIN had 
been stolen from her handbag by someone known to her. From what  Ive seen Miss N didnt 
provide HSBC with this second version of events until March, after HSBC had finished their 
investigation and told her they would  be holding her liable for the transactions  - as they 
couldnt see how someone wouldve known her PIN. 
Ref: DRN01839793Also, although weve asked  Miss N for evidence of her dealings with the police to help 
support this version of events, we havent been  provided with anything. Miss N told us that 
she had a two hour interview with the police in her home, following which she received a 
letter from them. She said this letter confirmed the reporting of the crime as well setting out 
what would  happen  next. But weve been  unable  to get any evidence  directly from the police 
or Action Fraud, and despite asking  Miss N for her evidence repeatedly havent been  
provided with it. 
I also have to take into account  that if someone known to Miss N had stolen her card and her 
PIN, I wouldve expected  them to remove as much money as possible in the shortest time 
possible. But the first transaction that Miss N has disputed happens on 3 February 2018 and 
was for only £40 - even  though there were significantly  more  funds available in her account. 
And while there was another transaction  within an hour for £200 on 4 February 2018, there 
is then a gap of nearly 12 hours before the card was used again. The thirteen transactions  
being disputed  were completed over the course of 3 days and included  multiple  small value 
purchases. A fraudster would usually be worried about the card being cancelled, so would 
take out the maximum amount of money  in the shortest time possible  which  hasnt 
happened here.
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded that its more  likely than not that Miss N 
lost her card, as I cant see how her PIN was compromised. And I havent seen any 
evidence to persuade me that her card and PIN were stolen. Overall,  I think  its most likely 
that Miss N authorised  the transactions either by completing them  herself or by giving her 
card and PIN to someone to use. Therefore, HSBC is entitled to hold Miss N liable for the 
disputed transactions.
Miss N is unhappy with the level of customer service she received from HSBC, in particular 
how she was spoken to by a staff member during a call. Having listened to the call, I agree 
that HSBC couldve  handled it better. They werent particularly helpful as to what  would  be 
happening next, and they didnt explain to Miss N why certain questions they were asking 
her were  important to their investigation. But in the circumstances,  I think  HSBCs apology  
and commitment to provide feedback  to prevent it happening again is a fair award. So, I 
wont be asking HSBC  to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2020.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0183979