K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the outstanding balance that Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage) say 
he owes them after his car was written off.
background
Mr O took receipt of a used car in January  2017.  He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Advantage but in August 2018 the car was involved in an accident 
and was written off. 
Mr Os insurance  company paid the insurance settlement directly to Advantage and they 
reduced the balance outstanding. In September 2018 that balance  was £5,907.17 but Mr O 
disputed it with Advantage.  He made  a payment  towards his agreement  at the start August 
2018 but hasnt paid anything since.
Advantage said theyd reduced the balance on the account by the amount of the insurance 
pay-out that Mr O had agreed with his insurers. They  said theyd tried to engage with Mr O 
about a repayment plan but hed not engaged  with them.
Mr O referred  his complaint to this service and our adjudicator provided her opinion.  She 
didnt think Advantage had done  anything wrong.  She noted  that the balance of the account 
was £10,407.17 and this reduced to £5,907.17  when the insurance pay-out of £4,500 was 
credited to Mr Os account.  So she thought the balance was correct. She noted that the 
terms of Mr Os finance agreement allowed Advantage to handle the insurance pay-out 
themselves and she therefore  thought  theyd managed it appropriately. So she didnt think 
that Advantage needed to take any further action.
But Mr O was still dissatisfied. He said Advantage had refused to give him the car wreckage 
and he thought that was unfair. He went on to complain that he was being asked to pay 
almost £6,000 for something he had no use of. He said the outstanding balance should  be 
closer to £800. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr O so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
Ref: DRN00299492Mr O received a settlement figure  from Advantage in September which  represented the new 
balance on the account after the insurance  claim of £4,500  had been  debited.  I asked 
Advantage how that figure had been calculated and they explained that it had been 
calculated in line with the formulas set out in the Consumer Credit (Early  Settlement) 
Regulations 2004. They explained  that they have no control over this methodology. The 
calculations have been completed automatically and the algorithms had been  frequently  
audited externally.
Ive considered that information and I agree with Advantage.  I think its fair to suggest  that 
their IT systems and the formulas applied within them will be subject to frequent  auditing and 
regular external independent  scrutiny. Mr Os calculations havent  taken  into account that the 
interest was front loaded so I dont agree with Mr Os alternative  calculation and I think its 
therefore most likely  that £5,907.17 was the outstanding debt after the insurance pay out 
was debited from the sum due.
I can see that Mr O disputed  whether he should  have  been allowed to receive the wreckage 
of the car. Its normal, when an insurer settles  a loss, for them to retain the salvage. If the 
insurer were to allow Advantage  to take back the wreckage it would need to deduct the value 
it would  receive for the car as salvage,  from the pay out. I can see that didnt happen here as 
the wreckage  wasnt returned to Mr O. But as that wouldve made the debt greater  I dont 
see that Advantage have done  anything wrong.
I can see that Mr O has been disappointed that Advantage have asked for a lump  sum 
payment but I dont  think thats the case.  Theyve explained that they are happy to discuss  a 
repayment plan with Mr O and Ive seen that theyve sent him income and expenditure forms 
to fill in so that they can review his financial situation and come to a reasonable 
arrangement. I think this is a fair approach in the circumstances.
So overall, Im not persuaded that Advantage have done anything wrong here and Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0029949