K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained about what American Express Services Europe Limited did when he asked 
it to help him get some money back for a purchase.
background
Mr S bought an item through  a popular online auction site. He said he returned  it, but some  
weeks later the item had apparently not been  received  back  by the seller. Because  the 
online auction site said he needed  to prove the item had been  received, he asked his card 
issuer, AmEx, to help.  He said AmEx  told him it would only help if he could prove the item 
had been returned. When he couldnt,  it reinstated the transaction  and he had to pay for it. 
Mr S then complained, but when he chased  up his complaint, it hadnt been opened. So he 
complained again. He told us AmEx  had offered  him 5,000  membership points,  but he 
thought that was just an insult.
Mr S said hes since been  able to get the money he paid for the purchased item back, by 
talking to the online auction  sites  legal department. But he said he didnt have any 
confidence in AmEx  any more. As a resolution to this complaint, he wanted  AmEx to cancel 
his card,  and to give him back all of the annual fee it charges. And he wanted compensation 
for the time hed wasted and stress hed been caused. 
AmEx said it had asked Mr S for proof of return, and it thought that it was right to do that in 
advance of contacting the merchant to pursue Mr Ss dispute.  But he hadnt sent anything 
through, so it had closed his dispute. AmEx  didnt think it had made  a mistake about that. 
AmEx was sorry that it hadnt raised  his complaint the first time he asked it to. It had given 
Mr S 5,000  membership reward points to say sorry for that. 
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. She said that AmExs  
chargeback policy requires proof of return which is in accordance  with the merchants return 
policy. Although Mr S said he didnt have  that, she didnt think  that this was an unfair 
requirement in the circumstances. The tracking  number wasnt  enough. 
Our investigator also said although AmEx  hadnt  raised Mr Ss complaint when he first asked 
it to, it had then responded very quickly when  he chased up that request. And it had given 
him 5,000 reward points.  She thought that was enough to make  up for what  had gone wrong. 
Our investigator didnt  think AmEx had to pay him back  the whole of his annual fee. He could 
have a pro rata refund.  
Mr S didnt agree. He wanted us to show him where  it said that he needed proof of postage 
over and above the retailers requirement. And he said hed wanted the account to be closed 
when he wrote his letter,  so he wanted us to have it closed now, and any refund to be 
backdated.
Our investigator said AmExs terms dont say he needs proof of postage. But she didnt think  
it was unreasonable for AmEx to ask for further details. And AmEx  had told us his account 
was open and in use, so if he wanted to close it he would have to ask AmEx to do that. 
Ref: DRN01033612Mr S said that AmEx was trying to insist  on terms that dont exist. He said hed followed the 
auction sites return rules to the letter, and it had eventually agreed  with him about that when 
he spoke to its legal department. 
Mr S also said that he had asked for his account  to be closed,  and AmEx was copied in on 
that request.  So he wanted us to backdate that request to when it was received. Mr S 
wanted a final decision from an ombudsman, so his case  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr S has told us he returned his item using the prepaid postage option that the auction site 
provides. AmEx initially asked for proof of postage, which he didnt  have. He said that the 
auction site didnt require that, and hes told us since then that he just didnt know he could 
ask for this. That doesnt mean that it was an unreasonable thing  for AmEx to ask for. 
But in fact, AmExs position  doesnt seem to have been quite as straightforward as just 
refusing to process his chargeback because he didnt have proof of purchase. When  it wrote 
to him, it asked him 
if the goods/services  were cancelled/returned, please provide  a copy  of a document 
that shows that goods returned were in accordance  with the merchants return  policy 
and a copy of the post receipt  or shipping documents to show  goods  returned with 
date and cancellation number.  
It said he could either  upload those documents online, or fax them to AmEx.
And thats consistent  with what I can hear that AmEx said to him on a subsequent call, 
where it asked him to provide  a screenshot of the returns process,  which he could do online. 
It seems  likely that AmEx wanted this so it could see that the auction  sites  returns  process 
had been followed. Mr S said he couldnt  do that because he didnt have  a fax machine or a 
smartphone. He said hed given AmEx a tracking  number, and all he could do was repeat 
that number over the phone for AmEx.
What Mr S seems to be saying  to us is that hed complied with the merchants  returns 
process. And, although he didnt have proof of postage, he presumably did have proof that 
hed ordered and paid for the prepaid postage label he used to return  the item. So I think its 
more likely than not that Mr S actually had enough  proof to satisfy  AmExs requirements for 
a chargeback. But he doesnt  seem  to have sent that evidence  to AmEx. I think  that Amexs  
requests were clear  and reasonable,  so I dont think thats AmExs fault. 
I dont think it was then unreasonable for AmEx to say that it wouldnt put forward  a 
chargeback request using only the tracking  number that Mr S had told it about.  I dont  think 
that it made  a mistake  when it did that. 
AmEx has paid Mr S 5,000  reward points for not initially opening  his complaint, when he 
rang in early  August. I think thats  enough  to make  up for that mistake.  And it has told us Mr 
S can have  a pro-rata refund  of his annual fee if he wants to cancel his card. 
Ref: DRN01033613Mr S said his account shouldve been  closed some time ago, so he wanted the refund of his 
fee to be backdated. If Mr S had wanted  his account closed right away, then I wouldve 
expected, as our investigator suggested,  that he wouldve just asked AmEx to do that. I dont 
think hes made a direct  request to AmEx to close his account.
Mr S said hed actually asked for that in his complaint form, which  he sent to AmEx at the 
same time as he sent it to us. I can see on that form that part of what Mr S wanted, to 
resolve this complaint, was to cancel his account  and get all of his annual fee back. I dont 
think that AmEx shouldve  realised  from this that Mr S wanted his account to be cancelled  
anyway, straight away, even if his complaint wasnt upheld by our service, and he wasnt  
going to get all of his annual fee back. 
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont think AmEx needs to do more  that its already 
done in this case. I know that Mr S will be disappointed, but I dont think  this complaint 
should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0103361