K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that an appointed  representative of TenetConnect Services Limited 
(Anand Associates  Limited) recommended an investment that wasnt  suitable  for them  and 
misled them  about  the potential of recovering their money.
background
In 2010 Mr and Mrs H invested £50,000 in the UK Secured Finance Fund (UKSFF), an 
Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS),  on advice from Anand  Associates.
TenetConnect is responsible for complaints about the acts or omissions of its appointed  
representatives, such as Anand Associates. Thats why this complaint  is against 
TenetConnect, rather than Anand Associates. For simplicity, from now on Ill only refer to 
TenetConnect when  considering the acts or omissions  of Anand Associates.
Mr and Mrs H say they first became concerned about their investment in 2013 when the fund 
wasnt achieving its target returns.  The fund was suspended in 2014, and shortly after 
Mr and Mrs H asked for their investment to be encashed when the fund reopened. But the 
fund didnt reopen. In 2015 liquidators were appointed who are progressing  legal and 
recovery action against parties involved in the operation and management of the fund. 
During this time Mr and Mrs H had ongoing communication with TenetConnect about the 
position of their investment and the ongoing  liquidation and legal action. To date, 
Mr and Mrs H havent received any of their investment back.
In 2017 Mr and Mrs H complained to TenetConnect, as they thought  it had misled  them  
about the investments risk level and about  the potential of recovering their money once the 
fund was suspended. However, TenetConnect said theyd brought  their complaint too late. 
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs H contacted our service.  At the end of our investigation, an 
ombudsman decided Mr and Mrs H had brought their complaint in time. 
TenetConnect then said Mr and Mrs Hs investment was unregulated and they hadnt 
received any regulated  advice about  it. I explained to TenetConnect why I thought  the advice 
it gave Mr and Mrs H was regulated, and it accepted this. 
After looking into the merits  of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, our investigator thought  
Mr and Mrs H were medium risk investors,  that the UKSFF was a high risk investment and 
that TenetConnect hadnt adequately explained those risks to Mr and Mrs H. Therefore he 
didnt think TenetConnects recommendation to invest in the UKSFF was suitable. 
To put things right, our investigator said that if TenetConnects unsuitable advice had caused 
Mr and Mrs H a financial loss, it should compensate  them  for that and he set out how 
TenetConnect should calculate this. Our investigator  also said TenetConnect should  pay 
Mr and Mrs H £750 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience it had caused them.
TenetConnect disagreed and made a number of comments which can be summarised as:
TenetConnect made it clear to Mr and Mrs H in the suitability report,  risk warnings 
and offering document that this was a high risk investment before they invested
Ref: DRN06550302the investment  was suitable for Mr and Mrs H because they were experienced 
investors and not reliant on this £50,000  alone for an income,  and because  this high 
risk investment was a small  part of their investment portfolio and was balanced out 
by their other low risk investments
Because TenetConnect disagreed, this complaints  been  passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it.
Mr and Mrs H say TenetConnect misled them about  the risk level of UKSFF, and that they 
took what it told them at face value and trusted it had their best interests at heart. They  say 
when they first met their TenetConnect financial adviser, he told them  they didnt need to 
look under  the bonnet because that was his job. 
For its part, TenetConnect says it explained  the high risk nature of the UKSFF to 
Mr and Mrs H before they made this investment. And it says they were experienced 
investors willing to take a risk.
In the risk questionnaire Mr and Mrs H completed  with TenetConnect prior to making this 
investment, TenetConnect categorised Mr and Mrs H as medium risk investors. Im satisfied 
they were medium risk investors and that they werent in a position to lose an investment of 
£50,000. I say this because the suitability report says they were looking  to reduce risk as 
they get older and that this fund was recommended to reduce overall risks. 
In addition, the risk questionnaire shows that at that time Mr and Mrs H had minimal pension  
provision, were reliant on their capital to provide  an income for the rest of their lives,  and had 
little disposable  income each month.  It also shows they wanted both grown and income, and 
that their existing investments were broadly medium risk and widely  diversified. So I think  
they had a medium appetite for risk.
However, the UKSFF was a high risk investment. I say this because it was unregulated  and 
therefore didnt  afford  the regulatory protections normally offered to retail  clients. This should  
have been an overriding  consideration.  But there  were several other factors  that also 
suggested it was high risk: 
it had no track record, as the concept  of deriving  investment returns through  bridging 
loans was a new one
it had a complex structure,  with several parties  involved
it offered a high return  12%,  when the Bank of England base rate was 0.5%
it had significant  liquidity risk  if lots of investors  wanted to withdraw at once, or 
there was a significant level of default on the loans, the investment might not have 
been easily realisable
it had a narrow focus, relying only on bridging  loans
it was dependent on the Specialist Partner meeting its obligations
Ref: DRN06550303TenetConnect had an obligation to give suitable  advice to Mr and Mrs H, and I think  that is 
the key consideration in this complaint. So Ive thought  about  the suitability of its advice, 
given what Ive already  said about  M and Mrs Hs personal and financial circumstances, their 
investment objectives  and their appetite for risk. And, as part of that, Ive considered the 
nature of the fund recommended.
TenetConnect says Mr and Mrs H were experienced investors.  And that it explained to 
Mr and Mrs H that the fund was high risk before they agreed  to invest in it. TenetConnect 
also says this high risk investment was balanced out in Mr and Mrs Hs portfolio  by their low 
risk cash  investments. 
But as Ive said, I dont  think Mr and Mrs Hs financial  position  was such that they could 
afford to lose a £50,000 investment. And while they had a diverse investment portfolio and 
seem to have invested in two high risk funds  previously, its clear  from the evidence  Ive 
seen that they were  reliant on TenetConnects advice, and were not seeking to take a high 
risk on this occasion.
Given what TenetConnect knew of Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances (that they had downsized  
and were reliant on capital to supplement  their income) and their desire to be more cautious  
as they were getting older, it should  have recognised that a £50,000 investment in an 
esoteric unregulated  fund wasnt suitable  for Mr and Mrs H.  
TenetConnect did include a number of generic risk warnings after it had delivered  its 
personal advice,  which  was good  practice. But that doesnt right the wrong  of the unsuitable 
advice it gave them. And its clear Mr and Mrs H were reliant on that advice. So the 
assurance Mr and Mrs H would  have  taken from TenetConnects advice that the investment 
in the fund was suitable  for their needs  would likely have carried  more weight than the risk 
warnings. 
Its not reasonable to say that Mr and Mrs H were  willing and able to accept a high level of 
risk for this investment simply because warnings  were given. TenetConnect should have 
done more than warn  of the risks  it should  have not recommended  a £50,000 investment 
in the fund as being  suitable. Had it done  so, Im satisfied the investment  would  not have 
been made.
In addition, I consider  that the suitability  report phrases things in such as a way as to make  
the risks involved in the UKSFF  seem lower than they were and to reassure  Mr and Mrs H 
about the safety of their potential investment. The following  wording is on pages eleven, 
thirteen and fourteen of the suitability report: 
I do not recommend  you consider [Venture Capital Trusts] with this money as they 
are generally a little too speculative for my liking for you.
I do not recommend  you participate in a Currency  Fund due to the speculative 
nature of them 
The Fund may suffer capital losses if there  are defaults under  Bridging Loans 
coupled with a significant reduction  in value of the security, Borrowers  cash flow and 
financial reserves, but the Promoter believes that the constitution of the Fund  and the 
underlying securities offer you a high degree of security  in capital and growth.  
Ref: DRN06550304The aim of the investment is primarily capital growth, and meets your attitude 
towards investment  risk and volatility i.e. medium risk.
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied that a £50,000 investment in the UKSFF 
was not a suitable recommendation  given the high risk associated with that fund,  and 
Mr and Mrs Hs personal and financial circumstances, their attitude to risk and their 
investment objectives.  
Mr and Mrs H say that since the fund was suspended, theyve talked to TenetConnect many 
times about whether and how they might recover their investment. Mr and Mrs H say 
TenetConnect has given them falsely optimistic and misleading information about this. 
 
For its part, TenetConnect says it passed on to Mr and Mrs H, in good  faith,  what it was told 
by those running the fund. It says the fund manager  was negligent  and allowed fraud to take 
place, but that TenetConnect  cant be held responsible for passing information  that turned 
out not to be accurate.
Its possible there were shortcomings  in the management of the fund, and some of the 
parties may have been accused  of acting fraudulently. But I am not in a position  to make any 
comment about those  issues. My role here is only to determine whether the advice given by 
TenetConnect to Mr and Mrs H was suitable. 
As Ive said,  Im satisfied  its advice was unsuitable. This means Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have 
been in this particular investment if not for the unsuitable advice TenetConnect gave them. 
They should  instead be put in the position  they would have been  in had they not made this 
particular investment. 
Im also satisfied TenetConnects unsuitable advice caused Mr and Mrs H distress  and 
inconvenience over a number of years. They would have been worried  about potentially  
losing what theyd invested and, in order to seek assurances and try to recover their money, 
they contacted  various parties over that time including  TenetConnect and other investors. I 
think the £750 suggested by our investigator is fair and reasonable compensation for that 
distress and inconvenience.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr and Mrs H as close to the position  they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable  advice. 
I take the view that Mr and Mrs H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances and objectives when they 
invested. 
what should TenetConnect do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs H fairly, TenetConnect must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs Hs investment  with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment.  If the actual value is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is 
Ref: DRN06550305payable.
TenetConnect  should also pay interest  as set out below.
Pay to Mr and Mrs H £750  for the distress and inconvenience they were  caused by 
TenetConnects unsuitable advice.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namebenchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional  interest
UKSFFFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per year from 
date of decision to date of 
settlement (if compensation 
is not paid within 28 days of 
the business being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
If at the end date the investment is illiquid  (meaning it could not be readily  sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to work  out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed  to be zero. This is provided Mr and Mrs H agree to TenetConnect 
taking ownership  of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for TenetConnect to 
take ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr and Mrs H that they repay to 
TenetConnect any amount they may receive from the investment in future. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs H wanted income with some growth  and were  willing  to accept some 
investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances and risk attitude.
Ref: DRN06550306my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold the complaint.  My decision is that 
TenetConnect Services Limited should  pay the amount calculated as set out above.
TenetConnect Services Limited should  provide details of its calculation to Mr and Mrs H in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H 
either to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0655030