K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms M are unhappy that there is a penalty  to cancel  their currency  reservation  
contract with The Foremost Currency Group  Limited (FCG).
background
Mr M says that when he and Ms M were involved in a property  transaction  abroad they 
wanted to be able to convert Euros into Sterling at a guaranteed price. So they made  a 
currency reservation contract with FCG  having been told thered be no penalty if they later 
cancelled it. But now that theyve looked  into cancelling  it theres a 3% charge of roughly 
£9,000 to do so. And theyd now get only £17,000 back from a £26,000 deposit they paid for 
the transaction. They say if theyd been told this they wouldnt have entered  into the contract. 
They want  the contract ended and their full £26,000  deposit refunded.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary she said:
When Mr M asked  to cancel the contract  FCG explained how the penalty  would be 
calculated by using  point adjustments. These were set by the market to lower  the 
spot exchange rate and took account of the total days left to the settlement day. Mr 
and Ms M had agreed  the contracts settlement day was 8 January 2020  and the 
closer they get to this day the smaller the points adjustment would be. This was 
explained to Mr M on both the phone and by email. But he wasnt told this before he 
accepted the contract.
When Mr M discussed the contract  before purchase he repeatedly asked if there was 
any charge to cancel  it. FCG  said that as long as the rate was higher than 1.1435 
Euros to the Pound there  would  be no penalty. As markets change  by the second it 
wouldve been impossible for FCG  to have given Mr M an exact figure for the point 
adjustments that might apply. But how this would  work couldve been explained to 
allow him to make  a more informed choice.  
During these calls Mr M thought  if the spot rate was higher than 1.1435 theyd be 
able to cancel  the contract  with no charge. He asked FCGs agent a clear  question.  
But the answer given assumed Mr M was aware  of how the points adjustment 
worked. It was reasonable for Mr M to assume  hed be told of any key costs in 
cancelling the contract  and explaining the point  adjustment wouldve been one to 
highlight.
But even  if Mr M had been told about the point adjustment he wouldve likely  still 
gone ahead  with the contract. Hed been  discussing it with FCG for several months  
and it wasnt a rushed  decision. The contract  was booked  to protect  Mr and Ms M 
from currency fluctuations for the next two years. And when a contract  is purchased 
its reasonable to assume those buying it will fulfil it and it shouldnt  have been 
bought with a view to cancelling it. During the sales call Mr M asked if he could 
potentially lose his full £26,000  deposit  and he was told it was all at risk if the rate fell 
to a certain point  when the contract  was cancelled.  But Mr and Ms M still went ahead 
with the contract  in the knowledge  all of the deposit was potentially at risk. 
FCG couldve done more to explain how the cancellation process works. But its 
reasonable to say that if Mr and Ms M had thought £6,000 was at risk theyd still have 
bought the contract.
Ref: DRN04325702Mr M doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  He says that if hed know  how 
the cancellation worked they wouldnt have taken out the contract. He also points out that 
the contract  is an insurance policy against fluctuating exchange  rates. Its designed to be 
cancelled or fulfilled at any time. They entered into the contract with the strong  possibility it 
would be cancelled depending on their plans and what  happened  with the property sale. He 
also thought the risk of losing all his deposit was almost non existent. Other businesses have 
been fined for not disclosing cancellation charges and FCG has breached consumer 
protection legislation. The investigator  responded that the legislation  Mr M referred to didnt 
apply in this case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has provided detailed submissions to support his and Ms Ms complaint. Ive read and 
considered them all. But my findings are expressed  in considerably less detail. And they 
focus on what I think are the main  issues.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Its clear that FCG gave  Mr M a more detailed explanation of how the contract cancellation 
would work  and how the charge was calculated, using point adjustments  and the time left on 
the contract, after the contract  had been taken  out than before it was entered into.
Even so I think Mr M was made aware before taking out the contract that their deposit was 
potentially at risk if the contract was cancelled. During the sales  call Mr M asked if he could 
potentially lose the full £26,000 deposit and he was told if the rate fell to a certain  point when 
the contract  was cancelled he could lose it all. 
And in an email to FCG he said we would  like to fix 300,000  euros at 1.14 for two years. 
According to us we would  need to give you 10% or £26,000 sterling  deposit  and in two years  
(or whenever before)  give you the balance of 270,000 euros. We can cash in the deal at any 
time and as long as the rate is 1.14 or above  we loose  nothing,  receive our £26,000 deposit 
back but make no profit.  If the rate is below 1.14 then you would return less of our deposit if 
the deal is cashed in.
Although this suggests Mr M didnt fully appreciate exactly how the cancellation charge 
would be calculated by reference to point  adjustments and the time left on the contract   
presumably because he hadnt been  told the detail of how this would be calculated   it does 
show he was aware all of their £26,000  deposit was potentially at risk. Even if Mr M thought 
this was an almost non existent risk they were  accepting  of it and the possibility they 
wouldnt get some or all of their deposit  back.
This contract  was to protect  Mr and Ms M from fluctuating exchange rates  and would do so 
for a two year period.  Mr M says they entered into the contract  in the knowledge they might 
end it at any time if their situation or plans changed.  I dont think  thats unreasonable. But I 
think it also shows they were prepared to accept the risk of having to pay the cancellation 
charge and not get all their deposit back in some circumstances.
Ref: DRN04325703Taking everything into account  I agree  with the investigator that its more likely Mr and Ms M 
wouldve bought  the contract even if theyd been given more detailed  information about how 
the cancellation charge was calculated, than not. I think  on balance they wouldve likely still 
gone ahead  at that time even if theyd  known their loss could be in the region of either 
£6,000 (the figure  mentioned by the investigator in her view)  or around £9,000 as could be 
the case if the contract ended about  now. 
My understanding is that the contract  hasnt actually  been  ended yet. Although I believe they 
have asked FCG for a more definite cancellation  figures and await a response. 
Consequently Mr and Ms M dont  appear  to have  actually  suffered any quantifiable loss at 
present.
In addition as the contract  runs until January 2020 it may well be that if they delay cancelling 
it the exchange rates may possibly change in their favour in the future resulting in there 
being no loss. The figures may also of course worsen and increase their potential  loss. They 
will need  to liaise with FCG to get the best result they can at what  they consider is an 
appropriate and the most  advantageous  time to fulfil or cancel the contract. 
Mr M also says other businesses have been  fined for failing to disclose cancellation charges. 
But this service isnt a regulator.  We cant  fine or punish a business or require  it to change its 
practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking  and finance  industry  works  
are a matter  for the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Ms frustration,  I dont  think I can fairly or reasonably require  
FCG to cancel the contract and pay back the entire  £26,000 deposit to them as hed like. 
And I dont  see any compelling reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0432570