K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W, as executors of the estate  of the late Mr R, complain that Clydesdale  
Financial Services Limiteds decision to approve  a loan for Mr R was irresponsible. 
background
Mr R borrowed  around £10,000  in June 2015 and agreed to repay  this with interest, over 120 
months at £126.30 a month. The loan was for home improvements. He was in his 70s at the 
time, and his income consisted of his pension and benefits. He was also suffering from a 
terminal illness and sadly he died in October 2018. 
Mr and Mrs W say Clydesdale acted irresponsibly by approving  Mr R for a loan. They  say it 
should have declined the loan on the basis of his age, illness  and the fact that his income 
wasnt secure as benefits can be reduced or withdrawn at any time. 
Clydesdale says it carried out credit, affordability and identity checks and Mr R met the 
relevant lending criteria. It says he didnt disclose the fact that he had a terminal  illness;  had 
it known this, it may have  changed the decision to lend to him. But it wouldnt decline an 
application for credit based on age. And Clydesdale says benefit  payments are an accepted  
form of income. 
Our investigator looked at all the information Clydesdale obtained  during  the sale process  
and obtained Mr Rs bank  statements  from Mr and Mrs W. On review  of this, it did appear 
that  whether knowingly  or not  Mr R had not recorded his income accurately. And he 
hadnt disclosed his medical condition. Nevertheless, the investigator was satisfied 
Clydesdale had carried out reasonable checks before approving this loan. He didnt think it 
could fairly  decline  Mr R for credit based  solely on his age and said many  lenders consider 
benefit payments  as a source of income. He said that even if Mr R had disclosed his correct  
level of income, the loan still appeared affordable  and this is evidenced by the fact that Mr R 
didnt miss a payment  for the three  years  he had the loan. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree.  So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached much  the same  conclusions 
as our investigator.
I appreciate that bringing this complaint will have  added to Mr and Mrs Ws distress. I want to 
assure them that I have  looked at all of the information and considered everything theyve 
said carefully. Im satisfied Ive got enough information to reach a fair and reasonable 
decision here. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs W but I dont think theres a great deal I can add to what 
our investigator has said already. For me to uphold this complaint, Id have to be satisfied 
that Mr R couldnt  afford the repayments  due under  this loan when  he took it out and that 
Clydesdale should  have realised that, if it had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before lending. 
Ref: DRN03349302Lenders are required to ensure they dont  lend irresponsibly.  The relevant rules  and 
guidance refer to a borrower  being able to repay  any credit  provided without undue difficulty, 
while being  able to meet other  commitments. 
Ive considered the checks Clydesdale did to get an understanding of whether Mr R would 
be able to repay the loan, and whether its decision was fair, based on the information it 
obtained and what it knew about his circumstances.  Im satisfied it asked Mr R for 
information about his personal situation  and his income, and reviewed his credit  file to check 
his payment history  and existing commitments. Mr R signed the credit agreement which 
gave him the full details of the commitment he was entering into. He was entitled to take out 
credit and had a reason for doing so as he had the home improvements carried  out. I cant  
see any reason, which  Clydesdale would have known about, for Mr R to be declined. 
If Mr R had disclosed his medical  condition, I think its likely Clydesdale  would have chosen 
not to lend to him. But Mr R didnt say he had a terminal illness.  Clydesdale  could only make 
a decision based  on the information available. And medical checks  arent  a requirement for 
obtaining credit.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W have  raised concerns that Mr Rs income was wrong on the 
application. And theyve queried  whether this is fraudulent. Its not clear  what  they mean by 
this, as Mr R completed and signed  the application  form.  I cant say with any certainly 
whether Mr R intentionally misled Clydesdale. But I agree with our investigator that its likely 
Clydesdale would still have lent to Mr R if it had been given the correct  information. This is 
because the bank statements provided  indicate  that the loan was affordable. Mr R made  the 
loan payments every month for three  years  and I cant see that he missed  any payments 
during this period. 
Mr and Mrs W say Mr R had confided in them that he was worried about the loan and this 
shows that the loan wasnt affordable. I dont agree. Someone who borrows  money may feel 
worried about repaying it. But if the loan was causing Mr R any stress or difficulty, he could  
have raised this with Clydesdale.  I cant see that he did, so I cant expect it to have done 
anything to help or support him. They have also said his income wasnt  secure as benefit  
payments can change or even be stopped. But even if hed been working and receiving a 
salary, there was no guarantee that would continue unchanged.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ws concerns over this loan. But from everything Ive seen, I dont 
think Clydesdales decision to lend to Mr R was irresponsible or that he wasnt  entitled to 
take out a loan based on his circumstances as presented. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0334930