K820x#14complaint
Mrs N has complained that NRAM Limited has been unhelpful and unsympathetic to her 
financial difficulties because it was unwilling  to agree to postpone  a court  hearing.  Mrs N is 
also unhappy that NRAM has declined to provide her with copies of the reports  made  by field 
agents in relation to their contact with her ex-husband, Mr N.
background
In 2005 Mrs N took out a mortgage  with Northern Rock (now NRAM). There  is also a related 
unsecured loan taken out at the same time. The mortgage is in the joint names of Mrs N and 
her husband, Mr N, from whom she is divorced. I am told there are still outstanding  legal  
issues in the matrimonial  proceedings  that are yet to be determined by the court.
The mortgage and unsecured loan are is currently in arrears  of over £25,000 in total.
Mrs N had previously complained to us in 2018.  She was unhappy that NRAM had refused 
to change the mortgage from repayment to interest-only. At that time we explained to Mrs N 
and to NRAM that we didnt  think it was appropriate for us to consider the complaint. Thats  
because we didnt  have Mr Ns consent  to look into it.
In March 2019 Mrs N explained  that she was unhappy that NRAM had refused  to put the 
mortgage on interest-only or to grant  any further  payment concessions. She was also 
unhappy that she has not been provided with copies of the reports  of field agents visits to 
Mr N so what she can see what contact NRAM has had with him and what (if any) resolution 
it has reached with him.
NRAM didnt uphold  the complaint so Mrs N complained to us again.  She said she knew our 
power to help her was limited, because wed already dismissed the complaint.  But she was 
no longer receiving legal aid and needed  our help. 
Mrs N explained that there was a possession hearing on 3 April 2019  which  she wanted 
postponed. Thats because there  was a family court  hearing on 16 May 2019. Mrs N was 
hoping that at that hearing Mr N would be held responsible for paying part of the mortgage. 
NRAM declined to postpone the hearing  fixed for 3 April 2019. It said it had adjourned 
several hearing dates  in order  for Mrs N to provide it with evidence  of hearings in the family  
court, which had not been forthcoming.
On 3 April 2019  the court granted a possession order which was suspended on condition 
that Mr and Mrs N pay the current monthly  instalment  and £132.26 per month off the arrears.  
The court also granted a money judgment  in favour  of NRAM for £220,811.13.
An investigator looked at the complaint. He thought it should be upheld. He noted thered 
been a previous interest-only concession. But he thought that changing the mortgage  back  
onto a repayment basis put additional  strain on Mrs N. He didnt think  NRAM had done 
enough to help Mrs N. 
The investigator said NRAM  should  have left the mortgage on an interest-only basis.  He also 
thought NRAM  should have provided Mrs N with a dedicated case handler. He thought that 
all Mrs N needed was a bit of breathing room while she got back  on her feet. But he was 
satisfied she was now able to afford the mortgage.
Ref: DRN07397492In the circumstances, the investigator asked NRAM to pay Mrs N £300  compensation. 
NRAM didnt agree. It explained that it was unable to make changes to the mortgage  without 
the consent of both parties. NRAM also pointed out that in 2018 wed dismissed the 
complaint Mrs N had brought about  NRAM refusing to make changes to the mortgage 
because we didnt  have Mr Ns consent.
provisional decision 
On 31 July 2019 I issued a provisional decision,  as follows:
I confirm Ive read everything  provided by Mrs N and NRAM, but Ive set out the 
detail of whats happened in rather less detail  than has been presented.  No 
discourtesys intended  by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and 
if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach  is 
consistent with what our enabling  legislation  requires  of me. 
This complaint arises out of unhappy  circumstances  the breakdown of a marriage. 
But the mortgage account is still in joint names.  This means  that both Mr and Mrs N 
have equal standing to bring  a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service   and 
we cant make any decision that will impact  on both parties without the consent  of 
both.
I note that we dismissed Mrs Ns complaint about  NRAM declining an interest-only 
concession in 2018 when we explained that we couldnt  look at this without Mr Ns 
consent. That position still stands. Without  Mr Ns consent, I cant tell NRAM to 
change the mortgage from repayment  to interest-only, or to reinstate a concession  
that had previously been granted.
This current complaint,  as presented to us in Mrs Ns initial call, is that NRAM was 
being unreasonable in refusing  to postpone  the possession  action  whilst  her family 
court case  was continuing. She was also unhappy  about being refused access  to 
field agents reports relating to Mr N, and at the customer service shed received.
The starting point  here is that lenders have a duty to treat all customers,  but 
particularly those facing  financial  hardship, fairly. Balanced against that, one of the 
fundamental principles  underpinning  the mortgage  contract is that a lender has the 
right to receive payment of the money  owed  to it. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (known  as 
MCOB) sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required  to do to help borrowers in 
arrears. The Council of Mortgage Lenders  (CML) also has its own guidelines about 
what it expects lenders to do to comply with MCOB, which mirror closely  the 
requirements of MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways  to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the 
problem that created  the arrears to begin  with is one that looks  to be short-term and 
capable of being resolved.
Ref: DRN07397493For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways  to help, such 
transferring a mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring 
interest for a period  of time or capitalisation of arrears.  Balanced  against that is the 
lenders obligation  to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
And, crucially, no changes can be made to the mortgage account without the consent 
of all account holders   in this case Mr and Mrs N.
So it is against this background that NRAM decided, as a last resort,  to refer the 
matter to court on 3 April 2019. It had postponed previous hearings because Mrs N 
had explained  there were  still ongoing  family court  proceedings.  But NRAM says it 
has seen no evidence of this. In the circumstances, I dont think  NRAM acted unfairly 
or unreasonably  in declining to postpone  the hearing. So Im not upholding this part 
of the complaint.
I see that both Mr and Mrs N attended the hearing on 3 April 2019. Im satisfied 
Mrs N had the opportunity  to ask the court to adjourn the hearing pending the 
upcoming family court hearing. Instead  the court granted a possession order in which  
it has set the terms upon which the arears are to be repaid. If Mrs N is unhappy  with 
that, shell need to go back to court. I dont  have any power to interfere with a court  
order.
Ive looked at what NRAM has done  to engage  with Mrs N about  her arrears. Im 
satisfied NRAM has complied with MCOB and CML obligations,  as its required to do. 
It also has staff in specialist departments  trained to help customers  in arrears  and/or 
who are vulnerable or ill, over the telephone  (NRAM  does  not have a branch network  
for customers to attend in person.). Theres been  a considerable  amount of 
engagement between  Mrs N and NRAM in relation to her circumstances and the 
arrears.
I know Mrs N wants a dedicated case handler  who could work one-to-one with her. 
Where NRAM  is required  to make reasonable adjustments  for consumers with 
disabilities, its sometimes appropriate  for there to be a single point of contact.  But 
its up to NRAM to decide how to organise  its case-handlers to work with its other 
customers. I dont have the power to tell NRAM to appoint a single member of staff to 
work on Mrs Ns case. 
But Im satisfied NRAMs account notes are clear, and that its staff (who are trained 
in this kind of work)  would  be able to see quickly from the notes the position on the 
account and the information about  Mrs Ns personal  and financial situation. 
Mrs N has no right to see the field agents  reports of any discussions with Mr N 
without his consent. This would be a breach of Mr Ns rights under the General Data  
Protection Regulation (GDPR). I appreciate Mrs N feels  aggrieved  at this but NRAM 
has done nothing  wrong in refusing her access to Mr Ns personal information.  Its 
worth mentioning that, had the position  been reversed, Mr N would have no right of 
access to reports of field agents visits to Mrs N.  But if Mrs N feels she is entitled to 
information about Mr N and that NRAM has unreasonably  refused her access to this, 
she is free to complaint about it to the Information Commissioners Office.
I dont doubt that this has been a difficult time for Mrs N and that her personal 
circumstances have  been stressful. But the extent to which NRAM is able to help her 
Ref: DRN07397494is hampered by the fact that Mr N remains  on the mortgage account.  Because of this, 
NRAM has to treat both parties equally and is unable to make any changes to the 
mortgage which might  impact on both parties  unless the other party  has consented. 
Likewise, we are unable to favour one borrower  over the other  where only one brings  
a complaint to us.
I am told that Mrs N and NRAM are due to discuss a transfer of the mortgage into her 
sole name very shortly. This will, I understand, require a full assessment of Mrs Ns 
financial circumstances and an affordability  check,  in line with MCOB.
But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded  on the basis of what Ive seen so far  
that NRAM has treated  Mrs N unfairly.  This means  that Im not going to order  NRAM 
to pay any compensation.
Because this isnt the same outcome as the investigator reached, Mrs N and NRAM 
have the opportunity to provide me with any further  information or arguments. At this 
point I will say that there is no need for the parties to repeat any arguments theyve 
already made or send  us documents  theyve previously sent us. These  are already 
on file.
But I do require NRAM to let me know the outcome of the application to remove  Mr N 
from the mortgage account.
In addition to anything else she might want to say, I would like Mrs N to provide me 
with copies of the court  orders in the family  proceedings, together  with a letter  from 
her solicitors  setting out the current situation and the timescale for resolution  of any 
issues between her and Mr N in relation to the property subject to the mortgage with 
NRAM.
responses to the provisional  decision
NRAM responded to confirm that the account  was in arrears  by approximately£20,500 on 
the main mortgage  and £4,700 on the related unsecured loan. Because of the arrears,  
NRAM was unable to agree  to Mrs Ns request  to remove Mr N from the mortgage account.
Mrs N has responded in detail and I confirm  Ive listened to all her telephone calls with the 
investigator, both before  and after my provisional decision was issued. Although Mrs N was 
initially optimistic that Mr N might join in the complaint, his consent was not forthcoming.
Mrs N has reiterated her frustrations with her ex-husband  and what she perceives as his 
attempts to thwart her wish to remain in the property  with their children. 
Mrs N maintains that NRAM didnt treat her fairly  when it declined  to allow a temporary 
interest-only concession  to be extended.  Mrs N thinks  NRAM should  have allowed this 
without Mr Ns consent. 
Mrs N also insists that she is entitled to see the field agents reports of its contact with Mr N.
Although Mrs N was asked in my provisional decision to supply an update  about  the current 
position on the matrimonial  proceedings, this has not been provided. I note Mrs N was in 
court recently in those proceedings but she has provided  no information about  what 
happened.
Ref: DRN07397495my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will say first that I have considerably sympathy for the position in which Mrs N has found 
herself. Before joining  the Financial Ombudsman  Service I was a family law solicitor. Im 
very familiar  with the situation  she is in. So I completely understand Mrs Ns frustration that 
Mr N has, as she tells us, been obstructive  and manipulative.  
Neither NRAM nor the Financial Ombudsman Service  has any control or influence  over the 
issues that are still outstanding between Mr and Mrs N arising from their divorce. And I think 
I need to explain  that, even if Mr N had joined in the complaint, this wouldnt result  in me 
issuing a decision about whether or not NRAM should transfer the mortgage  onto interest-
only. Thats  a decision for NRAM  to make, if both borrowers want  it and they meet NRAMs 
criteria. 
If both Mr and Mrs N wanted  the mortgage  transferred  onto interest-only  either temporarily  
or permanently  and NRAM declined the request, then Mr and Mrs N would be able to 
complain that their request had been turned down if they thought  the decision was unfair.  
The question of whether NRAM should  grant  a further interest-only  concession is not an 
issue that forms part of this complaint. I can only apologise to Mrs N that she was given the 
impression by the investigator that wed be able to tell NRAM to do this. 
It was entirely appropriate to ask NRAM if it was prepared to grant  another  interest-only 
concession. But once  NRAM clarified  with the investigator that it couldnt make any change 
to the mortgage  without  both parties consent (which Mrs N was aware of, following our 
dismissal of her complaint  in July 2018), this should  have been  explained to Mrs N. So Im 
very sorry Mrs N was given false hope that we could tell NRAM do this for her when the 
position hadnt changed from July 2018 and was never likely to without Mr Ns agreement. 
This is not, as was suggested, a grey  area. But I fully acknowledge Mrs Ns distress and 
disappointment when it was clarified in the provisional decision  why NRAM couldnt change  
the mortgage without Mr Ns agreement after shed been led to believe that this was 
possible.
With this in mind, having listened to the conversations between  Mrs N and the investigator, I 
think the complaint  has been somewhat derailed  by the peripheral  issues around  Mrs Ns 
wish to have another  interest-only concession which, as I have explained above, doesnt  
form part of this complaint  and isnt something that its appropriate  for us to consider in any 
event. So I will bring the complaint  back  on track and focus on the issues I am able to 
consider in this final decision.
What I am looking at in this final decision  are the two issues Mrs N complained  to us about in 
March 2019:
that NRAM acted unfairly  in failing to postpone a possession  hearing in April 2019  
pending the outcome of her matrimonial proceedings;
that NRAM had refused to give her field agents  reports detailing  contact with Mr N.
Ref: DRN07397496refusal to cancel the possession hearing:  NRAM has asked Mrs N several times to 
provide it with information about the court  proceedings  between  herself  and Mr N. Mrs N has 
failed to supply  either  NRAM or the Financial  Ombudsman Service  with any information  
about the court hearing in May 2019,  nor any other update about whats  happening with the 
matrimonial finances and property. I note that NRAM also said in its initial  submissions to us 
that, despite Mrs N claiming  there were upcoming  court hearings between  her and Mr N over 
a period of time (as a result of which  NRAM postponed taking action on the mortgage), no 
evidence of this was ever provided.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that NRAM didnt treat Mrs N unfairly when it refused to 
postpone the possession hearing in April 2019 because of a pending hearing in the 
matrimonial proceedings the following month. There were no proposals to clear the arrears  
and Mrs N had failed  to provide NRAM  with any evidence of what was happening  in the 
proceedings between her and Mr N. 
Mrs N has pointed out that Mr N didnt attend the possession hearing on 3 April 2019. The 
court order  suggests  that he did. But nothing turns on this. As NRAM hadnt agreed to 
adjourn the hearing of 3 April 2019,  it was open to Mrs N to ask the court to do this on the 
day. 
In the circumstances, and particularly given  Mrs Ns continuing failure to provide any 
information about her matrimonial proceedings, I dont think NRAM acted unreasonably 
when it declined to adjourn the hearing on 3 April 2019.
field agents reports:  Mrs N has maintained her position that she believes  she is entitled to 
see the reports of field agents who were instructed by NRAM to contact  Mr N and discuss  
the mortgage with him. But Mr N hasnt consented  to this. Without Mr Ns permission I dont 
think it would  be fair or reasonable  to order NRAM to divulge those  reports to Mrs N. In any 
event, were it to do so, NRAM would be in breach  of GDPR
For the reasons  given  above, I havent changed my mind about the outcome of this 
complaint. I dont think NRAM has treated Mrs N unfairly or unreasonably. I know  this isnt 
the outcome Mrs N was hoping for. But the problems  Mrs N has had with the mortgage are 
as a result  of the ongoing issues between her and Mr N.
Ultimately if no agreement  can be reached  between Mr and Mrs N over whats going to 
happen with the house and the mortgage, Mrs N will need  to ask the court to decide this. 
And I feel I must explain  that, even if the court  in the matrimonial proceedings was to order  
that the house should be transferred to Mrs N, this isnt binding  on NRAM. This means that 
NRAM would be under no obligation to release  Mr N from the mortgage if Mrs N wasnt  able 
to meet  NRAMs criteria to have the mortgage  in her sole name.  Im explaining this because  
I dont want Mrs N to be under any misapprehension about what  the court in her divorce  
case can do in relation to this mortgage.
I will end by saying that I sincerely hope  Mrs N is able to resolve  her difficulties  with Mr N 
and that a solution is reached in relation to the property which  is satisfactory for all parties.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN07397497Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0739749