K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc failed to investigate her claim that she 
was a victim  of identity  fraud.
background
Mrs B has a current  account with NatWest  (although  I understand that the account is about  
to be closed). She says that in 2016 her debit  card was stolen from her car and used to 
make fraudulent purchases, leaving her overdrawn. She says that later on, a second  card 
was stolen from her handbag  and a replacement card with her name on it was substituted. 
The substitute card had her forged signature  on the back. Why and how someone might  do 
this has not been explained.  She says the fraudster took out loans in her name. Finally, she 
says that her online banking facility has also been  compromised by a fraudster.
Mrs B suspects that her neighbours  may be responsible, as her mail is delivered to a 
communal area where it could be intercepted.  However, she has also suspected  members  of 
staff at local branches of NatWest, and also the staff in a local baguette shop who she says 
stole some  evidence she was about  to send  to our Service.
Mrs B asked NatWest to refund the fraudulent  purchases.  NatWest  told her that she would 
have to speak  on the phone to its fraud  department, as this was the only way to initiate  a 
fraud claim. She says she did phone the bank, and also visited  her local branch, but found 
that the branch staff were  uncooperative. She brought her complaint to our Service  in 
August 2017,  and asked for her money  to be refunded, her credit file amended,  her online 
banking to be cancelled,  and for a new debit card.
NatWest says it has no record  of Mrs B raising a fraud claim in a phone call. It says she only 
kept visiting her local branch and trying to discuss it there. NatWest said the only phone  calls 
it has a record of are calls in which she complained  about overdraft  charges, or calls in 
which she mentioned  the frauds but ended  the calls without speaking to the fraud  
department. NatWest insisted that it could not assist Mrs B unless she was willing to speak 
to the fraud department, but it was still willing to assist her on those terms. It did however 
end her online banking  facility in July 2017 (shortly before she complained to our Service).
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He said (in February 2018) that NatWest had 
given Mrs B some phone numbers on which she could call its fraud department,  but she had 
never done so. He thought it was reasonable of NatWest to expect Mrs B to speak to its 
fraud department on the phone and give further details about the incidents and about which 
transactions she was challenging.  There was no record of her ever having done  that, so he 
provided her with the relevant phone  numbers again. He didnt think NatWest had done  
anything wrong, since  it would be too hard for the bank to investigate her claims until she 
told it which transactions she disputed. He encouraged her to approach  the Citizens  Advice  
Bureau (CAB) for help.
Mrs B did not accept that opinion, and asked for her complaint  to be looked  at again. She 
explained her case to the CAB, which wrote a letter to our Service  clearly explaining her 
complaint (but the CAB does not represent  her in this complaint). This complaint was later 
passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN07017462my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am grateful to the CAB for its helpful 
letter.
I would like to take this opportunity to apologise  to Mrs B for how long it has taken  our 
Service to give her a final decision, and to thank her for her considerable patience while 
shes been waiting.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mrs B, but I do not uphold this complaint. I dont think it was 
unreasonable of NatWest  to say that Mrs B could only raise a fraud  claim by speaking to its 
fraud department on the phone. I appreciate  that Mrs B says she did do that, but Ive seen 
NatWests complaint record and customer contact records,  and there  is no record of that 
phone call having been made.  I accept  that it is possible that such  a phone call could  still 
have been made and that it just hasnt  been properly recorded for some  reason, but I think  it 
is more likely that Mrs B is referring to one of the calls she made  when she spoke to 
NatWests call handler about the fraud  but then ended the call before she was put through to 
the fraud department. There seem to have  been  a number of calls in which  that happened, 
according to the banks  records.  NatWests notes of the calls indicate  that Mrs B kept 
expressing a preference to discuss the fraud  in her local branch or in writing.  Its perfectly  
reasonable of her to prefer to discuss the fraud  in those ways, but I still think its reasonable 
of NatWest to insist that she discuss the matter with its fraud  department. After all, that is the 
logical department to speak to, since it specialises in handling fraud claims.
I appreciate that Mrs B thought the branch staff were unhelpful, but I dont think they meant 
to be. I think they only meant that they were not in a position to help her very much,  since  
NatWests policy is that fraud  claims are supposed  to be dealt with by its fraud department  
and not by branch staff. Since Mrs B has apparently alleged that branch staff had been  
stealing her debit cards and statements,  Im sure she will understand why that is a sensible 
policy. However, I have not seen  any evidence to suggest that the branch staff were  really  
doing anything  like that.
Nevertheless, NatWests fraud  department still did what it could. It cancelled Mrs Bs online 
banking at her request.  Also new debit cards  had been issued to her in April,  July and 
September 2016. So I think NatWest  did still try to help her as much  as it could.
NatWest is still willing  to investigate Mrs Bs fraud claim if she phones its fraud department  
and goes through which transactions she is disputing. It may help her to have her bank 
statement to hand  when she calls, and to mark which payments and withdrawals she 
disputes before she starts the call, to make it easier.  The fraud departments numbers are 
0345 307 0009 or 0800 161 5152 (free from landlines). Their opening hours  are Monday to 
Friday from 8am to 10pm, Saturday from 8am to 6pm, and Sunday from 9am to 8pm.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN07017463Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0701746