K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Society  of Lloyds cancelled his commercial motor  insurance policy  
from the start (voided it) and declined his claim. Hes also unhappy that it disposed of his 
vans salvage and his equipment.
background
Mr M made a claim on his policy and Lloyds  discovered that he had a previous  criminal  
conviction that he hadnt disclosed when  he took out the policy. It said it wouldnt  have 
offered cover if it had known about  this. So it voided  the policy, declined the claim and 
returned Mr Ms premiums. Lloyds said it tried to return Mr Ms van and equipment to him, 
but he didnt make the necessary arrangements. So it sold the salvage and paid this amount 
to Mr M. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Lloyds 
had asked Mr M a clear question about  previous convictions which  hed answered  
incorrectly. He thought cover wouldnt have been offered if Mr M had answered  correctly. So 
he thought it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to void the policy and decline the claim.  He 
thought it had reasonably refunded Mr Ms premiums. The investigator thought Lloyds had 
made reasonable attempts to contact Mr M to return his van to him before arranging to 
dispose of it. 
Mr M replied that hed offered Lloyds three dates when the van could be dropped off to him. 
He said hed lost valuable personal belongings as a result of the disposal. He also said he 
was no longer complaining about the voidance.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has now told us that hes no longer complaining about the voidance of his policy,  but I 
will consider  this briefly. I can see that Lloyds  asked Mr M a clear question  about criminal 
convictions when  he took out the policy which he answered incorrectly.  I can see evidence  
from its underwriters  that it wouldnt have offered cover if hed declared this. So, I think  that 
under the relevant legislation Mr M misrepresented information important to Lloyds. And so I 
think it was entitled  to void his policy and decline his claim. I think it was fair and reasonable 
for Lloyds  to then return his premiums. So I cant say Lloyds did anything  wrong on this 
point. 
Mr M was unhappy that Lloyds disposed of his vans salvage and his possessions.  Our 
approach is that when  a van is written off and deemed a total loss under a motor insurance 
policy, as Mr Ms van was Lloyds becomes the owner of the salvage only after the claim is 
settled. 
Our stance  is that if the consumer asks to keep the salvage, we would expect the insurer  to 
allow this. The van is, after all, the consumer's property  and they should have the right to 
keep it if they wish to do so. However,  in that event,  the insurer is entitled to deduct from its 
settlement offer what  it would have been able to sell the salvage  for. 
Ref: DRN09789372In Mr Ms case, however, the claim wasnt settled.  It was declined. So Mr M retained  
ownership and wed expect Lloyds to return his van to him. So Ive looked at the evidence to 
see what attempts were  made to do this before  the van was disposed of to see if Lloyds  
acted fairly  and reasonably. 
Mr M told us that he worked  in remote locations  with poor phone reception. So he said hed 
told Lloyds his preferred method of contact  was email. Mr M said hed offered Lloyds three  
dates when the van could be dropped back to him. Ive seen evidence  that Mr M provided 
three dates  to Lloyds.  
Mr M sent us an email chain of his communications about the vans return. Lloyds said its 
agent told him the first date and time wasnt suitable. Mr M doesnt appear to have  received 
this message as he said he had someone  waiting to meet the van. Ive seen that Mr M 
complained to Lloyds that hed had a friend waiting for the van but it didnt  arrive.  He also 
said hed been  speaking to the driver  on the phone, but I havent seen evidence  of this. 
After this first date couldnt  be arranged, Lloyds emailed Mr M to say it was now a month  
since the voidance  and it hadnt been able to arrange the vans return. It acknowledged that 
Mr M was on holiday  and agreed to extend the time before it disposed  of the van. It asked 
Mr M to nominate a date in a specified  week after he returned when the van could be 
returned to him or a nominee. 
I can see that Mr M replied to the sender of this email giving a specific date, time and place. 
This was acknowledged  and the agent said he would now make  the arrangements.  But the 
next email in the chain is from Mr M two weeks later again contacting the same  agent 
complaining that hed had no confirmation from him. Mr M said hed tried calling the agent 
and the salvage company. He later told us that he couldnt get through.  He emailed  again  
asked for confirmation  so that he could make  the needed arrangements. 
Two weeks later, the agent  said that he still hadnt  heard  from Mr M and gave another 
extension. He noted that Mr M had his email and phone number. Mr M emailed back to give 
a third date and time when he was available for the vans return. 
Lloyds said its salvage agents tried to contact Mr M to make  arrangements  for the second 
date, but Mr M didnt respond. Lloyds said it then offered to drop the van to a local garage.  
Ive seen the letter it sent Mr M about this. Lloyds  said it also emailed this to Mr M. But Mr M 
didnt respond.  
Lloyds said it then wrote  and emailed to Mr M giving him 14 days  notice that it would 
dispose of the van. Ive seen that these were sent to the correct  addresses.  But three 
months later, Mr M sent a final email  to the agent who said he was Mr Ms contact saying 
that he still wanted the van returned. Clearly Mr M wasnt  receiving Lloyds communications.  
I can see that Mr M gave Lloyds three specific times  when his van could be delivered to him. 
Lloyds was evidently aware  of the first date as it said the salvage agent couldnt meet this. 
But I cant see that it received Mr Ms two further dates. I cant  see copies of these emails 
from Mr M in its file. And I cant  see that Mr M received all the emails and letters that Lloyds  
sent him although  I can see they were correctly  addressed. Mr M said he was directed to 
email one particular  agent. And I think he did this. 
Ref: DRN09789373But I can also see that Mr Ms work  arrangements made contact with him difficult at times. I 
think Lloyds tried to contact him by his preferred method. It tried to accommodate  Mr Ms 
availability. It warned  him frequently that it couldnt keep the van indefinitely and that it would 
have to dispose of the van if a return couldnt  be arranged. It extended the time it kept it by 
39 days before giving Mr M 14 days notice that it would dispose of the salvage.  So I think  
Lloyds took reasonable  steps  to try to return Mr Ms van to him before disposing of it. 
So I think both sides were  at fault in not making  the necessary arrangements for the vans  
return. The claim was declined and so I think Lloyds  wasnt required to pay Mr M the market  
value of the van and his equipment. I think it needed  to pay him the vans  salvage value, 
almost £500, which I can see it has done. So I dont require Lloyds to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0978937