K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains about the way that TSB Bank plc has dealt  with the joint account that she 
holds with her former husband and about  the information that its recorded  on her credit file.
background
Ms R and her former husband have a joint account with TSB which  is overdrawn. Ms R and 
her former husband divorced in March  2016  and Ms R says that it was agreed as part of 
their divorce settlement that her former  husband would be responsible  for the debt.
TSB defaulted the account in March  2015 but, in response to a complaint from Ms R and her 
former husband, it credited £317.97 to the account (which  was a refund of the interest and 
fees that it had applied  to the account between October 2014 - when the last credit  was 
made to the account  and the date that the account  was passed to its recoveries team). 
The account  was then correctly shown as defaulted  with a debt of £2,924.97  with one credit 
reference agency but was incorrectly shown as settled in March 2015 with two other credit 
reference agencies.  Ms R says that she didnt become aware that there  was an outstanding 
balance on the account or that a default  was recorded with a credit reference agency  until 
after she applied for a mortgage  in 2017. She complained to TSB and it amended  the 
information recorded with the credit reference  agencies  to show that the account had been 
defaulted in March 2015. It apologised  for the problems  that this had caused to Ms R and it 
offered to pay her £500 compensation for the distress and upset. It also said that, if Ms Rs 
mortgage application was declined as a result of this situation and shed been charged a fee 
by her mortgage broker, it would reimburse those costs. TSB didnt accept Ms Rs offer of 
£1,000 to settle the debt  but it said that it would accept a 70% settlement (which would be 
£2,047.50).
Ms R didnt accept TSBs offer and complained  to this service. The investigator  didnt 
recommend that this complaint should  be upheld. He said that the agreement between  Ms R 
and her former husband about responsibility  for the joint account wasnt legally binding on 
TSB as it wasnt a party to that agreement  and as long as the account has an outstanding  
balance on it he said that they are both responsible for the debt. But he said that he couldnt 
consider that issue further because Ms Rs former husband wasnt a party to the complaint 
and hadnt consented to the complaint about  the joint account. 
And the investigator  believed that TSBs offer of £500 for the distress and upset, along with 
the refund  of any fees that had been  lost in the unsuccessful mortgage application and 
Ms Rs credit  file being updated correctly was fair and reasonable for the error that it had 
made. 
Ms R has asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that:
prior to March 2015 her former husband  lost his job and she was also out of work but 
TSB did nothing to help - but in the preceding twelve months it had been more than 
willing to hand  out additional  credit cards and up their overdraft which was 
irresponsible;
her other creditors were very helpful  but TSB accepted payments of £75 in February  
and March but closed the current  account  and defaulted it without telling her that it 
was doing so; 
Ref: DRN01535202she complained  to TSB and heard nothing but her debt was then shown as settled on 
her credit  file with one credit reference agency and she heard nothing more about  it 
so she assumed that the debt had been  written-off;
creditors have a legal responsibility to assist  when  a customer  has problems and to 
lend responsibly  - but TSB did neither; 
she remained in the marital home from April 2015 to July 2016 (which was the 
address on TSBs file for the debt)  but she didnt receive any further correspondence 
or contact from TSB about the debt;
TSB failed to correct  information with two credit  reference agencies  which  showed  a 
better rating than what was her true credit rating  its now been corrected and her 
credit rating is in the toilet;
had she known that the debt was still outstanding she wouldve dealt with it back in 
2015 and also ensured, if necessary, that TSB was party  to the agreement  made  with 
her former husband;
when her marriage ended she had over £10,000 of debts and all but a few hundred  
pounds of that has been paid off and, until she became aware  of the issues  with 
TSB, she had a better  than average  credit rating;
TSB offered her £500 compensation and she offered £1,000 towards her debt  and 
she asks why that was unacceptable;  and
she only became a second name  on the account on the advice of a TSB branch 
manager due to living in an environment of domestic violence where she was 
screamed at and had things thrown  at her if she couldnt deal with the calls from 
creditors.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R has complained about an account which she holds jointly  with her former husband. 
This service would normally require both parties  to a joint account to sign a complaint form 
or consent to a complaint  about a joint account  being made to us. But where a spouse has 
been the victim of domestic violence we are able to accept a complaint about a joint account  
without the consent of the other spouse. Ms R says that shes  been  the victim of domestic  
violence and that she wont  be able to get her former husbands consent to the complaint. In 
these circumstances  I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for me to consider 
Ms Rs complaint about the joint account  even though her former husband  hasnt consented 
to the complaint.
Ms R and her former husband have a joint account with TSB.  Ms R says that her name was 
only added  to the account at the suggestion of a TSB branch manger because of difficulties 
that she was having  with her former  husband  about the account. But Ive seen no evidence  
to show that the account was only used by her former husband or that the overdraft on the 
joint account has arisen only because of her former  husbands use of the account. 
Ms R and her husband separated in November  2014 and they both signed  a separation 
agreement in March  2016. The separation agreement says:
The parties further  agree  that all debts  in their individual names shall remain  as such  
and payable by the person whose name is on the account.   
Ref: DRN01535203The separation agreement doesnt refer to the joint account. Ms R says that she and her 
former husband had agreed that he would  be responsible for the joint account. But that isnt 
set out in the terms of the separation agreement and Ive seen  no other evidence to show  
that Ms Rs former husband had agreed  to be responsible for the joint account. 
So Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence  to show  that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require TSB to release Ms R from liability  for the joint account. Ms R 
and her husband had complained to TSB about  the account  and it sent its final response to 
them in April 2015 (nearly  five months after they had separated). It said that they hadnt 
made the agreed credits to the account  and that it hadnt been possible  to agree a 
repayment agreement  so it had closed the account. But it credited £317.97 to the account  
(which was a refund  of the interest and fees that it had applied  to the account between 
October 2014 - when  the last credit  was made to the account   and the date that the account 
was passed to its recoveries team). 
I consider that Ms R was aware,  or ought to have been aware,  at that time of the status  of 
the account and that it was overdrawn.  Ive seen no evidence to show that TSB had agreed 
to write-off the debt on the account or that the debt was repaid by Ms Rs former husband. 
Ms R says that shes received no communication about the account  from TSB and that she 
assumed that the debt had been  written-off.  But Ive seen no evidence to show that she 
sought confirmation of that from TSB.  And I consider that Ms R remains  jointly  liable for the 
debt on the joint account.
TSB accepts that the account was incorrectly shown as settled in March  2015 with two credit 
reference agencies.  When Ms R complained to TSB it amended the incorrect  information 
recorded with those credit reference agencies to show  that the account had been defaulted 
in March 2015. It apologised for the problems that this had caused to Ms R and it offered to 
pay her £500 compensation for the distress and upset. Ms R said that she found out about 
the incorrect information when she applied for a mortgage. TSB said that, if Ms Rs mortgage  
application was declined as a result  of this situation  and shed  been  charged a fee by her 
mortgage broker, it would reimburse those costs.  
The incorrect information that TSB had recorded  was better  than the true and correct 
information that it shouldve recorded.  So Im not persuaded that the information will have 
had an adverse impact  on Ms R and TSB has corrected  that information  to show  that the 
account was defaulted in March 2015.  TSBs errors  will have  caused  distress and 
inconvenience to Ms R. But I consider that its apology and its offer of £500 compensation 
and to reimburse mortgage costs was a fair and reasonable response  to the distress and 
inconvenience that Ms R has been  caused. So Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require TSB to pay a higher amount of compensation to Ms R than it 
has offered to her  or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
Ms R has offered TSB £1,000 to settle  the debt  but it said that it would accept a 70% 
settlement (which would  be £2,047.50). A bank is required to respond to a customers 
financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. That doesnt mean  that its obliged  to 
accept Ms Rs offer - or to take any other particular action - as whats appropriate in each 
case will depend on the customers individual circumstances. And Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that TSB hasnt responded to Ms Rs financial difficulties 
positively and sympathetically. 
Ms R now says that TSBs lending to her and her former husband was irresponsible  and that 
it shouldnt have increased their overdraft  limit or given  them  additional credit cards. But that 
Ref: DRN01535204didnt form part of her complaint  to TSB or to this service. So Im unable  to consider it as part 
of this complaint.  If Ms R wants to complain that TSBs lending  to her and her former 
husband was irresponsible  she should  first complain to TSB and then - if shes  not satisfied 
with its response  she may be able to make a separate  complaint about that issue  to this 
service.
I sympathise with Ms R for the marital  difficulties,  domestic violence and other issues that 
shes suffered  and for the financial difficulties  that shes experienced. But I consider  that 
TSB had responded to her complaint  fairly and reasonably.  If Ms R now wishes  to accept 
TSBs offer of compensation she should contact  it to see if the offer remains available  to her.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019. 
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0153520