K822xComplaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plcs (BoS) action towards  him over the last three 
years has been unfair, unreasonable  and vexatious,  causing him financial damage and 
hardship.
Background 
In 2006 Mr W took out a mortgage with BoS for approximately £200,000, over 25 years,  on 
an interest only basis. BoSs records show that this was a buy-to-let mortgage.
At times since the mortgage began, Mr W experienced  financial difficulty  and fell behind on 
payments. BoS previously  helped Mr W by agreeing  to capitalise the arrears  on the account 
 most recently in 2013.  Since then, Mr W fell into arrears and asked BoS if it would 
capitalise again. BoS asked Mr W for an income  and expenditure statement  so it could 
assess affordability. Mr W refused  to complete an income and expenditure statement 
because he thinks it will show  his payments are not affordable, due to his self-employed 
income being irregular. BoS has told us it wont consider  capitalising Mr Ws arrears without 
him providing details  of his income and expenditure. It says it needs this to ensure it is 
providing the correct  solution.
BoS appointed a receiver to visit Mr Ws property, which it did, or attempted to do, a number 
of times. BoSs records say the receiver was instructed to establish any 
tenancy/payment/rental agreement.
BoS confirmed  it would not consent  to us looking  into complaint points that hadnt been 
brought by Mr W and so werent addressed in BoSs final response letters. Our investigator 
deduced that we could  therefore consider the following under this complaint:
Whether it was reasonable for BoS to require  an assessment of affordability to 
consolidate arrears  on Mr Ws account.
Whether it was reasonable to send a Law Property Act Receiver (LPA) to Mr Ws 
property.
Whether the arrears  markers on Mr Ws credit file have been  applied correctly.
Our investigator said she thinks it fair that BoS carries out an income and expenditure 
assessment before it agrees  to capitalise Mr Ws arrears. This is because  it needs to be 
satisfied that the increase in contractual mortgage  payment is affordable  now and in the 
future.
With regard to the appointment of LPA receivers, our investigator said BoS was reasonable 
in its actions. This was because shed found  that BoS were unable  to come to a suitable 
arrangement to repay the arrears  without reviewing Mr Ws circumstances, including  his 
income and expenditure.
  
Our investigator found that some  of the arrears  entries on Mr Ws credit file disagreed with 
her interpretation of BoSs own records. Specifically, the credit file didnt  reflect all the dates 
when an arrangement to pay was in place. She asked BoS to correct  the credit  file in respect 
of the months  in question.  
BoS conducted a review  of those months and found  that all but two of the credit  file entries 
were correct and agreed to amend  those.  It gave an explanation of what had happened  in 
Ref: DRN07691842each month. It said, while there  were  agreements in place for each of these months,  the 
agreement was broken  when  Mr W didnt pay on time (BoS says it gave several days  
leeway). So, the credit information it submitted in those months was the number of months in 
arrears  not an arrangement to pay marker.  Our investigator reviewed the evidence and 
found that BoSs explanation was correct.
Mr W disagreed  with the findings of our investigator and asked for his complaint  to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
Mr W has also submitted  an extensive letter outlining the circumstances of another  
complaint considered by this Service, which, he says, hes provided to give a sense of his 
mitigating circumstances. He says hes always  told BoS as much  as he has felt comfortable  
with. And he says he has a proven track record of payment over the last three years,  so an 
income and expenditure assessment should not be BoSs  only criteria for capitalising 
arrears. The last three years have  included two Bank of England rate rises that BoS didnt 
insist on affordability assessments before  implementing.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
As mentioned above, Mr W submitted a letter  and attachments  as part of his response to our 
investigators findings. Ive considered Mr Ws further submissions.  While I accept that his 
letter gives  me more  of an understanding of his wider circumstances, it doesnt relate directly 
to this complaint.  In my consideration of this complaint I have thought  about  whether the 
circumstances Mr W describes  as mitigating  should influence the outcome. But Ive not 
considered and will not comment on anything solely relating to the separate  insurance 
complaint on which  this Service has already given a final decision.  Ive also not considered 
and will not comment on the criticism  of this Service referred to in Mr Ws letter,  or any 
matters that Mr W has mentioned after bringing his complaint to this service  and so not 
addressed by BoS. 
I also agree  with our investigators summary  of what should be considered under this 
complaint, as outlined  in the background section above. So, for clarity, Ive considered:
Whether it was reasonable for BoS to require  an assessment of affordability to 
consolidate arrears  on Mr Ws account.
Whether it was reasonable to send a Law Property Act Receiver (LPA) to Mr Ws 
property.
Whether the arrears  markers on Mr Ws credit file have been  applied correctly.
The requirement of an affordability assessment
Mr W says an assessment of his income  and expenditure  will be detrimental to his 
application for the capitalisation of mortgage arrears because  of the inconsistent nature of 
his self-employed  income. But he does have a good payment record over the last three 
years, so he says this should be enough  to show he can afford  future payments. He also 
says income and expenditure assessments arent carried out when his payments change  
due to a Bank of England  base rate change,  so they shouldnt  for consolidation.
Ref: DRN07691843BoSs income and expenditure form says that only monthly income should be stated and 
explains what to do if the customers  income  isnt paid by calendar month. The example it 
gives is for someone paid four weekly  the income  should be divided  by four to give a 
weekly figure, multiplied by 52 for an annual figure  and then divided by 12 to get a calendar 
monthly figure to add to the form.
Mr W could apply this principle to his own income  work out what  he earns  over the course 
of a year and divide  that figure  by 12. I think that would  be a reliable and practical way of   
Mr W showing what he earns so that an income  and expenditure assessment can be carried  
out. So, I dont  agree that BoSs insistence  that he completes an income  and expenditure 
form is unreasonable or that the assessment would show his ability to pay the resultant 
contractual monthly payment  in a bad light. Instead,  I think the opposite is true  it would 
give BoS a good idea of whether  the plan was affordable and sustainable.
Ive also seen from BoSs documented  process and criteria that it uses  a separate internal 
department for its assessment of applications for consolidation from the self-employed. This 
suggests to me that it takes  into account the irregular  nature  of self-employed earnings  when  
carrying out such assessments.
Im satisfied from the evidence provided that an assessment  of income  is now part of BoSs  
criteria for arrears capitalisation, even though it wasnt previously.  So, I think  BoS isnt 
treating Mr Ws application unfairly. I also think its reasonable for BoS to expect to be 
satisfied that any significant increase to a borrowers contractual monthly payment (CMP) is 
sustainably affordable. While an income  and expenditure  assessment may reassure BoS of 
sustainable affordability, I can understand why his payment track record  may not  it doesnt 
take account of the increase to the CMP. If Mr W had been  maintaining  his CMP plus a 
higher amount each month,  it may have demonstrated that he could afford  to make the 
higher payments that capitalisation  would result in. But as I cant  see hes done that, Im not 
satisfied BoS are acting  unfairly by wanting to ensure Mr W can afford it before committing 
him to a higher CMP in the long term.
I understand Mr Ws concern about  a lack of an affordability check  when interest  rates 
change. But I dont think the two issues are the same. I say that because interest rate 
changes are an accepted factor when agreeing to a variable  rate mortgage. If a borrower  
wants a fixed rate, its stable nature will be a factor dictating the level at which the rate is set. 
So, in effect,  the borrower would be agreeing to pay more for this at the beginning of the 
contract, rather than if interest rates rise later.  When assessing affordability,  lenders do take 
potential rate rises into account.
Mr W is asking  BoS to increase the capital outstanding on his mortgage loan, so I think its 
reasonable that, like new borrowing, BoS satisfies itself that its sustainably affordable.
Mr W also says his wider  circumstances are mitigating so his application  should  be treated 
differently. Hes submitted  an extensive letter outlining much of what  he and his family has 
been through  though  BoS hasnt had the opportunity to consider this. While  I can see from 
his submission that hes been through  a very difficult time, and I sincerely sympathise with 
his situation, I dont agree that this should necessarily compel BoS to treat his application  
differently. I say that because I think its still reasonable that BoS satisfies  itself that the 
capitalisation would be sustainably affordable.
BoS hasnt had the opportunity to assess the affordability of Mr Ws application with the 
benefit of a completed income and expenditure questionnaire. So, I cant say what  the 
Ref: DRN07691844outcome would be or whether BoS would consider his application more favourably in light of 
Mr Ws wider circumstances. But I understand it is still willing to consider the application, 
should Mr W provide details of his income and expenditure. So, I dont think  it has acted 
unreasonably in this regard.
Law Property Act (LPA) receiver
Ive seen that BoS issued two letters before the receiver visited Mr Ws property in 
December 2018.  A credit  report from August 2019  shows that Mr W was in arrears of 
approximately six months leading up to the point of the visit. And the letters  preceding the 
visit request that Mr W contacts BoS to make an arrangement  to pay. Under  those 
circumstances I think its reasonable that BoS explores a different way of making meaningful  
contact with Mr W. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ws mortgage  say BoS can appoint  LPA receivers under 
similar circumstances. So, I dont think BoS has acted unfairly  here. Having seen a copy of 
the report from the visit, I think the information  sought was appropriate for a buy to let 
mortgage in payment arrears.
Arrears markers  on Mr Ws credit file
I understand Mr Ws concern that arrears markers  incorrectly added to his credit  file would 
affect his ability to obtain credit. In particular, hes concerned that arrears are showing in 
months where he had an arrangement to pay. So, Ive carefully considered  all the months 
that BoS maintains it has correctly reported  information to credit  reference agencies. 
Mr Ws current arrears first started  to build in 2015.  Ive seen that he entered into various 
arrangements to pay from September 2015. Mr Ws credit file confirms  that there are arrears  
markers during  months when he was due to be in a payment  arrangement. But BoS has 
explained that a payment arrangement will cease when payment is made later than agreed 
or not at all that month.  With no payment arrangement in place, the entry on the credit file 
reverts back to the number of months the account is in arrears  at that time.
Ive compared  the payments made with Mr Ws credit file and BoSs records  of payment 
arrangements. Having done so, Ive seen that the months showing arrears do correlate to 
times when  no arrangement is in place - either because one wasnt  agreed,  or because  the 
arrangement ended prematurely because it wasnt adhered to as agreed.  So, I think BoSs 
assessment of its reporting  about Mr Ws mortgage  account to credit reference  agencies is 
correct. 
Where BoS has made some amendments, I dont think these were substantial enough to 
make an overall difference to Mr Ws ability to obtain credit,  given the overall level of arrears 
on the account since 2015.  So, I dont  require BoS to pay compensation to Mr W in that 
regard.
In summary  
In respect of the issues considered in this complaint, I dont think BoS has acted 
unreasonably or unfairly. It has acted in line with the terms of Mr Ws mortgage and I dont 
think those terms are unreasonable. I havent  seen that BoS has treated Mr W unfavourably 
in relation to how I would expect it to treat other mortgage customers, so I dont think its 
been unfair.
Ref: DRN07691845My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2020.
Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0769184