K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that BMW  Financial Services(GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial 
Services irresponsibly approved a hire purchase agreement  for him. 
Mr T is represented  in this complaint by his partner,  but for ease  Ill refer to Mr T throughout. 
background
In September  2016, Mr T acquired  a used car from a dealership  (who I will refer to as P). 
The cash  price of the car was £70,950. It was paid for using a hire purchase agreement from 
Alphera. The total repayable was around £92,500  over a term of 49 months. Mr T was 
required to make a first repayment of around £1,500,  followed by 47 monthly payments of 
around £1,300  and then there  was a final optional payment of around  £30,000.  
Mr T says that P had led him to believe the term of the agreement was one year. He says 
that P had agreed to pay him around  £400  each month during that year to bring  the cost of 
the monthly repayments down. He says P told him that at the end of the year he could either  
continue paying  for the car but without the additional payments P was making  to him, 
exchange the car for a different one or hand  the car back and walk away with nothing further 
to pay.
In late 2017, Mr T says he heard from P saying that hed now been hiring the car for a year 
and he could choose a new one to exchange  it for. Mr T says he contacted P to say he just 
wanted to hand the car back, but he says he was told this wasnt  possible  and the salesmen 
that had arranged his current deal had been sacked. 
Mr T called Alphera to ask about  what the terms of the finance agreement  were. Alphera 
said it wasnt aware of any arrangement Mr T had with P. It told Mr T that he could walk 
away from the finance if he voluntary terminated  the car, but this would mean he still needed  
to pay around £30,000. It also gave him a settlement figure if he wanted to buy the car and 
told him he could also approach  another dealership  and part-exchange it. 
Mr T says he complained to P about  the way the agreement was sold.  He says he was 
misled into thinking  this was a one year lease. He said he wouldnt have entered into the 
agreement if hed known  it was a four year term. Mr T says P didnt respond to his complaint 
and later P ceased  trading.  
In late 2018, Mr T complained to Alphera to say the agreement had been mis-sold. Alphera 
said it had written to Mr T earlier in the year to say it had found out about the arrangements  
P had made with a number of customers and had invited him to contact  them to discuss  his 
agreement. Mr T says he never received this letter. Alphera agreed to allow Mr T to hand the 
car back with nothing further to pay. It also refunded the most recent monthly repayment he 
had made.  Mr T wasnt happy with this resolution as he feels  he shouldnt have had to pay 
any further payments  after the initial year of rentals.  He said the agreement  was mis-sold 
and he couldnt  afford  it once the payments P were making stopped. Alphera didnt agree to 
provide any further  refund, so Mr T referred his complaint  to our service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Alphera  had 
carried out reasonable and proportionate  affordability checks  before agreeing to lend to 
Mr T. However, she thought that if it had, it would have likely concluded Mr T could afford the 
repayments. She said the arrangement Mr T had with P was separate to the finance 
Ref: DRN04578762agreement. She didnt  think  P were acting as Alpheras  agent when it entered  into that 
arrangement with Mr T and therefore  she couldnt  reasonably hold Alphera responsible for 
any misleading information he might have been given by P. 
Mr T didnt  agree. In summary he said:
He wasnt aware  hed entered into a four year finance agreement with Alphera. 
He was in financial difficulty  after the initial 12 months because he couldnt afford the 
increased monthly repayments. This has resulted in negative markers on his credit 
file from Alphera.  
It wasnt reasonable for Alphera to assess affordability based on information it got 
about Mr T from the internet. This wasnt accurate information.  
He was entitled to a large discount  from manufacturer approved dealerships  courtesy 
of his employment. Had he wanted  to enter  into a four year agreement  he would 
have taken advantage of that discount  instead.  
The income amount  the investigator  used  included  bonuses which werent  
guaranteed. If affordability had been  based on his basic pay, it would show he 
couldnt afford the finance. 
Alphera should be held responsible for the actions of P because it arranged  the 
finance agreement.
Alphera were aware that P was mis-selling finance agreements  and should have 
allowed him to hand  the car back as soon as he called them at the end of 2017.  
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  
handbook. 
I think there are two overarching questions  I need to consider in order to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are: 
1.Did Alphera complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  itself that Mr T 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a.If so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
b.If not, would  reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Mr T could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2.Did Alphera act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?  
Did Alphera complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself that Mr T would 
be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit,  Alphera were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Ts ability to sustainably  repay  the borrowing. This is often referred  to as 
an affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed.  This means  it needed to be 
concerned with whether Mr T could sustainably afford  the borrowing (considering his specific  
circumstances), rather than how statistically likely  he was to repay.  The latter,  is the risk 
Ref: DRN04578763posed to Alphera as the lender, or its credit  risk but this is not necessarily the same as an 
assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited  to: 
The amount  of credit; 
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments; 
The duration of the agreement; 
The cost of the credit; and 
The consumers individual circumstances. 
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
The total amount  repayable was around  £92,500  with monthly  repayments  of around £1,300 
over a period  of four years. I think  this was a significant commitment and my starting point 
therefore is that any reasonable and proportionate  assessment of affordability ought to have 
been relatively thorough. 
Alphera says it carried out a credit  check which showed that Mr T was in arrears on some of 
his utilities. However, its underwriting notes say that these were possibly being disputed, 
doubt its due to affordability . Alphera essentially guessed that the arrears werent because 
Mr T couldnt afford them rather than trying  to find out. It seems  this was because  of what  it 
had found out about Mr T online. 
It says it showed Mr T was in a high paying  profession, although the information  it obtained  
didnt actually tell it how much Mr T earned. Further, just because someone might  earn a 
large salary it doesnt automatically follow that they can afford to pay £1,300  per month  
towards a finance  agreement. The credit file also indicated Mr T may have had some 
financial difficulty with his existing commitments.  
Alphera had no understanding of what Mr Ts income actually was, nor did it attempt to find 
out about any of his other committed expenditure outside of what his credit file showed. 
Given the large financial commitment Alphera  was proposing to have Mr T enter into, I think  
it ought to have done much more to assess whether the agreement  was affordable. I dont  
think Alpheras checks were reasonable and proportionate  in the circumstances.  
I think Alphera should have attempted to verify  Mr Ts income and understand what  his other  
committed expenditure was. As I dont think it did enough, Ive gone onto consider what I 
think it would  have  likely found  out had it completed  reasonable  and proportionate  checks.  
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Mr T could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
Its not clear what additional  questions or evidence Alphera would have  asked for had it 
completed reasonable and proportionate  checks. However, Ive reviewed copies of Mr Ts 
bank statements for the months leading up to the lending decision. Im not suggesting 
Alphera were required  or ought to have requested bank statements. But, in the absence of 
anything else, I think this gives  a good indication of what information  Alphera would likely 
have discovered  had it carried out appropriate affordability checks. 
Ref: DRN04578764Based on what Mr T has told us and what the bank statements show,  it appears  his 
committed monthly expenditure, including the payments  to Alphera was around  £4,780.  It 
also doesnt appear that the arrears on Mr Ts credit  file were  due to a lack of affordability. 
Mr T says his salary at the time was around  £4,300 per month. However, in the three months  
leading up to him signing up to the finance  agreement, the lowest amount he was paid was 
around £5,000.  His average monthly salary  over those three months was around £5,600. 
Mr T says this was because he was paid bonuses which varied  month on month.  He says 
these bonuses werent guaranteed and many were performance related. However, it seems 
the bonuses were part of his employment contract  and appeared to be a regular feature of 
his pay, albeit I accept the amount he was paid did fluctuate. 
On balance, I think its likely that had Alphera  sought  to verify Mr Ts income  and asked 
about his expenditure it would have shown the finance was affordable.  Although Mr Ts 
income did fluctuate, it appeared he did regularly receive an amount which  exceeded his 
outgoings and left enough disposable  income  for unexpected costs. Further,  it seems he had 
been able to sustain repayments  to a previous car finance agreement with similar size 
monthly repayments for a period of over two years, suggesting his regular income was 
higher than just his basic pay. I therefore dont think Alphera ought reasonably to have come 
to a different  lending  decision  had it carried out reasonable and proportionate affordability  
checks. 
Did Alphera act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?  
Mr T says P misled  him to entering into this agreement. He says he was under the 
impression it was a one year lease agreement. However, Mr T actually  entered  into a four 
year hire purchase agreement with Alphera. It appears that Mr T also entered  into a 
separate arrangement with P. This separate  arrangement was for a year.  
Although Mr T hasnt provided a copy of the agreement  he signed with P, I have seen an 
example of the type of arrangement that was usually put in place. In summary, P agreed to 
pay a contribution for a year towards the finance agreement to bring the cost of the monthly  
rentals down. It seems it also offered to buy Mr T out of the finance agreement when that 
year came to an end, or alternatively it would  arrange to part exchange the car for another 
one. 
One of the effects of Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is to hold Alphera 
responsible for the representations  of its agent  in the antecedent  negotiations when 
entering into the hire purchase agreement. 
P was the dealership that sourced  the car for Mr T. However, it wasnt  acting as Alpheras 
agent. Ive not seen  anything to lead me to conclude it had a business relationship with 
Alphera or that it was the one that brokered the hire purchase agreement  on Alpheras 
behalf. 
There was a separate company (who  Ill call M) that brokered  the Alphera  agreement.  It 
seems that P asked  M to broker the finance agreement for Mr T and it is M that was acting 
as Alpheras agent  in arranging the finance  agreement. While P may have asked  Mr T to 
sign the agreement, M was the broker who arranged it all, whether Mr T knew it or not. 
Ref: DRN04578765Im persuaded that P did likely mislead Mr T as to the nature of the agreement  he was 
entering. However, the arrangement Mr T had with P didnt form part of his agreement with 
Alphera, as Ive said above, it was a separate agreement altogether. For this reason, and 
because P wasnt acting as Alpheras agent  in arranging the hire purchase agreement,  
I cant reasonably hold Alphera  responsible for any misleading information P may have given 
to Mr T. 
Mr T says Alphera knew that P was selling agreements in this way and therefore should  
have allowed them to walk away from it when he first called them  in late 2017. But I dont 
agree. 
Ive listened to the call made in late 2017.  During  this call its clear Mr T didnt know how long 
his hire purchase agreement was, or even what type of agreement  he had. But its also clear  
Alpheras representative had no idea about  the arrangement Mr T had with P. He suggests 
that Mr T discusses any concerns he has with P directly.  I dont  think that was unreasonable  
in the circumstances, particularly as Mr T didnt suggest he wanted  to raise a complaint 
against Alphera. 
From everything Ive seen  Im not persuaded Alphera knew  about the arrangement  P put in 
place when Mr T contacted it in late 2017. However,  it appears that Alphera did become  
aware of a wider  problem  with Ps sales  practices  a few months later in early 2018. I can see 
it sent Mr T a letter advising him of what it had found  and inviting him to contact them  to 
discuss his agreement. Unfortunately, Mr T had moved address and didnt receive this letter 
which is why his concerns  werent looked  into until he got in touch with Alphera  in late 2018.  
It seems  that once Mr T did complain  about the sale of the agreement  with Alphera it agreed  
to allow  him to return the car and refunded him one monthly rental payment. This is because  
Alphera said that it wouldnt have gone  ahead with the finance  if it had known in advance 
about what P was doing. In the circumstances I think Alpheras response was fair and 
reasonable. I dont  think Alphera ought to have done  anything  more here. 
Lastly, Mr T says he was in financial difficulty and couldnt  afford  the repayments once P 
stopped making  contributions. I can see that Mr T did miss a total of two payments, several 
months apart but on each occasion the arrears were  paid up quickly. I cant  see that Mr T 
contacted Alphera to tell them  he was struggling,  so I dont think  Alphera ought  reasonably  
to have been aware he was in financial difficulty.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2021.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0457876