K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about an investment they held with Coutts  & Company (Coutts). 
They say they wanted a low risk investment but are concerned about its reduction in value 
over a short period.  They  are also concerned  about  the guidance they were given when the 
contacted Coutts  about its performance.  
background
Mr and Mrs F are concerned about the extent  of the losses on their investment  considering  
that they believed they had invested into a low risk investment. They  say that their Coutts  
adviser was replaced  during the time they held the investment and after that point the 
investment lost money. They  are concerned about the assurances they received from the 
new adviser that they should retain the investment  which  led to further losses.  In particular 
Mr and Mrs F say it was mentioned by their Coutts  contact  that the value would not fall 
below a certain figure (but it did). They appreciate there is some  volatility  with investments 
but are concerned that the loss seems too great  for a low risk investment. They  believe they 
have lost about £125,000.  
Mr and Mrs F complained to Coutts  but it did not uphold their complaint. It commented  on 
the economic  situation which has contributed to the reduction in value but said that the 
investment was intended to be held for three  to five years. It also commented on the 
telephone calls Mr F had with the Coutts  employee.  It said that the employee had not given  
any guarantees that the value would not fall below a certain level but had agreed to contact  
Mr F if that happened.  It said investment performance could not be guaranteed and Mr F 
decided to exit the investment against its advice.
Mr and Mrs F referred their complaint to this service  and it was considered by an 
investigator. The investigator did not believe the complaint  should  be upheld.  She felt that 
the original recommendation of the investment  had been suitable. The investigator listened 
to the available telephone  calls between Mr F and his Coutts contact. She couldnt  find that 
the Coutts employee had guaranteed the investment  value would not fall below a certain 
value or misled Mr F in the calls. Furthermore it was Mr Fs choice to exit the investment, 
which unfortunately seems to have been  at a low point.   
Mr and Mrs F did not agree and referred to the effect their Coutts contact changing  had. 
They said there was pressure to invest money  in their savings account on the basis  this 
money would  diminish if not invested.  The new Coutts adviser had said that the investment 
would not fall below a certain value and did not tell Mr F when the value fell below £1.6M.  
They also highlighted the fact that not all of the telephone calls were available.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F met with an adviser from Coutts in June  2018  regarding options with money  being  held 
in cash. The adviser recommended Mr and Mrs F invest  £1.7M in the Coutts Multi Asset UK 
Balanced fund portfolio. In the recommendation letter of 20 June 2018 the adviser set out his 
recommendations and Mr and Mrs Fs objectives. It was discussed  that they would retain 
£600,000 on deposit and invest  over the medium term - with the fund having a UK focus.  It 
Ref: DRN05328982was set out that Mr and Mrs F may wish to buy a property  in the UK in five years time  so 
that timescale was taken  into account.  
Mr and Mrs Fs risk profile was discussed as being Moderately Risk Tolerant. As the 
investigator set out this was defined as:
You can accept the risk of loss to some of your overall investments because  you want  to 
achieve a good financial return.  You are comfortable seeing the value of your investments 
fluctuating as long as the risk of significant  loss to you overall  investments is minimised  over 
the long term.
In normal market conditions  a volatility of 5% to 10% would be associated  with this 
approach. In addition it was set out that:
Were your investment objectives  not met or there was a market  crisis  during the investment 
term, you are comfortable you could fund any shortfall in a property purchase with excess  
income. You would  prefer to take this risk rather than sit in cash  for the next 5 years  and see 
your capital eroded by inflation. As such your capacity for loss can be described as 
moderate.
Although Mr and Mrs F were classed as inexperienced investors it was recorded  that Mr F 
could:
talk comfortably around different asset classes and have made a private equity
investment as detailed  below.  You keep abreast of financial markets and understand the
volatility involved with investing. 
Mr F appears to have previously made an investment in an early stage private company.
There was a further letter dated 25 July 2018 from the Coutts  adviser to Mr and Mrs F: 
 
For the sake of regularity, I will recap  our conversation regarding the investment time 
horizon of the fund which has been  recommended to you - CMAF  UK Balanced  - as this has 
a minimum 5 year recommended holding term although it has liquidity and can be encashed 
earlier. 
You both confirmed to me that your investment time frame is 5 years, although  it could be 
either slightly longer  or less, depending  on when you return  to the UK. 
As there is therefore  the potential  for your investment term to be less than 5 years, I 
explained that there is an alternative fund option - CMAF UK Defensive - which has a time 
horizon of 3 to 5 years, and therefore may align more closely to your potentially shorter 
investment term. This fund does have a lower  risk profile than your agreed  Moderately Risk 
Tolerant approach as it is Moderately Risk Averse and therefore has a lower expected 
return.
However, you both confirmed that you feel it is important  to be exposed to the Moderately 
Risk Tolerant investment for the opportunity to achieve your objective  and desired return  
level, which you consider  more important than time horizon risk. You confirmed  therefore  
that you do not wish to take less risk and are fully aware that the investment time horizon of 
the fund recommended  is a minimum of 5 years, and the risks associated  with this.
Ref: DRN05328983Accordingly, I am pleased  to confirm that the funds have been placed in the investment  
account and a trade placed for the purchase  of units. A contract note will be forthcoming in 
the next day or so.
The investment fund factsheet sets out that, at the time, the fund held a mixture of cash, 
bonds and equities.  I have noted  that the main holdings were also index or collective funds  
 which  does help diversify the holdings  and risk. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F invested  a large  proportion of their money  in this fund. The 
investment could have  been staggered but that does not necessarily mean  that the decision 
to invest one lump sum investment is wrong or unsuitable. Also, the investment does not 
seem to me to be unsuitable for their recorded  moderate risk profile as defined  in the 
documents, or their objectives. It was appreciated that the money might be used  in future for 
property purchase and the evidence is that was discussed (and a lower risk fund considered  
but discounted).  There was also a considerable amount of money  left in cash   on deposit.  
My understanding is that the investment fell in value by about £125,000 by the time Mr and 
Mrs F exited  the fund. That is less than 10% of the investment value.  So whilst increases 
and decreases in the value of a fund cannot necessarily be equated with risk, this does not 
seem out of line with the volatility discussed, or what would  be within the range of the fund 
as described.  From  what I can see the fund then regained the value it lost within  the next 
few months. 
     
I havent seen  evidence that Mr and Mrs F were pressured into making this investment 
against their wishes  or could not make a balanced  decision about  whether to invest  or not. 
By their nature risk based investments  like Mr and Mrs Fs are medium  to long term in 
nature. This is to give the investments a period to achieve a return  and even-out  volatility in 
the market in which they invest. It is extremely difficult to predict such  volatility or when a 
market may fall. Hindsight should not be used when considering whether a decision to invest  
should be made or whether a decision to limit losses should have been made. This is a 
judgment call and there is no necessarily right  decision. So I cannot  say that the situation 
was such that Mr and Mrs F should have  been advised to exit the investment. As I say it was 
a medium to long term investment  and there  is no particular reason why it should not have 
been maintained despite  short  term volatility. 
Mr F says he had several calls with his Coutts  contact about  the investment - where he 
became increasingly  concerned about the investment and its reduction in value. This 
appears to have culminated  in December 2018, when, after several  calls,  Mr and Mrs F 
exited the investment towards the end of December 2018. 
Mr F describes how the Coutts employee  was of the view that he should not exit the 
investment. Bearing  in mind what I have said about the medium to long term nature of such  
an investment it would not be unreasonable for the Coutts employee to caution  against 
selling the investment, especially soon  after the original investment had been made. Whilst I 
appreciate that Mr F is concerned he was persuaded to remain invested, he could have 
given the order  to sell if he had been  firmly of the view that it should be sold (as he seems to 
have done later in December). 
It is unfortunate that Coutts cannot  locate some of the calls between  its employee and Mr F 
that Mr F says were  made. But I can only base my decision on the available  evidence. I have 
taken into account  that Mr F says that assurances were given in calls that are not available 
Ref: DRN05328984but it is not possible to establish that, or the exact  nature of those assurances  for example 
were they definite  or were  there caveats? Whilst this is not evidence that guarantees were 
not given, it would be very unusual for the employee to guarantee a fall would not be below a 
certain level  as they would know that would not be true. Like the adjudicator  I have also 
listened to the available calls I am not persuaded that the employee  acted  incorrectly  or 
prevented Mr and Mrs F from exiting the investment.
Mr F says that the Coutts contact told him that he would be contacted if the investment fell 
below £1.6M, but this did not happen.  My understanding is that Mr F was contacted  four 
days after it fell below  that level. But on balance I do not believe that had any effect on the 
final sale date of the investment (and therefore any loss). That is because  action wasnt 
taken when Mr F was informed of the fall to less than £1.6M.  It was not until about 10 days 
later that Mr F made that decision. 
I do not believe that the change in Mr and Mrs Fs contact employee  at Coutts had any effect 
on the performance of the fund or what occurred. The investment was intended to be held 
for three to five years  and a change in Coutts  contact  does  not affect that or the investment 
performance. I see no reason why the previous contact  would not have given the same 
general guidance as the new contact. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  discussed in this decision, I do not uphold this complaint or make  any 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0532898