K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi Capital) charged  him to refurbish 
alloy wheels  on a car he was returning  at the end of a hire period.
background
Mr D took receipt of a new car in January 2016. He financed the deal through a three year 
hire agreement with Hitachi Capital who inspected the vehicle through  a third party company 
at the end of the agreement.
The inspector identified corrosion on three of the alloy wheels and Hitachi Capital therefore 
asked Mr D to pay for refurbishment of the alloys as they said the damage to the wheels was 
beyond fair wear and tear.
But Mr D didnt think the charges Hitachi Capital had made  were  fair. He said the damage 
was the result of a manufacturing fault and that it should have  been  identified by the 
dealership when they carried out services on the car. So he complained to Hitachi  Capital 
but when they refused to waive the charges he referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator provided her opinion in May 2019. She explained that the British  Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA) provided the industry  guidelines on what  was fair 
wear and tear for a vehicle being  returned at the end of a lease. She thought the damage  
was clearly in excess of the standard and was therefore chargeable. She didnt think Mr D 
had provided any evidence that the corrosion was a result of a manufacturing fault and she 
thought hed been given  enough notice to have the fault remedied. She also considered  his 
point that the fault should have  been  noted in the services that had been completed, but she 
didnt think the business were obligated  to do this and overall  she thought Hitachi Capital 
had been fair making the charges they had.
But Mr D disagreed. He said he hadnt  noticed  the problem so he couldnt  have been  
expected to alert Hitachi Capital  any earlier and he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D but I agree with the investigators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Ds finance agreement  said that he needed to:
Ref: DRN02798842keep the vehicle  in good condition and repair. You will be responsible  to us for any 
damage caused to  the vehicle otherwise than through fair wear and tear as indicated  in 
the guidelines issued from time to time by the BVRLA.
Ive reviewed the inspection report photographs  that show damage  to each wheel and I think 
the damage is in excess of the BVRLA  guidance.  It would therefore  be Mr Ds responsibility 
to pay for refurbishment to return the wheels to a satisfactory condition.
As Hitachi Capital had told Mr D about the standard they would inspect the car to I think its 
fair to suggest it was his responsibility to ensure the car was of the requisite standard  and 
that any repairs were completed  prior to collection. I dont think the dealership were duty 
bound to identify  faults that may need  attention.
I understand Mr D thinks this issue would have been covered by his warranty.  I think its 
reasonable to suggest it was his responsibility  to identify the problem,  report  it to the 
dealership and have it repaired before inspection. 
Hitachi Capital are responsible for the quality  of the car at the start of the agreement.  So if 
there was evidence of a manufacturing fault that affected this car then I may expect them to 
have taken some action. But Mr D didnt alert them to any concerns because he hadnt 
noticed the defect and whilst there may be comments on the internet about corrosion of 
alloys on this make and model  of vehicle it wouldnt be fair of me to suggest  the corrosion 
noted on these  particular wheels was most likely to be the result of a manufacturing default. 
Ive not seen evidence of that. The car was three  years old and had completed 37,000 miles 
when it was handed back and I think, with the evidence available  to me, its most likely the 
damage to the wheels  has happened since the car was supplied to Mr D.
So I dont  think Hitachi Capital need  to waive the charges  theyve made for alloy 
refurbishment.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0279884