K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  following the 
opening of his bank account.  
background
The adjudicators background summary  covered all the relevant facts  and is known to both 
Mr H and Lloyds so I wont  repeat it in any great  detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
There are four aspects  to his complaint; Mr H opened  an account with Lloyds and as part of 
the process in so doing he was asked  to go into a branch with evidence  of his identity  and 
address. This he did, but found  the questions he was asked by a customer representative to 
be inappropriate. He also thought that person was unprofessional as she was not familiar 
with the process.  Additionally Mr H complained that he received both his bank card and pin 
number on the same day, and yet further that promised return  calls were  not made  within the 
timescales advised.
Lloyds didnt agree  with all of Mr Hs complaint but it did agree that there  had been a delay in 
responding to him, and in the light of that they paid £85.00  directly  into his account.
Mr H was unhappy with Lloydss response  and so the adjudicator looked into the complaint  
but didnt think  Lloyds had acted unfairly.  She also found that the level of compensation paid 
to Mr H in respect of the delay in getting  back to him, was fair and reasonable. As Mr H 
didnt agree, the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual  complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate  so to do. I do not perform  the role of the industry 
regulator, and nor do I have the power  to make rules for financial businesses, punish them, 
or direct that they change their processes.  That falls under the remit of the Financial  Conduct  
Authority. 
What I need to decide is whether Lloyds  acted fairly  and reasonably in its dealings  with 
Mr H. I take into account both Lloyds view and that of Mr H and I consider the evidence  and 
reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on that evidence. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach  a 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, I consider  what  is more likely  to 
have happened  in the light of that evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. 
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. 
Mr H has complained that the questions he was asked were  inappropriate, but has been 
unable to explain in what way. Lloyds have confirmed that they asked the standard 
questions relevant to the issue of verification as they ask of all their customers. I cant  
therefore say that there is any evidence of inappropriate questioning of Mr H.
Ref: DRN03449282Mr H has complained that he thought the customer representative he saw was 
unprofessional as she was unfamiliar with the process. This was not a complaint Mr H put to 
Lloyds and so was not addressed by them  in their final response letter. It is difficult therefore  
to pass any meaningful comment but it would appear that if the customer representative 
concerned was having some problems it did not materially interfere in the overall account 
opening process since the account was successfully opened. And it does not appear  to have 
been a significant area of complaint fro Mr H when he initially  contacted  Lloyds as he did not 
mention it.
Turning to the issue of the card and the PIN, I have considered Lloyds explanation and it 
seems very clear  that the PIN and the card were not contained  within the same envelope, 
since they were produced  from two distinct geographic sites. Lloyds have produced 
evidence that the letters were also produced 2 days apart,  and so whilst I dont doubt Mr H 
when he says they both arrived on the same day, I cant  say Lloyds have acted unfairly  here 
or provided  poor service because they took reasonable  steps to ensure  they were  delivered 
separately and at separate times.
I have thought about the £85 offer of compensation Lloyds made to Mr H in respect of the 
delay. I think that this is reasonable and it is in line with the awards this service  would make 
for distress and inconvenience  in circumstances like this, and I think it is fair and enough to 
put matters right.
So, I know Mr H will be disappointed with my decision  but I have come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. 
my final decision
Lloyds has already paid £85 to settle  the complaint and I think  this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. So my decision  is that Lloyds dont need to do anything else.
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0344928