K821x#15complaint
Mr S says he was mis-sold a Premier account in March 2009 and again in November  2009.  
He also says he was charged excessive overdraft  charges on his account.
background
From what  I can see, Mr S account  history has changed over the years  as set out below:
opened as a fee-free account  in July 2007,
changed to a Premier  Life account  in March  2009,
changed to a fee-free account  in October  2009, changed to a Premier  Life account 
again in November 2009,
migrated to a fee-free account in November 2015 with the Travel  Plus,  Home  and
Tech packs added which incurred a monthly fee.
Mr S says he went into a Barclays branch in March 2009 in order  to get a loan as he was 
beginning to struggle financially. He says he was told by the advisor  that instead of a loan, 
he would  need  to take out a Premier Life account which  had an overdraft. He was also told it 
had additional  benefits such as mobile  phone insurance, breakdown cover and travel 
insurance. He believes  the account  was mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator agreed and recommended that the account fees for the Premier Life account 
between March and October 2009  should be refunded. But she didnt think the second 
Premier Life or tech packs had been  mis-sold.  
In addition to this, Mr S has complained about  bank charges he had incurred on his account
from around 2012 onwards. Mr S had made  a previous  complaint  to Barclays about  this 
issue which had already been  dealt  with under a separate  complaint.  But our adjudicator felt 
this hadnt addressed more recent  charges from around February  2017  onwards. When  she 
considered these, she felt Barclays could have  done more to help and recommended  that 
Barclays refund all overdraft charges Mr S had incurred since February 2019, plus interest. 
Barclays did not agree and felt that the charges had been applied fairly and in line with its 
account terms and conditions. It also felt it had tried to contact Mr S but hadnt  received a
response from him.
I wrote  a provisional decision in which I agreed with our adjudicator  about  the Premier  Life 
accounts. I said that based on what I had seen so far, I thought the first Premier Life should 
be upheld but the second one sold in November 2009, along with the tech packs  sold in 
November 2015,  I didnt think had been  mis-sold.  My opinion on the charges applied  to the 
account werent the same as our adjudicator.  I said that, based on the information available 
to me, I felt Barclays correctly applied  charges  to Mr S account  and that they gave Mr S 
opportunities to discuss the matter further  with their financial difficulties team. So, I didnt 
think these should  be refunded. My provisional decision read as follows:
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr S was given a clear  choice in taking the Premier 
Life account in March 2009. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make 
my decision  based  on what I think is most  likely to have happened  in the circumstances. And
in doing so, I have to weigh up what Mr S and Barclays have been  able to provide me with. 
Mr S says he thought  he had to have the Premier  Life account  in order  to get the overdraft. 
From what  I can see of Mr S overdraft history, he didnt have one before he went  to the 
Barclays branch in March  2009. Looking at Mr S statements, he began to use the overdraft 
Ref: DRN09470412almost immediately, so I think this was of importance to him. And I think  this matches  up with 
Mr S testimony that he thought he had to have the Premier Life account  in order  to get the 
overdraft.
Barclays has said that Mr S was attracted to the Premier Life account  because it offered an 
interest free overdraft  up to £1,000  with a preferential rate on balances over that. While this 
was a benefit on the account, from what Ive seen I dont think the savings Mr S was 
expecting to make as a result of the interest fee overdraft  would  have outweighed  the £25
monthly account fee. And I think this supports  Mr Ms testimony  that he thought  he had to
have the Premier Life account in order to get the overdraft. Having carefully considered
everything available to me, I think its more likely Mr S wasnt given  a clear choice when he
took out the Premier  Life account. This is a serious  failing on Barclays part, and based on 
what Ive seen so far, I think it should therefore  refund  the Premier Life account fees from 
March 2009 until it was downgraded in October  2009.
Premier Life account sold in November  2009.
Mr S downgraded the account to a fee-free one in October  2009  before upgrading it again to 
the Premier Life account in November 2009. Mr S has said he went  into the branch to 
increase his overdraft  limit and he upgraded the account at the same time. Ive again thought  
about whether  Mr S was given a fair choice in taking or declining the Premier  Life account. 
Seeing as at that time he had a fee-free account with overdraft, I think Mr S was aware  that 
he didnt have to have the Premier Life account in order to have the overdraft. And I think  he 
was aware he could keep his fee-free  account if he wanted to.
Ive looked at Mr S statements and I can see on 9 November  2009, Mr S was charged £9.80 
interest, plus a Reserve fee of £22 and a returned item fee of £8 because he had gone  over 
his overdraft limit. This is the same day that Mr S upgraded  his account to a Premier Life 
account, so I think its most  likely these charges were a factor in Mr S deciding to upgrade  
his account again to a Premier Life account.  As a result of having the Premier Life account,  
the first £1,000  of his overdraft would  be interest fee and any borrowing over that point would 
have a preferential  interest rate when compared to a standard account.  And I think he made 
this decision knowing he didnt have to have the Premier Life account.
From what  Ive seen I dont think Barclays recommended the Premier Life account  to Mr S. 
Because of this, it didnt have to make  sure that the account was right for him. But it did have 
to give him enough  information so he could make  sure he wanted it.
At the time of the sale the account  had a number of benefits attached to it, the main  ones  
were; breakdown cover, worldwide travel  insurance, mobile phone insurance. I can see that 
Mr S registered a mobile phone in November 2009, so I think  its likely Barclays  gave him 
enough information for him to be aware of the benefits and to know  how to use them.  Mr S 
also used the breakdown  cover twice in October  2011 and once in November 2011 and 
again in October  2013. And the notes for the account also show  he used the travel  insurance 
for a third party in August  2011. Based on this, I think Mr S was aware  of the main benefits 
on the account and knew how to use them. So, I think Barclays gave Mr S enough 
information so he could make sure the account  was right for him.
Having carefully considered everything  available to me, I currently  think  that Mr S chose to 
take out the Premier  Life account in November 2009  knowing he didnt have to, and that he 
Ref: DRN09470413was given enough information  for him to make an informed decision. So, I dont  think 
Barclays mis-sold  the account.
Migration to tech packs
In November 2015, the Premier Life account was migrated to a fee-free account with the 
Travel Plus,  Home and Tech  packs added which incurred a monthly fee. This is because the 
eligibility criteria  for Premier Life accounts changed,  and Mr S no longer met the eligibility 
criteria. Barclays wrote to Mr S to explain  this and gave him over six months warning of the 
upcoming changes,  which  I think was reasonable.
As I think  Mr S was aware he could have fee-free  accounts, I think  it follows  that he was 
aware he could  choose  not to have the tech packs if he didnt want them. And as they 
provided generally the same main insurance benefits that Mr S had used on the Premier Life 
account, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to have attached the tech packs  to his 
account.
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I currently think Barclays  acted reasonably when it 
migrated Mr S to the Travel Plus, Home and Tech packs and that Mr S was aware he didnt 
have to have them if he didnt want them.
Charges complaint
Mr S has also complained about  bank charges he has incurred relating to his overdraft. 
Based on what Ive seen  so far, Im not minded to uphold this part of the complaint. Ill 
explain why in more  detail.
As mentioned above, Mr S has previously  made  a complaint  about  bank charges which  we 
dealt with under a separate complaint. Therefore,  decision  is only addressing  bank charges 
from January 2019 onwards, which is when Mr Ss contacted Barclays  about his 
circumstances.
Mr S called Barclays on 18 January  2019  to make them aware that his circumstances had 
changed, and he was struggling to keep his finances  in order. Its likely he was referred  to 
the financial assistance team as he mentioned in the call, he would contact them  to discuss  
his options. Barclays  has said that theres  no record of Mr S trying to contact the financial 
assistance team after that call.
On 25 February 2019, Barclays  wrote  to Mr S because they had noticed he had been in his 
overdraft for over 12 months  and had incurred £551  in overdraft fees during that time.  They  
were concerned he was experiencing financial difficulties and recommended  that he call 
them as soon as possible to discuss his options.  Barclays have said they have no record  of 
Mr S contacting them following this letter.
Barclays also sent Mr S letters on 18 February and 4 July after he incurred  charges  on his 
overdraft and gave  him the option to speak with them and also gave him contacts  for 
organisations such as the debt helpline.
Once Barclays was aware  Mr S was in financial difficulties, they should have treated him 
positively and sympathetically. In order to do this though, they also needed to have a line of 
communication with Mr S to talk through his circumstances in more  detail and work out a 
plan of action  with him. Without this, it isnt possible to determine what Mr S can and cannot 
Ref: DRN09470414afford to pay. Barclays did write to Mr S on a number of occasions  and gave him the option  
to call them  or go online to discuss his financial situation, which is what I would have 
expected them to do. But from what Ive seen, Mr S didnt follow this up and the charges 
were correctly applied  at the time.  Because of this, I think Barclays has acted reasonably in 
the circumstances to try and assist Mr S, and when it was unable to, it fairly applied the 
charges.
So, based  on what Ive seen so far, I dont think Barclays have  made an error in the 
circumstances and I dont  think it needs  to refund Mr S with the overdraft charges correctly 
applied to his account.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision and accepted  my findings.  They  calculated  
the refund  of the Premier Life charges from March 2009 to October  2009,  plus 8% simple  
interest minus income tax as £261.64. 
Mr S disagreed with my findings and provided additional comments and evidence  for me to 
consider. In summary:
Mr S initially responded  to my provisional  decision and said that after March  2009, 
the account had never  been a fee-free account  and had always remained a Premier 
Life account. He said that on 9 November  2009,  he went  to the Barclays  branch to 
increase his overdraft  again and not to upgrade his account  to a Premier Life. He has 
since written to us a second time and said that he can see the account was 
downgraded to a fee-free  current account  in October  2009, but that Barclays  must 
have made this change without  his consent.
He doesnt  think Barclays  did enough when his Premier Life account migrated to the 
tech packs and that he didnt really  use the benefits included  within  them. 
Mr S thinks we should be considering all the charges applied to his account from 
2011 onwards,  not just the ones from January 2019.  
my findings
Firstly, Id like to sincerely thank Mr S for the time he has taken to respond to my provisional 
decision with his comments  and for providing  evidence for me to consider. I appreciate  the 
effort he has gone to in order to make sure I have everything I need to come to a fair and 
reasonable outcome. Ive again  considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin by addressing Mr S point that he never  downgraded the account to a fee-free one 
in October 2009.  As Mr S has said, the statements show  that the account did change to a 
fee-free current account in October  2009. I say this because in the month of October, the 
statements show the name of the account  changed from Premier Life to current account, 
indicating the account itself had changed  to a fee-free account. And this is why there  was no 
monthly fee in November.  The regular  monthly account fees started again in December 2009 
after it was upgraded back to a Premier  Life account on 9 November. The statements also 
show Mr S didnt pay the September fee of £25 and Barclays  has explained this was due to 
an admin error. 
Mr S initially  said the account had never  changed to a fee-free one after it became a Premier 
Life. Having reviewed his statements, he now says Barclays must have accidentally 
switched his account to a fee-free current account in August 2009  when he requested an 
Ref: DRN09470415increase in his overdraft.  He thinks this happened  without his consent, and feels this must 
have been an admin error  on Barclays end. 
I can understand Mr S strength of feeling, and while errors  do happen as we can see with 
the September fee being missed on the account, I dont think its more  likely that an error led 
to the account  being  downgraded.  Instead, I think its more  likely it was downgraded  
following a request from Mr S. Mr S has said that the account must have accidentally been  
downgraded on 6 August 2009  when  he was in branch, but as explained  above,  from the 
statements you can see the account  was downgraded in October, not August. 
There is an application form for the Premier  Life account from 9 November 2009 which is 
signed by Mr S, so I can see at that point he was aware the account had downgraded to a 
fee-free one, and he was requesting for it to be upgraded again. Looking  at Mr S initial 
comments to my provisional decision that the account never  changed to a fee-free one after 
March 2009, it appears Mr S didnt recall requesting the upgrade in November 2009. I 
appreciate that Mr S may not remember this clearly, and this is understandable  considering 
it was 11 years ago now. And because  of this, I think its also possible  Mr S may not 
remember asking for the account to be downgraded as well. 
Having considered Mr S comments and the information hes provided, I think  its more likely  
the account was downgraded in October  2009 following a request from him, and that he then 
upgraded it again in November 2009 following an increase  in charges on the account as set 
out in my provisional  decision. And it follows that he was aware he didnt have to have the 
Premier Life account in order to keep his overdraft.
Mr S has said he doesnt think Barclays did enough when his account was migrated to the 
tech packs and that hes barely used the benefits they provided. But I dont think this means 
the tech packs were  mis-sold to Mr S when the Premier  Life was migrated to them  in 2015.  
And just because Mr S hasnt had much use of the benefits, it doesnt change  my findings 
set out in my provisional decision. Barclays gave  Mr S six months notice that the Premier 
Life account would change to tech packs. And Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr S wasnt  
given a fair choice  to decline the tech packs if he didnt want  them.  
Finally, Mr S has asked me to consider all the charges applied  to the account since  2011  
and has given me a lot of information about his personal circumstances throughout that time. 
I appreciate his openness and honesty about this. As I set out in my provisional decision, 
these charges were  already considered under a separate complaint over three years ago, so 
I havent considered  the earlier charges in this decision. I only considered  charges from 
around February 2017 onwards, which is also what the adjudicator  did previously. I set out in 
my provisional decision that these  were charged  correctly, and that Barclays  gave Mr S the 
option to talk these over further with them but as far as I can see Mr S didnt contact the 
financial assistance team.  
Ive considered all of Mr S additional comments and evidence  and I hope Ive explained 
clearly why my outcome hasnt changed  from my provisional decision.  Barclays  has now 
agreed with my recommendation that the Premier account fees from March to November 
2009 should be refunded  and has calculated the total as £261.64. It should arrange  to pay 
Mr S directly.
Ref: DRN09470416my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0947041