K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains about U K Insurance Limiteds handling of a third party claim under  his car 
insurance policy.
background 
Mr R was notified by his insurer of a third party claim against him under his car insurance 
policy. He was later told the third party hadnt been  in contact again and the case had been 
closed.
Sometime later, having heard nothing more about  the matter,  Mr R found  out a county court  
judgement (CCJ) had been registered  against him for non-payment of the claim.
U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have accepted this was their fault.
Mr R works  as a contractor. He says he missed out on renewal of his work contract for 
almost two months because the contracting organisation carried out prolonged checks  on 
him after they became aware  of the CCJ.
He says this meant he didnt have the funds  to carry on his business effectively  and that 
his day to day life was impacted.
He also says his credit rating was affected  by the CCJ. And his reputation with work  
colleagues has been damaged.
Mr R complained to UKI. Theyd taken steps to ensure Mr Rs credit file was corrected. And 
they paid him £1,000 in compensation for the trouble hed been caused by their error.
Mr R wasnt happy with this and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it and thought 
UKI should also compensate Mr R for his lost earnings. She thought hed effectively  not had 
work for around 7 weeks as result  of the CCJ against his name.
UKI accepted they should cover  Mr Rs lost earnings  and made an offer to settle the dispute. 
However, they thought Mr R had lost work for a shorter period of time and their offer 
reflected this.
Mr R was unwilling to accept the offer on that basis, so the case was been  passed to me for 
a final decision.  Because  my reasoning was slightly different in terms of the compensation 
which should be paid to Mr R, I decided to issue a provisional decision before I make  my 
final decision. This allowed both parties  to comment on my thinking before I make my final 
decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman Services  last word on the case.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN08684782Theres no dispute in this case that UKIs error led to a CCJ being registered against  
Mr R. So the question  for me is solely about  the extent of the compensation which 
should be awarded to Mr R.
Mr R has provided evidence  of a series of consecutive  contracts  with the same  
organisation over a period  of time prior to April 2018. Each contract started  after a 
gap of two days  (in each  case  a weekend)  after the previous one ended.
So Im satisfied on balance that Mr R would have had a contract  beginning on 
Monday 2 April 2018  after the previous one ended on Friday  30 March  2018  had 
it not been for the extended  checks being  carried out. UKI now appear  to accept that 
its very likely the CCJ was the cause of those checks being carried out. And I agree. 
So, its likely Mr R did suffer a break in his contracting  work because of the CCJ. And 
UKI are responsible  for that. What I need  to consider is how long that break in Mr Rs 
work lasted.
Mr R says his next contract come  into effect  on 21 May 2018. So he had no contract 
for 50 days.  He calculates annual earnings  on the basis of a flat rate of monthly pay 
at £10,865. And says UKI should cover lost earnings  at 50/365 of his projected  
annual earnings   which amounts to just short of £18,000.
UKI have  pointed out that although  the copy of the contract Mr R provided  is signed 
on 21 May 2018, there is an email from Mr Rs contracting organisation which 
suggests he actually  began work  on 8 May 2018.  They also say this is what  Mr R told 
them himself  during a call he made to them. They have provided system notes which 
record this conversation.
Mr R has also said that hes paid £10,865 per month irrespective of how many days  
he actually works. That would suggest  he should have been fully paid for May 2018.
Mr R also provided copies  of his business  bank  account statements for the relevant 
period  and invoices  he submitted for the work  hed done. There  are invoices for 
work carried out in January, February,  March and May 2018. All of them   including  
Mays invoice  are for amounts in excess of £10,000. Mays invoice is for over 
£13,000. All of those  invoices have a corresponding payment  into Mr Rs business 
bank account  from his contracting organisation.
Mr R has been paid by his contracting organisation  for every month in 2018  through  
to May  except for April.  So, according to the evidence  I have, it seems  Mr R has 
missed out on one month of contracting work (April 2018).
Im happy  to take at face value Mr Rs assertion that hes paid £10,865 per month. 
And given  that he says thats a monthly rate, Im not going to worry about how many 
working days there are in April. Im satisfied  on balance  that the erroneous  CCJ cost 
Mr R £10,865  the amount hed have earned  in April had his contract started when 
expected.
If he had worked in April,  Mr R would have received that money in early May,  so Im 
going to ask UKI to pay interest on the £10,865 at 8% from the beginning of May 
2018 through to the day on which the payment is made to Mr R.
Ref: DRN08684783Theres also the question  of how much UKI should pay Mr R for his trouble and upset 
in addition to his lost earnings. They originally offered £1,000  for this. And our 
investigator thought  that amount was fair when she looked into it.
I cant see any reason to disagree with that suggested amount. Mr R suffered some 
inconvenience in having to resolve this problem once it was discovered. His adverse 
credit rating also meant that he missed out on the purchase of a vehicle. And Im sure 
he suffered some unnecessary embarrassment when he had to disclose what had 
happened to work  colleagues.
He says his reputation has also been damaged  particularly with the organisation 
that gives him work. I can see this might be a legitimate fear, but I also have to bear 
in mind that he has now been  re-contracted by that organisation through  to March 
2019. That would indicate that any damage  to his reputation has been  temporary  
and/or minor.
Mr R has also told us that due to the loss of earnings his business didnt have the 
necessary fuds to continue effectively. And that it had an impact  on his day-to-day  
life.
Having reviewed the evidence, I dont think these  impacts  can have been severe. 
Mr Rs business current account  was over £40,000 in credit before April. And it 
dipped to over £30,000  due to the lost earnings.  There are no payments or expenses 
leaving that account to suggest  that Mr Rs business  was in any danger of having 
insufficient funds  to carry on.
Its also apparent from the bank  statements  that Mr R continued to make  substantial 
payments to himself from that account throughout the relevant  period. And he could 
have matched those  payments several  times  over  had he wished  without either 
emptying the account or bringing it down to a level where his business might have 
been affected.
Im aware also that Mr R has a business  savings account with an additional  
substantial amount of funds which  were not used  during the relevant period.
Taking all of that into account  - and bearing  in mind that there was a period of a few 
weeks where Mr R might  have had legitimate concerns that the CCJ might lead to 
him not being  re-contracted   I think £1,000 is fair and reasonable compensation for 
Mr Rs trouble and upset.
I believe UKI have already paid Mr R £1,000   which will fulfil part of the requirement 
Im placing  on them  in my decision (as set out below). For the sake  of clarity, Im not 
suggesting another £1,000 is paid.
Ref: DRN08684784the responses to my provisional  decision
UKI have  said they accept  my provisional  decision.  And although Mr R hasnt said that he 
fully accepts my reasons,  he has accepted  the outcome.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive looked again at my provisional 
decision. 
Given that both UKI and Mr R accept  the outcome, I can see no reason to change  my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
U K Insurance Limited should pay Mr R:
£10,865 to compensate  him for loss of earnings in April;
plus interest on that amount at 8% - from the beginning of May 2018  to the date the
payment is processed;
plus £1,000  in compensation for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0868478