K820x#14Complaint
Ms K complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC suspended  her account while they carried out a 
review. Ms K couldnt access her money which caused delays to a property  purchase  and 
therefore, further charges.
Ms K is also unhappy at the way Barclays dealt  with her complaint. And she says they 
caused her significant  emotional distress so wants compensation.
Background
Ms K went into her local branch in December  2018.  She wanted to transfer around £896,000 
for a property purchase. She was due to complete  on the property  the next day.
The next day, Ms K checked  her account online  but noticed all her money  had been  
removed. Ms K went  to her branch and they explained her account was under review. They 
couldnt give Ms K a timescale for when she would have access  to her account  again.
A couple of days later,  Ms K went to another branch.  They gave her the name  of somebody 
in the complaints team who could  help her.
At this point, the completion date for the property Ms K was purchasing had passed. The 
solicitors sent a notice  of completion and Ms K says they charged her additional interest 
because they hadnt received the funds.
Over the next week or so, Ms K tried to contact Barclays complaints team.  Ms K says every 
time she called, the complaint handler  was unavailable. Because  Ms K didnt have access  to 
her current  account, she said she couldnt pay some of her bills. And she was concerned the 
seller of the property  she was purchasing  would  cancel  the contract. Ms K says she suffered 
with anxiety as a result.
Around 12 days later, on 19 December 2018, Ms K checked her account online again. She 
noticed her funds had been returned in full. She tried to call the complaint handler again  but 
couldnt get through to him. 
Ms K eventually got a call from the Barclays payments team. They  told her the money  for 
the property would be transferred the next day. Fortunately, Ms K didnt  lose out on her 
property purchase.  However, she did have to pay additional costs and thinks  Barclays  
should reimburse her for the additional interest  charged, and the late payment fee. Ms K also 
wants compensation for the extreme emotional stress she says this situation caused her.
The investigator who looked at things thought Barclays had acted in line with their legal and 
regulatory obligations. So he didnt think Barclays should reimburse Ms K for the additional 
costs shed been charged. He also recognised that the lack of updates  from Barclays during 
their review  would have been  frustrating but said they arent  obliged  to keep customers 
updated. So, he didnt  think they needed to pay any compensation.
Ms G, on behalf of Ms K, didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsman  to review things.
Ref: DRN03465942My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. Ive explained further below.
I recognise how frustrating it must  have  been for Ms K to realise she couldnt use her 
account. And I appreciate this put her in a financially  challenging position because she didnt 
have access to her funds  especially because she was in the middle of a house  purchase. 
But a bank cant always guarantee that funds in an account are readily available.
Ive considered Barclays actions when reviewing  and subsequently suspending Ms Ks 
account. And, based on what Ive seen, like the investigator, Im satisfied they acted in line 
with their obligations. Barclays, like all UK banks, are strictly regulated  and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied Barclays were  acting in line with these obligations when  reviewing Ms Ks account.  
I havent seen  that Barclays  caused  any unnecessary delays when reviewing  Ms Ks 
account. I say that because it appears the blocks were  placed around 6 December 2018  and 
they were removed around 19 December 2018. I dont think a period of less than two weeks  
to carry out a review  is unreasonable.  I note Ms Ks comments about Barclays  taking this 
time because she told them her property would fall through if it took longer than two weeks.  
However, Im satisfied, based  on the evidence Ive seen,  Barclays  removed the restrictions 
once their review was complete. And I believe they were proactive in their actions.  
While Im pleased Ms K was able to complete on her property purchase, I recognise she did 
have to pay extra due to the review  of her account.  I appreciate  how strongly  Ms K feels 
about the additional charges she incurred  and she thinks  Barclays should reimburse her. 
However, Id need to be satisfied that Barclays did something wrong to be able to ask them 
to reimburse a customer for loss of funds. But as Ive explained above, I consider Barclays 
acted appropriately.  So, I cant  reasonably  ask them to reimburse  Ms K.
Ive also thought about what  Ms K has said about  the severe emotional impact  this situation 
caused. Im sorry to hear she suffered with anxiety  I dont doubt this would have been a 
stressful time for her. I also agree it would have been helpful if Ms K received more  updates  
and communication  from Barclays complaint team. However, as Ive found that Barclays  
acted appropriately  in reviewing the account, I dont believe compensation should be paid 
here. 
Overall, I recognise how strongly Ms K feels about  whats happened,  and I dont doubt  it was 
a frustrating and worrying time. So, I realise Ms K will be disappointed  by my decision. But 
overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Barclays have acted unreasonably or 
treated Ms K unfairly when it reviewed and suspended her account. So, Im not going  to ask 
them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Ref: DRN03465943Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0346594