K822xComplaint
Ms M complains that Santander UK Plc blocked  her accounts. Shes also unhappy that 
Santander hasnt  explained why. And says Santander took too long to release the funds in 
the accounts to her. She says this caused  her distress,  inconvenience  and financial 
problems. And she wants Santander  to pay her compensation.
Background 
Ms M had personal and business accounts with Santander.
This decision will focus on Ms Ms personal current and savings  accounts.  Ms Ms complaint 
about her business  account will be addressed separately in another  decision.
In early 2018, Ms M was involved in a police investigation. 
In February 2018,  Santander placed  a block  on Ms Ms accounts.  This meant she couldnt 
access the money in either account.  On 3 August 2018, Santander removed the blocks  and 
it allowed  Ms M to withdraw the balance of the accounts. Santander then closed the 
accounts. 
Ms M said the blocks  on her accounts  made life very difficult for her. Shes said she couldnt 
pay for everyday  living expenses; direct debits  were cancelled, and she had to pawn  
jewellery to get by. 
Ms M complained to Santander  about  not being  able to access  her accounts. Santander said 
it hadnt done anything wrong  when it blocked Ms Ms accounts.  And it had done  so to 
comply with its legal  and regulatory obligations.  And it had acted in accordance with the 
terms of the accounts.  Unhappy  with this response, Ms M brought her complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Ms complaint. She said Santander hadnt done  
anything wrong  when it blocked  Ms Ms accounts. However, she said Santander shouldve 
released Ms Ms funds  sooner. So, she said Santander should pay Ms M £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset  this had caused. And interest for loss of use of her 
funds as she felt Ms M wouldve been able to make  use of the money had it been released 
to her sooner. Santander agreed. Ms M didnt. She said the amount  of compensation offered 
doesnt reflect the financial losses, stress  and upset shes been caused. And that Santander  
should have removed the blocks  in May 2018. She says this is when  the police told her they 
had informed Santander it was no longer interested in her accounts.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN00848292Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation (which  includes the Financial Services  
and Markets Act 2000, the Proceeds  of Crime Act 2002, the Money Laundering Regulations 
2017 and the Financial  Conduct Authoritys financial crime requirements, place extensive 
obligations on regulated financial businesses to verify a customers  identity, establish the 
purpose and nature  of the business  relationship and the origin of funds. Businesses are also 
required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. Santander  has 
said that Ms Ms account  was blocked to meet these legal  requirements.
Ms M says she has no idea why Santander  blocked her accounts and it came  as a complete 
shock to her. She says the blocks  meant  she couldnt pay bills; direct debits were cancelled,  
and she couldnt  cover the costs of the care she was providing  for her elderly sick father. 
Whilst I understand Ms Ms strength of feeling,  as Ive already explained businesses have a 
legal obligation  to comply with various  laws and regulations. Having looked at the 
information Santander relied upon, Im satisfied  that Santander were  complying  with its legal 
and regulatory  obligations when it blocked Ms Ms accounts. So, I cant  say it has done 
anything wrong. The terms  and conditions of Ms Ms account also permit Santander to block 
an account. Having  considered those  terms, Im satisfied Santander acted  in line with them.  
I know Ms M wants  Santander to explain the reason it blocked her accounts. And I can 
understand Ms Ms frustration that she hasnt been provided a detailed  explanation. But as 
the investigator has explained,  Santander is under no obligation  to provide this information  to 
her, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant say Santander has done  anything  wrong by 
not providing this information to her. However, I can see that Santander wrote to Ms M and 
told her it was complying with its legal and regulatory  obligations  when it blocked her 
accounts. I also note that Ms M was in contact with the police at the time about access  to her 
accounts. So, all in all, I think its more likely than not Ms M had some understanding of why 
Santander blocked her accounts.  
 
release of funds
Ms M says Santander took too long to allow her access to her accounts. Shes argued that 
Santander was told by the police  in May 2018  that no action was being taken by them  
against her. So, she says it shouldve acted on that information and removed the blocks on 
her accounts. Santander accepts it should  have removed the blocks  from Ms Ms accounts 
earlier than it did. 
I acknowledge what Ms M says about  the police interest in her coming  to an end in 
May 2018. But Ive also looked at the other  evidence of notes of the banks records and 
enquiries it was making after this time regarding her accounts. And my review of this 
evidence points to Santander following its processes properly.  So even though Ms M says 
the police  no longer  had an interest  in her in May 2018, I cant  say it was unfair for 
Santander not to remove  the blocks in May 2018.  However, Santander has confirmed it 
finished everything it needed  to do by 8 June 2018. So, I think  Santander should have 
removed the blocks from her accounts  at this time. But it didnt do so until 3 August 2018  
nearly two months  later. And Santander hasnt  offered any explanation for this delay.
 
Ref: DRN00848293I can see that this delay has had an impact  on Ms M. Her bank  accounts  were blocked for 
two months longer than they shouldve  been.  During this time Ms M didnt have access  to 
the money in her accounts and I can see that two direct debit payments were cancelled.
If Santander had removed the blocks and closed her accounts on 8 June 2018, Ms M 
wouldve had access to her funds sooner. So, Im satisfied that she was caused some  
trouble and upset.
Weve asked Ms M to provide us with more information about how the delays impacted her. 
And despite providing Ms M with extra  time to do so she hasnt provided any evidence.  
So, I agree  with the investigator that £100 compensation is broadly fair.
In addition to this, Santander  should  add 8% interest  per year simple on the closing balance 
of each of Ms Ms accounts from 8 June  2018 until 3 August 2018. The reasoning  behind  
this is that Ms M wouldve  made use of the money in her accounts  sooner had there  been  no 
delay in removing  the account blocks.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ms complaint. To put things right 
Santander UK Plc should pay Ms M £100.00  compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by the delay in removing the blocks from Ms Ms personal accounts.
In addition to this, Santander  should  add 8% interest  per year simple on the closing balance 
of Ms Ms accounts of £1,544.19  (current account) and £18,823.33  (savings  account) from 
8 June 2018 until 3 August 2018.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander Bank UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0084829