K821x#15Complaint
Mr B complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  was irresponsible to lend 
him money  that he couldnt afford to repay.
Background
Mr B took out four loans  with Mr Lender between March 2013 and June 2016. 
Mr B says that he was borrowing from multiple  short term lenders at the time and that with 
better checks, Mr Lender wouldve discovered  this.
Mr B wants  Mr Lender to refund the interest and charges that he paid together  with interest 
on the refund.  Mr B wants  Mr Lender  to remove the negative  information  about the loans 
from his credit file.
Before this service became involved, Mr Lender offered to recall  loan four from the third 
party debt collection company and then write off the outstanding interest  and charges. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Bs complaint be upheld in part. He didnt think it was 
unreasonable of Mr Lender  to agree loans one and four. But given the repayments due on 
loans two and three  relative to Mr Bs declared income, the adjudicator thought that Mr 
Lender shouldve  known it was unlikely Mr B could sustainably afford to repay loans two and 
three.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Lender  refund  the interest and charges that Mr B had 
paid on the affected loans. And he asked Mr Lender to remove  any negative information 
about loans two and three  from Mr Bs credit  file.
Mr Lender doesnt agree  with the adjudicators recommendation because it says that it was a 
templated view and not a proper assessment.
Mr B has asked  us to take account of further information for loan four which  he says Mr 
Lender shouldve  reasonably been  aware of.
I understand that Mr B doesnt take issue with the non-uphold in relation to loan one so I 
dont plan to review this loan.  Instead I will concentrate  on the loans that remain in dispute.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
Ref: DRN08203302With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr 
Lender should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required  to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because first the OFTs Irresponsible  Lending  Guidance  and later the 
FCAs Consumer Credit  Sourcebook define  sustainable as being  without undue difficulties 
and in particular  the customer should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Loans two and three
Before agreeing loans two and three,  Mr B declared  his net monthly income to be £1,700.  Mr 
Lender also carried out some credit  checks.  The maximum repayment for loan two was £650 
and £715 for loan three. 
Mr Lender hasnt given  us evidence that it carried out further checks  that would have shown 
it was reasonable  to agree to lend to Mr B. Mr Lender hasnt, for example, told us that it 
asked Mr B about his monthly outgoings at the time of loans two and three.
Even without  a detailed consideration  of what Mr Lender might have found  out about  Mr Bs 
financial situation had it carried  out better checks, I dont consider that Mr Lender should  
have agreed loans two or three  because  the repayments took up a significant  proportion of 
his income. 
Ref: DRN08203303I consider Mr Lender shouldve known  that loans two and three werent sustainable.  
Particularly as Mr B borrowed from Mr Lender twice  in the same  month   indicating that he 
needed to fill the hole left by repaying loan two.
Overall, I find it reasonable to uphold Mr Bs complaint  about  loans two and three.
Loan four
There was a significant gap between Mr B repaying loan three  and applying  for loan four. I 
consider that it was fair of Mr Lender  to treat loan four as a new chain of lending.  In the 
absence of any evidence  to the contrary,  I cant say that Mr Lender was wrong to assume 
that Mr Bs financial situation had moved  on from whatever had required him to borrow 
money in 2013.
The maximum monthly repayment that Mr Lender expected Mr B to repay was £167. Mr 
Lender says that Mr B declared  a monthly  income of £1,950 with outgoings  of £1,200.  Based 
on this information,  it appeared that Mr B could afford loan four.
I appreciate that Mr Bs financial situation  was worse  than he disclosed to Mr Lender at the 
time, but there was nothing of concern in Mr Lenders credit checks  that shouldve prompted 
further questions. Although Mr Bs own credit  report shows  some negative information,  I 
cant say that Mr Lender knew about this  particularly as a consumers own credit report will 
often show more detailed  information than a lender  can see.
It follows that I dont require Mr Lender to do anything about loan four.
Putting things  right  what  Mr Lender needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr B paid on loans two and three;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
remove any negative information  about loans two and three from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and direct  PDL Finance Limited 
(trading as Mr Lender) to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.  
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0820330