K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs Y say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ys circumstances  at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And they said that, although BoS 
says it didnt do anything  wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made  an offer 
as if it had.
Mr and Mrs Ys representative disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ys. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ys complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided BoS didnt need to tell Mr and Mrs 
Y about the commission  it received  - so BoS doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs Y paid for the PPI. But in any event BoS has offered to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything  more. Ive summarised 
my reasons  for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs Y didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ys mortgage 
application form that had a separate  section for PPI. Mr and Mrs Y have signed in that 
section to confirm  that they would like to take advantage of the cover. Based on the 
wording and layout  of the form,  I consider  that Mr and Mrs Y would have known that they 
Ref: DRN00152022didnt have to buy PPI. It seems to me that they decided to buy it, knowing that they 
didnt have to.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs Y so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them. And the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ys circumstances at the time, shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  For example  Mr and Mrs Y 
were eligible for the cover  and although  they had some existing means they still seem to 
have had a need  for cover. 
Mr and Mrs Y say that Mrs Y turned  60 during the term of the cover and therefore 
wouldnt have been able to make a claim after that point.  However, there was no upper 
age limit on the policy. The policy ended when the mortgage ended or upon  retirement,  
whichever came first.
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Ys employment or occupation which would have  
made it difficult for them to claim. And although Mr and Mrs Y both had medical 
conditions when the policy was taken out, the PPI did not exclude pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs Y about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Ive found  that they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover.  The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs Y as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably  thought they were buying 
from the information they were  given. So it seems like it would have been useful for them 
if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs Y would have declined  
the cover  had BoS done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ys circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So I think they 
would have still thought they had some good  reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs Y would have  still taken out PPI. I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ys representative has raised  a number of what  I consider  to be general  
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should  have  disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ys representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ys individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ys particular  
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
Ref: DRN00152023reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs Y.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has offered  to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it 
needs to do. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Ys representative has made  a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs Y should  get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  BoS failed to tell Mr and Mrs Y about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions  and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should  find that Mr and Mrs Y wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  had they known about  the level of commission and they should  receive  a 
refund of all the premiums  they paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ys PPI was less than 
half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how BoS has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr and Mrs Ys case  was 
less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed  to tell Mr and Mrs Y about the commission. So it follows that I dont 
think the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think BoS treated Mr and Mrs 
Y unfairly.  This means BoS doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs Y back  any of the commission  
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN00152024they paid for the PPI. But in any event  BoS has offered to give back  to Mr and Mrs Y some 
of the cost of the PPI to compensate Mr and Mrs Y as if it had treated them unfairly. So I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold  the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Ys complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank  of Scotland plc didnt need  to disclose the commission  it 
received, it doesnt  need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs Y paid for the PPI. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
Y. Bank of Scotland plc should  now make  arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs Y if it hasnt 
done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2021.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0015202