K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with what  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has offered to do to put 
things right following  his complaint  about the sale of payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
RBS sold Mr H PPI alongside a loan. Mr H thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
RBS investigated  the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  It worked  out the 
compensation would be £2,630.62. But in 2011  Mr H had granted a trust deed under  
Scottish insolvency law. This is a less formal alternative to sequestration, and meant that 
Mr H hadnt repaid everything he owed RBS at the point he entered  the trust deed. So RBS 
proposed to first deduct the compensation  from what Mr H hadnt repaid.
Mr H wasnt happy about this. He contacted RBS to say he wasnt happy  and he crossed 
out the parts of the acceptance form for the offer that referred to trust deeds  and arrears.  
RBS replied to say it didnt accept  these changes to the offer.
As Mr H wasnt happy with RBSs response, he referred the complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 November  2019.  I said that based on 
what Id seen I thought what RBS proposed to do was fair. I explained that the law requires 
me to decide  cases based on what, in my opinion, was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.  The rules  that apply  to this service also say that in considering 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case  I will take into account  
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
I said that the relevant law in this case was the law of Scotland,  or Scots  law. I noted that in 
some cases  the Scottish courts had said that PPI redress can be paid directly to the 
consumer, even though they didnt repay  everything they owed when they entered  the trust 
deed. 
In particular, I mentioned  two cases. In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme 
Court said that a consumer, not the trustee of a trust deed, was entitled to his PPI 
compensation because his standard  form trust deed  was terminated on the final distribution 
of the estate, which had taken place  before either  the consumer or the trustee knew of the 
potential PPI claim.
In Donnelly  v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2017] SAC (Civ) 1 the Sheriff Appeal Court said 
that a business couldnt  use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce  a debt from which  
she was discharged when her trust deed came to an end.
But though  Id taken into account the law, I didnt  think  this would be fair in this case. 
RBS had told us that when  Mr H entered the trust deed he owed  them £5,777.34  which 
includes what he owed towards  the loan, plus what he owed to his current  account. 
Following the trust deed, Mr H didnt need to pay all of this back;  it looked  as though at least 
£3,457.18 was written  off. This is more than RBS had worked out it needed to pay because 
of the PPI  and the trust deed meant that RBS cant now make Mr H repay  the amount he 
didnt repay.  
Ref: DRN09385522I didnt think it would  be fair to make  RBS pay Mr H the compensation directly when he didnt 
have to repay a far larger sum following  the trust deed. I noted  that where a complaint  about 
the sale of PPI is upheld, wed expect the business to put the consumer as far as possible in 
the position hed be in if he hadnt  bought the policy. If Mr H hadnt bought the PPI, I thought 
hed still have ended up in a trust deed, but owed less. And thats  the position RBSs  offer 
puts him in.
Finally, the only reason  Mr H would  get this money now is because he didnt complain about 
the sale of PPI until after the end of the trust deed. If hed complained before that point then 
RBS would have  been allowed to deduct the compensation from what hed owed  or it 
could have been paid to Mr Hs trust deed  for the benefit of his other creditors.  He would not 
have received the money directly.
For these reasons, I felt it was fair for RBS to deduct what Mr H didnt repay it as part of the 
trust deed from the PPI compensation.
Mr H had raised some further  points  about  how RBS had looked at his complaint. First, hed 
made handwritten changes to the acceptance  form RBS sent him with the offer  he said 
hed done this following a discussion with RBS.  I said Id listened to the calls, but it looked as 
though Mr H had suggested making  these changes and I couldnt see that RBS had agreed 
to accept these  changes.  I said Mr H couldnt change  the terms of an offer just by crossing 
out parts of the firm.
Second, Mr H said he was led to believe hed receive a payment. But having listened  to the 
calls, I thought it was clear that RBS needed  to look into Mr Hs trust deed further before it 
could say what this meant  for Mr Hs compensation. I was also mindful that a letter RBS sent 
Mr H also mentioned trust deeds and arrears  and it appears this was why Mr H rang them 
to question it.
Finally, Mr H had said RBS had only found  out about the trust deed  after hed told RBS 
about it. But I felt it more likely that RBS would  have checked this  and details of the trust 
deed appeared in the Edinburgh Gazette. In any case, I didnt think this made  a difference to 
what would  be fair in Mr Hs case.
I said Id consider any further comments I received  by 18 December 2019 before I issued a 
final decision.
RBS replied to say they had nothing to add but says that according to its records  the amount 
left unpaid following  the trust deed was £5,777.34.
Mr H also replied. Hes referred me to an appeal in one of the cases  Ive mentioned  above.  
He also asked to see any reference material or policies I relied on in reaching my provisional 
findings.
Ive now considered the complaint again.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN09385523First, I will explain how I decide complaints.  The Financial Ombudsman Service was set up 
by Parliament under Part XVI of the Financial  Services  and Markets Act 2000. This provides 
for a scheme under which certain  disputes may be resolved quickly and with minimum 
formality by an independent person.
Section 228(2) of this Act says
A complaint is to be determined by reference to what is, in the opinion of the 
ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
In addition, there are rules  in the Financial Conduct  Authoritys handbook which set out 
things I must consider  when deciding what is fair and reasonable. This is Dispute Resolution  
Rule 3.6.4R, which says that
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case,  the 
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1)relevant:
(a)law and regulations
(b)regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c)codes of practice; and
(2)(where appropriate)  what  he considers  to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Mr H has also asked for copies of reference material  used to reach my decision. I explained 
the case law Id considered in my provisional decision. I see weve  also referred  Mr H to 
general information on our website  explaining our approach to the sale of PPI generally,  to 
the calculation  of compensation and to how ombudsmen reach  decisions.
In Mr Hs case, RBS has already agreed the PPI was mis-sold,  and so the question for me to 
decide is whether  what it has done  to put things right is fair. 
Ive carefully considered  the points Mr H has raised. But my conclusion remains the same  as 
in my provisional decision.  Ill explain  why.
RBS has worked out the compensation for mis-selling PPI would be £2,630.62. This includes 
the total cost of the PPI and interest (£1,345.20)  plus compensation for the time Mr H has 
been out of pocket.
This is less than the amount Mr H didnt have  to repay at the end of his trust deed. RBS cant  
now chase Mr H for this money   the debt no longer exists. But Im mindful  that the PPI was 
connected to debts that were included in the trust deed. I dont think it would be fair to make  
RBS pay this compensation when, following the trust deed, Mr H didnt have to repay 
everything he owed.
When I decide a complaint  about  the sale of PPI should be upheld,  Id expect the 
compensation to put the consumer in the financial position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
bought the policy. I think  that if Mr H hadnt been  sold PPI, hed still have entered the trust 
deed, but owed less. And thats  the position  RBSs offer puts him in.
Ref: DRN09385524As RBS has done what Id expect it to do, Im not going to tell them  to make a further award.
Ive carefully considered  Mr Hs comments in response to my provisional findings. Mr H has 
drawn my attention  to a recent judgment of the Inner House  of the Court of Session in the 
appeal by The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC v Donnelly [2019] CSIH 56. This confirmed the 
Sheriff Appeal Court ruling I mentioned in my provisional decision, and said that the creditor 
couldnt use its offer of PPI compensation to pay down the amount that wasnt repaid after 
the trust deed  ended.
But while I have carefully considered this ruling,  I am not bound  to follow it. Im satisfied that 
I must decide this case based on whats fair and reasonable  in the particular circumstances 
of Mr Hs complaint  as required of me under the Financial Services and Markets  Act and 
the Dispute resolution  rules.
Ive considered Mr Hs other  points,  but they dont change my conclusions.
Mr H has a free choice whether to accept my decision or not. If he doesnt agree, he can 
reject it.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland  plc to use Mr Hs PPI 
compensation to reduce the monies owed and left unpaid when Mr Hs trust deed came  to 
an end. I dont make a further  award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0938552