K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Coventry Building Society  (Coventry)  mis-sold  them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs L bought  the policy in 2001 sometime after taking out a mortgage in 1999. They 
applied for the PPI policy by filling out a form. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs L for unemployment only  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £520 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  balance in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £16.11 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs L was employed  as a sales order supervisor. She has told us she was 
entitled to redundancy pay which would have likely been the equivalent  of a few months 
salary. Mr and Mrs L say they had some  savings but I havent seen any evidence  of this and 
I dont know how much they had. 
Coventry has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account  opened  in May 1999 and 
closed in October 2004. 
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ls representative says:
Coventry failed to meet the sales  standards  which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs L 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ls representatives  believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Coventry should have 
told Mr and Mrs L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Coventry should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs L 
and the impact they would have had on Mrs Ls chances of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
Ref: DRN05172892The information Mr and Mrs L received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs L disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Coventry, selling  insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN05172893The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Coventry at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr 
and Mrs Ls case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Coventry was required  to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
Ref: DRN05172894key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Coventry gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs L with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Coventry gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs L, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs L 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs L 
and Coventry, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs L know they had a choice?
Coventry had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  The PPI wasnt  taken at the 
same time the mortgage was sold. It wasnt until about 2  years  later that Mrs L applied for 
the cover. So Mr and Mrs L would have known they didnt need to take the PPI to have their 
mortgage, because  it had already been running for a while.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs L knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Coventry provide  advice?
Both Coventry and Mr and Mrs L agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale.  
This means  Coventry didnt have to check  if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs L. Instead, 
it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs L were given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if Mrs L was 
unable to work through involuntary  unemployment)  and of the approximate  costs. Ive 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs L would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
Ref: DRN05172895But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Coventry  gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs L 
agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think Coventry gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ls representative has raised a 
number of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ls. Ive considered  these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ls representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs L about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good  
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs L have suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Coventry ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Coventrys shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs L? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs L suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Coventry didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs L. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs L would  have still taken out the policy, had Coventry done  things  properly. 
Mr and Mrs L say they would not have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs L had to weigh  up in their own minds  the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mrs L being unable to work.  
Ref: DRN05172896As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs L chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs L thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this differed 
is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs L have suffered any loss or 
detriment. 
The information Mr and Mrs L were  given about the benefit was clear.  But the information 
about other aspects  of the policy, such as the cost, limitations and exclusions wasnt as clear 
as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Coventry told them the exact  premium  at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs L would have been 
told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its likely they 
would have raised that with Coventry  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs L would have  found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs L thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs L 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr and Mrs L pause for thought   and may well have caused  them  to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs L from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mrs L was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mrs L 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs L was in permanent 
employment. So, I still think  they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
Coventry may not have told Mr and Mrs L that any claim Mrs L made  would be limited to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for. 
But Mrs Ls was likely  significantly less than 12 months income.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs L would still have thought  a policy  that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mrs L be unable  to work in the circumstances  
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
Ref: DRN05172897their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time, ensure their home was not placed at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mrs Ls redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs L would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mrs L was made  redundant.  In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L would have  taken out the policy  in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP  App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs L would not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ls circumstances  as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr 
and Mrs L found  themselves  in as a result  of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs L believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs L in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Coventry  should  pay Mr and Mrs L compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs L think Coventry  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
Ref: DRN05172898of Coventrys statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Coventry failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Coventry  gave Mr and Mrs L, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2001 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ls representative  says a court might take if 
it were to find Coventry negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs L and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Coventry had been in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs L in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2020.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0517289