K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains about the way Great Lakes dealt with a claim she made  under the mobile
phone insurance  policy she held with it.
background
Miss C made an accidental damage  claim under her mobile phone insurance and her phone
was sent off to be repaired.
When Miss Cs phone was returned  to her she had further problems with it, and it was 
returned to Great Lakes a second  time.  When Great Lakes received Miss Cs phone it told 
Miss C it couldnt assess the damage  under the same claim as the phone had further 
physical damage  present  that wasnt on the phone after the first repair. It therefore asked 
Miss C to pay a second policy excess.
Miss C says that the damage must have been caused by Great  Lakes but agreed to pay the 
excess to get her phone  assessed.
Great Lakes assessed  Miss Cs phone and found that it wasnt possible to repair,  so it 
provided a new replacement phone to Miss C, but Miss C has continued to have similar 
problems with the new phone.
Great Lakes has explained to Miss C that as its a new phone she should either contact the 
manufacturer directly  to deal with the issue under  its warranty or return it to them so they can
send it off to the manufacturer for her.
In my provisional decision sent on 2 December 2019  I explained why I didnt think this 
complaint should  be upheld.  I said:
When Miss C claimed on her insurance it was for damage that had occurred  as a result of 
an accident. Great Lakes  has explained  that the repair it carried out to Miss Cs phone 
included the replacement of the back cover, and that when Miss C experienced further 
problems with the phone it sent her protective packaging so it could be returned to them  for 
further inspection.
Upon receipt of Miss Cs phone Great Lakes didnt notice any damage to the packaging but 
when it assessed  the phone there was a crack  in the newly replaced back  cover.
I appreciate it isnt possible to know exactly how the damage occurred to the back of 
Miss Cs phone when  it was returned to Great Lakes but I think, considering the packaging 
used, that on balance the damage was not caused by Great Lakes. So, as its likely Miss Cs 
phone sustained further damage after her first claim, I think its fair that Great Lakes  
requested a second excess  payment  before it assessed the issues she was having  with her
phone.
Great Lakes replaced  Miss Cs phone with a new phone  came with a manufacturer warranty,  
and I think it acted reasonably in saying any issues experienced with the new phone should 
be dealt with under the manufacturer warranty. There are often benefits  of having devices 
repaired directly with the manufacturer and it is likely the manufacturer warranty would 
become void if a third party carried out a repair on the phone. Great  Lakes has also offered 
to pass on the phone to the manufacturer if Miss C doesnt want to contact them  directly.
Ref: DRN02461182my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But as neither side responded with 
anything further  for me to consider I see no reason to come  to a different  decision to that 
explained above.
my final decision
Based on what Ive said above  and in my provisional  decision I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0246118