K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ws representative, Mr W, complains  on her behalf about the service  and management 
of her investment by Barclays  Bank  UK PLC, following her request  to transfer funds.
In short,  Mr W says Barclays failed to do the following:
Provide timely access to her accounts.
Comply with HM Revenue and Customs  regulations. 
Calculate the compensation correctly.  
Provide customer care. 
Investigate  the complaint properly. 
background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
The £150 compensation offered in relation  to the failure to provide  timely access to 
the accounts  following migration to the smart investor platform  by the introduction 
of the two-factor  authentication  process and poor communication  was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
The decision to migrate to a new platform was a decision Barclays  was entitled to 
make, in the exercise  of its legitimate  commercial judgement. Theres nothing  within  
its terms and conditions that said it couldnt offer a telephone only service.  
In relation to the non-compliance with HMRC  regulations, it required businesses  to 
complete cash ISA transfers  within 15 business days  and 30 days  for stocks and 
shares ISA. Looking at the time scale offered by Barclays, its clear  there  were  
errors, and the £100 compensation offered by Barclays doesnt adequately 
compensate for this. He thinks the business should pay another  £200  for this and the 
overall poor service  provided.  
Mr W has questioned some  of the dates  Barclays used to calculate £6.06  for the 
cash delay which included  8% simple interest  (less tax)  which is in line with how 
our service would calculate compensation. 
The compensation for the delay in cash transfer isnt suitable  and is partly  why £200 
was suggested.   
In relation to not processing the subject access request (SAR) the letter  dated  the 29 
June 2019 made clear  that the request was being processed and that itd need Mrs 
Ws signature. The email chain dated 6 November 2018 until 3 January 2019 
confirms that there were ongoing issues, but its not entirely clear if the SAR was 
made for Mr W or Mrs W. In any case, in light of the new General Data Protection  
Regulations (GDPR)  which replaces the Data Protection Act 1988  - the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) is better placed  with deciding any data protection  
breaches by Barclays. Its not our role to determine this issue.  
Hes satisfied that shes  a vulnerable  customer and that Barclays  should do more to 
enable Mr W to help manage her finances.  
In short  Barclays should  pay another £250 compensation for trouble and upset, in 
addition to the £250 it has already paid.   
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators  view. He made a substantial  number of points, but 
in summary, he maintains  that the compensation offered is inadequate.  He also doesnt feel 
Ref: DRN07477652that the complaint has been  investigated correctly and is concerned about the information 
likely to be submitted to or made  available for the ombudsman. 
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint.
 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr W or Barclays says I think  the 
business should pay an additional  £250  compensation for the delays,  lack of access to her 
information and overall poor service it provided. 
I should also make clear that given the small uplift in compensation - £200  to £250  I dont 
think a provisional  decision is necessary  in the circumstances.  
But before I explain  why, I think its important for me to recognise Mrs Ws frustration  and 
strength of feeling  about this matter.  Mr W has provided detailed submissions to support the 
complaint, which  Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mrs W wont  take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider  to be the central issues, and not in as much  detail, 
as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr W and Barclays,  and reach what I think is 
an independent,  fair and reasonable decision  based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. I dont think this process is against  natural justice.  
I agree  with the investigators view that any question  specifically relating to any data 
protection breach is better dealt with by the ICO. Its not for our organisation to specifically 
determine whether  there has been a data breach. 
Im aware that there is a SAR in operation against our organisation, again  that isnt an issue  I 
need to consider before reaching a decision in this case. Neither is the topic  of any of the 
service complaints that are being dealt  with by a manager. 
In respect of the delay, despite  what Mr W says, Im aware that transfers  can take up to 12 
weeks. Although I dont think Barclays deliberately set out to mislead Mrs W, it should have 
managed her expectations  better, and set out realistic time scales  in the circumstances. 
Notwithstanding what Mr W says about  the 14 weeks delay  so possibly two weeks over the 
Ref: DRN07477653maximum time transfers can take  in this instance  I dont think £100 compensation offered 
by Barclays is adequate. Im mindful  that Barclays now agrees this isnt enough. 
Im also aware Mr W says that:
HMRC are abundantly  clear and state that ISA transfers should (my emphasis)take  no 
longer than: 15 working days  for a cash  ISA and a cash Lifetime ISA or 30 working  days for 
a stocks and shares ISA, investments  held in an innovative finance ISA and stocks  and 
shares in a Lifetime ISA. 
But in my opinion  the word  should  doesnt in this context mean it is mandatory but instead 
recommendatory. In other words theres  no suggestion from HMRC that the transaction  must 
complete within  those time limits. 
Im aware from having dealt with similar complaints against Barclays  it has said that any 
payments received on the account  after the transfer  being completed can take up to 90 days  
to be transferred to the new provider. And during this process  the account will be in a 
"Closing" status,  but that it will monitor the account for 90 days, which  will allow  any 
payments to be made on the account.
That aside, Barclays accepts that overall  it fell short of the standard  Mrs W could expect. I 
dont think theres any dispute about the trouble she experienced  in relation to the 
suspension and trying to access the platform.  
Im also mindful of Mr Ws views  about the new platform, but its a matter  for Barclays, in the 
exercise of its legitimate  commercial judgement, as to how it runs its business. Its not 
generally our place to interfere with this process.  
Despite what Mr W says about  losses, on the face of the evidence and on balance Im 
unable to safely say Mrs W has suffered any additional losses   aside from the £6.06  
Barclays has agreed to pay. Despite what  Mr W says about  potential missed opportunities, 
Ive seen no evidence  of Mrs W trying  to trade during this period. 
And coming  back to the issue of the £6.06 redress, despite what  Mr W says,  Ive seen no 
suggestion that Barclays has done anything  wrong with its methodology or the decision to 
deduct tax. 
Theres also nothing that Ive seen that prevents Barclays from making  the new service 
telephone only.  Again I think  its a decision Barclays is entitled to make in the exercise of its 
legitimate commercial judgement, and its not for us to tell it how to run its business. 
Im mindful that Mrs W had the opportunity to trade  over the telephone despite what  she may 
have done, and preferred to do, traditionally.  I think had she called Barclays  in order to trade, 
it was more likely than not it wouldve been able to sort her request out, or possibly  make  an 
exception in her case. It might be something that Mr W can discuss  on her behalf. In the 
circumstances Im unable  to agree the business  stopped her from trading or caused further 
loss.
Whilst I think the £150 for the loss of access issues is broadly fair and reasonable. I dont 
think the £100 compensation offered by Barclays for the delay and overall poor service is fair 
in the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN07477654I think given the overall  delays  and poor service,  Barclays should pay an additional £250  
compensation. In my opinion this takes  into account  the impact  this is likely to have had on 
Mrs W, who I think is a potentially vulnerable customer. 
Im mindful of what Mr W says about  what he thinks our service ought  to do. But I think hes 
also right to say To retain trust in the financial system it is vital that the regulator firmly 
enforces these rules,  albeit in relation to the HMRC  rules. 
Its not our role to sanction a business  that is the role of the industry  regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (the FCA). Our role is separate and distinct  to the role of the FCA. Our 
role is to determine if the business has done anything wrong and, if so, thereafter to decide 
what compensation is due to put the complainant  back in the position   or as close to the 
position as possible   they wouldve been in but for the error. 
Im unable to ask Barclays to change  its complaints  procedure but I hope  that it will take on 
board Mr Ws comments. 
  
I appreciate Mrs W will be unhappy Ive reached  the same  conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what she wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to give her what she wants. 
my final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs W £500 compensation for the overall trouble and 
upset caused,  less any monies  paid already.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0747765