K820x#14complaint
Mr As glasses  broke whilst he was on holiday abroad. Hes unhappy  that his travel  insurer  
UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) wont cover his claim under  his travel insurance policy in full. 
Mr A wants  UKI to cover  his entire  claim  and to apologise for the poor handling of it. 
Background
Mr A was on holiday abroad when his glasses broke. Mr A travelled to a nearby  optician by 
taxi to have his glasses repaired. Fortunately,  the lenses werent damaged.  Therefore, the 
optician put Mr As lenses  into alternative  frames. The only compatible frames were  ladies 
frames. But as the next opticians were around  90 kilometres  away,  Mr A decided that he 
would accept the ladies frames as a workaround during his holiday.  The new frames cost 
Mr A around £100. 
Mr A contacted UKI to claim for the replacement glasses. UKI were  happy to settle the claim 
immediately. They advised  Mr A that there was a £50 excess.  So, he was offered a 
settlement of around £50. However, UKI agreed  that if Mr A preferred to, he could purchase 
a like for like set of frames in the UK and claim for these instead. Mr A declined  the 
settlement offers  and stated that he wanted to claim for more.  Mr A wrote to UKI claiming for 
the following;
The taxi fare to and from the opticians: £10.00.
Future fitting of his lenses to new frames in the UK: £135.00.
The frames  already obtained abroad: around £100.
Interruption of holiday  loss of enjoyment: £125.00. 
Compilation of claim and postage costs: £60.00.
Mr A felt that the loss of use of his glasses was a medical matter and should be considered 
under the Medical and Emergency Costs section of the policy  and not the Personal 
Possessions section. 
Mr A referred to the Medical  and Emergency  Costs  section  of his policy. It states UKI will 
provide cover for taxi expenses up to £20 per day in total, which are medically necessary to 
transport the insured  person(s) to a medical facility  for treatment. Mr A felt that without his 
glasses he would not be able to see properly  and that this was a medical issue.  Mr A didnt 
receive any treatment at the opticians.  
UKI considered Mr As revised  claim. They stated the breakage  of his frames was covered 
under the Personal Possessions  section  of the policy and not under  the Medical and 
Emergency Costs section.  UKI said that they would not cover the taxi, the holiday 
interruption or the cost of compiling the information for the claim, as these were  not covered 
under the Personal Possessions  section  of the policy or the Medical  Expenses section. 
However, UKI again offered  to cover either:
New like for like frames purchased in the UK on production  of a receipt, or
The frames  that Mr A had purchased  abroad. 
Ref: DRN00657162UKI reiterated that all Personal Possession claims were subject to a £50 excess.  
Mr A didnt accept UKIs offer and brought a complaint to our service. Mr A wanted UKI to 
cover his claim in its entirety,  and to apologise for poor complaint handling. Mr A was also 
unhappy that he hadnt been sent the updated insurance policy booklet. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint. The investigator agreed  that the breakage of 
the glasses was a Personal  Possession claim and that UKIs  actions had been  fair and 
reasonable in assessing  the claim. 
UKI accepted the investigators view.  But Mr A didnt, so he asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having listened  to the calls between Mr A and UKI and reviewed  the evidence  provided by 
both sides. Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr As complaint. Ill explain why. 
In my decision Im going to look at the following points, as I consider these are the key ones:
Should UKI cover  all aspects of Mr As claim?  
Was Mr As claim dealt with promptly and fairly?
The terms and conditions  of Mr As travel insurance  policy state:
Personal items of value covered under  the insurance policy include spectacles. 
UKI will deduct  an excess  of £50 for damaged personal possessions. 
As I said,  UKI offered to settle Mr As claim immediately. However,  Mr A wasnt happy with 
the settlement  after the excess was applied so he decided to revise his claim. UKI offered to 
cover the cost of the replacement glasses that Mr A had purchased abroad or on production  
of a receipt,  they would  cover the cost of like for like glasses purchased in the UK. I think 
UKIs actions were fair and reasonable here, as theyve offered Mr A exactly  what  he is 
entitled to under the terms of his policy, as mentioned above.
UKI confirmed their position  to Mr A twice  in correspondence after Mr A had revised his 
claim. They stated that they could only cover one pair of frames.  They  also explained that 
there was a £50 excess for any Personal Possessions claim. Therefore, I dont think  UKI 
could have done any more to assist  Mr A with his claim. 
Mr A has claimed £60 compensation to cover  his costs dealing  with the claim and postage.  
There is no provision in the policy to cover  postage  costs associated  with the claim. So, I 
dont think Mr A is entitled to compensation for these costs. And I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable for UKI to reimburse  Mr A for this. This isnt something  that is normally  
covered by an insurance policy,  as dealing with the administration of the claim is something 
consumers are expected  to do to progress their claim. 
Ref: DRN00657163Im satisfied that UKI were entitled, under  the terms and conditions of the policy,  to assess  
this claim under the Personal Possessions  section. And to deduct £50 from any settlement. 
This is because the glasses are personal property,  so its appropriate for UKI to consider a 
claim for them under this section of the policy. And Ive checked, and Im satisfied the policy 
documentation makes  it clear UKI is entitled  to deduct a £50 excess. This means, UKI have 
done what I would have expected them to do in respect of Mr As claim for his glasses. 
As Mr A didnt travel  to the opticians  for medical  treatment, his taxi fare to and from the opticians 
isnt covered under the policy. Mr A isnt entitled to any compensation for the interruption of his 
holiday or the time he spent having his glasses repaired under the terms of his policy. So, I think  
UKIs decision not to pay anything  for these things  was fair and reasonable. 
Mr A states that he wasnt sent the updated  policy booklet. Ive spoken to Mr A, he says the 
last policy  booklet  he was sent was valid from June 2016 to September 2017. I havent been 
able to establish why Mr A wasnt sent the most  up to date booklet, but Im happy  to see that 
UKI have  now provided Mr A with this. And  in any event - cover under the relevant 
sections was the same in the booklet  Mr A said he had. 
I accept that not having the right booklet caused Mr A some inconvenience  and that he 
would not have been aware that the Personal Possessions section hadnt  changed  until he 
had the up to date booklet.  But I dont think the distress and inconvenience caused by this 
issue was significant  enough to warrant compensation, especially as UKI sent Mr A an up to 
date booklet as soon as he requested one. 
When an insurer is contacted by a customer after an incident,  Id expect them to assist their 
customer by making reasonable efforts to gather all the evidence  and deal with the claim 
promptly and fairly.  I dont think that it would be fair and reasonable for me to ask UKI to 
apologise to Mr A, as I think they did this and so dealt  with Mr As complaint in a fair and 
prompt manner. UKI offered to settle  Mr As claim during that first call. They  said Mr A could 
claim for one pair of glasses, and UKI were happy  for Mr A to decide which  pair he claimed 
for. I think UKIs actions  here displayed fair and prompt  handling of the claim.
UKI have  already offered  to cover, the frames  that Mr A had purchased  abroad or new like 
for like frames purchased  in the UK on production of a receipt. Theyve confirmed that this 
offer is still open to Mr A. Mr A should contact UKI directly if he now wishes to accept this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020. 
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0065716