K821x#15complaint
Mr A says Trade  Facts  Ltd (TF) did as follows:
Induced him to engage in Contracts for Differences (CFD)  trading on the basis of a 
misrepresentation (about achieving a good Initial Public  Offering (IPO) investment in 
Alibaba Group (AG). This was his first investment in the advisory  CFD account he 
opened in late 2014 and it led to a significant  loss because of the misrepresentation. 
He thereafter  lost all of his account deposit(s)  around £10,000   in other trades.
The advisory CFD account  was unsuitable  for him  he had no prior knowledge of or 
experience in CFDs and they were too risky for him.
TF did not explain  the high risks of CFD trading to him.
background
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded it should be upheld. In the 
main, she referred to the following:
Mr As assertion that he had no knowledge  of or experience  in CFDs prior to opening 
the account and in his assertion  that he opened  the account because of the AG IPO 
investment pursuit.
Evidence in a TF advisers  notes  which confirmed,  at the time, that Mr As only 
experience seems to be stocks  ISAs.
Evidence of the suitability assessment   for Mr A  conducted by TF confirmed that 
he was 35 years old, married and with two dependents; that he had £34,600 in 
annual disposable  income; that his assets (jointly held with his wife) were £36,000 in 
shareholdings and £10,000 in cash savings; that his objective was growth; and that 
his attitude to risk (ATR) was medium.
[His jointly held liquid  net assets were  recorded  as £34,500.]
The investigator considered as follows:
It was TFs regulatory duty to ensure it recommended CFD trading to Mr A only if it 
was suitable for him.
TF gave Mr A risk warnings and suggestions  to take independent  advice in this 
respect. However, the warnings did not remove its regulatory duty in terms of 
suitability of its advice  and the suggestion  to take independent advice was redundant 
given that it was a regulated firm that provided  an advisory investment service to him.
In light of the fact that Mr A had no prior CFD trading experience, had a medium 
ATR, had a growth objective and in light of the high level of commission  charged  by 
TF (around £8,000 of Mr As £10,000  (plus) loss went to TF in commission) CFD 
trading and the CFD account was unsuitable for him. The complaint should be upheld 
for these reasons  and redress should be based  on a benchmark  comparison 
exercise that reflects his medium  ATR. He should also be paid £250  for the trouble 
and upset caused to him in the matter.
TF disagreed with this outcome. It mainly said:
Mr A actively sought to open the account and initiated some  of the contacts in this 
respect. After opening the account, he wilfully consented to all trade  
recommendations and never complained about  them.
Ref: DRN02315232It is inaccurate to say Mr A was induced to open the account by the prospect of the 
AG IPO investment. He made this investment on 19 September  2014  (and invested  
no further in AG) but had previously,  on 17 September, made  four other investments 
in the account.
The investigators reference to the commission it earned is incorrect. It earned  
around £6,800  in commission from Mr As trades   not around  £8,000  as the 
investigator stated.
The description relevant to Mr As medium ATR assessment allowed for some short 
term risks in order  to achieve  long term growth.
Mr A had previous  experience in Alternative Investment Market (AIM) trading, where 
the risks are comparable  to CFD trading; furthermore, in terms of risk exposure, his 
account size was capped at £17,250  (50% of his net liquid  assets).
There is evidence that Mr A was given  risk warnings on at least  six occasions.
The redress proposed  by the investigator is unsuitable for the account Mr A had as 
the benchmark she used does not reflect the nature  of the account  (and the trades 
within it).
The investigator did not change her view.  The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is perhaps noteworthy that I have,  in the past, determined  complaints  about the suitability  
(or otherwise) of TFs advisory  CFD accounts.  Each  was addressed  on its own merit and, in 
the course of doing so, a number of them were not upheld. However, I have considered      
Mr As case  on its own merit  and, for the reasons given below (and given in response to TFs 
main points), I conclude that his complaint is upheld. On balance,  the CFD account  and the 
CFD trading  within it were  unsuitable  for him  in this respect, I note that TF concedes that 
its advisory service is based  only on CFD trading.
Mr As experience
As the investigator  said, there evidence of TF recording  that Mr As investment experience 
was limited to stocks ISA. However,  it is also fair to say that this happened at the outset of 
its contact with Mr A (in April 2014), a number  of months before the suitability  assessment  in 
September 2014. That assessment confirmed  that he had no more than one years 
experience in investments. It is described  in the printed  suitability assessment document  as 
mostly AIM experience, however additional  details do not appear to have been  recorded in 
this respect. The same  applies to the earlier reference to stocks  ISA.
I understand TFs attempt to draw  a comparison between AIM investments and CFD trading, 
but I am not persuaded by it. AIM investments can indeed hold higher risks than what  could 
be viewed as mainstream stock investments. However, the leveraged nature of CFD trading 
(which can significantly multiply profits  but, notably, can also significantly multiply losses  and 
the risk of loss) arguably defeats the point  that TF seeks to make. This makes the level of 
risks in leverage and derivative based  CFD trading less comparable to the level of risks in 
direct AIM investments.
Ref: DRN02315233Overall and on balance,  I consider  that Mr As investment experience  was somewhere 
between mainstream  and AIM stock investments. This was limited to only one year, during 
which  as stated  in the assessment document  he invested once or twice a month.  In 
contrast, and as TF would have known, CFD trading required a much higher frequency  in 
order to make it viable. His account  was active  for around 10 months, during which  he made 
around 150 trades so this equated  to an average  of around 15 trades  per months   an 
increase in frequency that was significantly more than he was accustomed to. This ought 
reasonably to have  been  foreseeable to TF and ought to have  been  foreseen as a potential 
element of unsuitability.  
I do not suggest a generic finding on what would or would not have been a suitable  length of 
investment experience (and suitable  frequency) for CFD trading, but in Mr As case  I am not 
persuaded that one years experience of making  one or two mainstream or AIM investments 
lent itself to the high leveraged risk and high trading frequency nature of CFD trading. The 
size of his shareholdings  also suggest they were  for longer  investment terms than CFDs, so 
it would  appear  that Mr A had questionable previous experience in the sort of short term and 
highly speculative trading nature of CFDs.  
I note TFs point about  the description  of Mr As medium  ATR  and I address the matter  of 
his ATR further below  but, in the context of experience, the description refers to taking 
some short term risk in order to gain longer term growth. This would probably have been a 
reference to the fluctuations in value that can be inherent in long term investments, not to 
experience of short term highly speculative trading like CFD trading.
Mr As ATR
I consider that the assessment of Mr As ATR as medium  was credible  especially based  
on the stock market investments he had engaged in during his one years  experience.  I also 
understand that an automatic assumption  cannot be made  without due regard to the merits 
of each individual case  that CFD trading is unsuitable for an investor  with a medium  risk 
profile. However, with due regard to available evidence in Mr As case, I am not persuaded 
that  as TF appears  to suggest  his medium ATR justified suitability in his CFD account 
and trading. I also consider it irrelevant that he consented to TFs recommendations. He was 
engaged in receiving (and he paid for) an advisory  service so it was reasonable for him to 
accept advice. The issue is about TFs responsibility for the suitability of that advice.
That advice  with regards to the account  and the trading within it  was not made suitable 
by Mr As medium  ATR. His ATR should be viewed in the context of his investment 
background and, as I have addressed above, that was limited in terms of time and the 
investment products he had invested in. My consideration could have differed for an investor  
with longer previous experience and/or broader  previous experience.  It is also noteworthy 
that TFs ATR categories included a higher end of the medium  profile  called Medium High 
Risk. The medium profile required  some understanding  of investment market behaviour 
 whereas  the medium high risk profile  required an understanding of the movement of 
investment markets and readiness to sacrifice short term safety. On their own merits, I am 
not convinced  that the former  description  in contrast  to the latter   was automatically 
suitable for CFD trading.
Mr As financial profile
I have not found  any isolated  wrongdoing by TF in this respect. I do not consider that Mr As 
allocation of around £10,000 towards  the account  was unaffordable for him  given that it 
Ref: DRN02315234was less than a third of his annual disposable  income and less than a third of his jointly  held 
liquid net assets. Nevertheless,  it remains the case that the account and the CFD trading 
within it were unsuitable  on the two grounds  treated above.
Risk notices to Mr A
I accept TFs submissions  in this respect. Multiple  risk warnings appear to have been given 
to Mr A and their wordings  were meaningful. On balance and for this reason, I do not accept 
his claim that risks were  not explained to him. However, as the investigator said,  it remained 
TFs regulatory duty to ensure that the CFD account  and CFD trading was recommended  to 
Mr A only if suitable for him. Multiple  risk warnings did not absolve it of this responsibility. 
The AG IPO issue
On balance, I consider  this issue to be somewhat redundant   given that the overall 
conclusion above  is that Mr As complaint  is upheld  because the CFD account and CFD 
trading was unsuitable for him. I am not persuaded that the AG IPO issue adds or is pivotal 
to the crux of his complaint. However, for the sake of completeness, I have considered the 
issue and I find it finely balanced. Evidence  does suggest that the AG IPO was an incentive  
for Mr A at the outset  TFs records of contacts  reflect this. However,  TF is correct in saying 
other trades were made in the account before the AG related trade was made and I accept  
that this can lend itself to disputing whether (or not) the AG trade was his priority.
fair compensation
I consider that fair compensation will be to put Mr A as close  as I can to the position he 
would probably  now be in if he had not been given unsuitable advice with regards to the 
CFD account and the CFD trading within it. I take the view that he would have sought 
investments in any case but he would have behaved  differently  there  is sufficient evidence  
that he was in the pursuit of making  investments with the £10,000  (plus)  capital. It is not 
possible to say precisely what he would have done  differently but I am satisfied  that what  I 
have set out below is fair given his profile at the time.
TF recently made the point that the investigators  redress proposal conflicts  with previous 
findings from this service. I endorse and order (below) the investigators redress  proposal 
and I explain (further below) why. Earlier I mentioned  my previous determinations of 
complaints about  TFs advisory  CFD accounts.  One such complaint was upheld  and I 
ordered a different form of redress  a full refund  of losses (with interest)  based on 
evidence that the relevant individual would not have invested at all, but for the CFD account.  
As I have said, each case is to be determined on its own merit. Such a finding  does  not 
apply to Mr A  he would  have invested in any case.
Ref: DRN02315235what must  TF do?
To compensate Mr A fairly,  TF must:
Compare the performance of his account with that of the benchmark shown below 
and pay him compensation in the form of the difference between  the fair value  and 
the actual value of the investment. However,  if the actual value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation for financial loss is payable.  Pay him interest  as set out 
below. Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Pay him £250 for the trouble and upset caused to him in this matter.
Provide him with details of the calculation of compensation in a clear and simple  
format.
investment status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Mr As CFD 
accountsurrenderedthe FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total 
Return  Index (prior to 1 
March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA  Stock Market  
Income Total Return 
Index)date of 
investmentdate of 
surrender 8% simple per 
year from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement 
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. Any withdrawal, income  or other payment out of the investments 
should be deducted from the fair value at the point  it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  
any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if TF totals all of those  payments  and 
deducts that figure at the end instead  of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr A had a medium ATR and was prepared to take some  investment risks.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return Index is a mix of diversified 
indices representing  different asset  classes, mainly  UK equities and government 
bonds, and would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared  to take some 
risks to get a higher return. 
I consider that this benchmark broadly reflects the sort of return he could have 
obtained from an investment account  suited to his profile. This does not mean  he 
would have invested in a manner  reflective  of the benchmark,  but it means the 
benchmark provides  a reasonable  measure to determine fair compensation for him.
Ref: DRN02315236The additional interest  is for Mr A being deprived the use of any compensation money 
from the end date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr As complaint. I order Trade Facts Ltd to 
compensate him as detailed above and to provide him with a calculation  of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format.  Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept  or reject  my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0231523