K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained because  TSB Bank plc refused to refund payments out of his account 
which he said he didnt authorise. He wants TSB to refund the money.
 
background
Mr S suffers  from mental health  problems,  and has spent some  time as a hospital inpatient.
Mr Ss complaint concerns a time when he was in hospital from June 2016 onwards. He 
asked a friend to withdraw money from his TSB account for him. Mr S wrote a letter to TSB 
authorising a £250 cash withdrawal to be given to his friend. Mr S says he signed it, and 
added his address,  mobile number, date of birth and National Insurance  number. He gave 
the friend his TSB debit card, but says he didnt tell him the PIN. 
Mr S said this letter doesnt appear  to have been used. But his friend never  returned  the 
card, and some time later Mr S said hed discovered  hed been a victim of fraud. Mr S 
received benefits  into his TSB account,  and around £9,600  had been  taken  out over a period 
of time. Mr S believes  that his friend must  have seen  him enter his PIN when  using his card,  
and stolen the money.
Theres a disagreement  about when Mr S reported this to TSB. Mr S said he did so in 
October 2016. TSB says it has no record of this, though it has a record  of Mr Ss card and 
PIN being cancelled and reordered in June 2016.  TSB says Mr S first disputed transactions  
on his account  in August 2018. He told TSB that the friend to whom  hed given permission  to 
use his debit card had committed fraud for many  months.
But whenever Mr S first complained to TSB, the bank issued its final response letter  in 
September 2018. TSB didnt  uphold  Mr Ss complaint. It said that as Mr S had made an 
allegation against someone  with whom hed had a relationship, this was a domestic issue  
and the bank couldnt investigate. It said it could only investigate  if the person  Mr S had 
accused was prosecuted  by police.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service.
The investigator looked at Mr Ss complaint  that he hadnt authorised  any of the transactions  
on his account  between June and October 2016.  Mr S told the investigator  that when he told 
the police, theyd arrested the friend  but released him as there hadnt been  evidence to 
convict him. The investigator asked about  the card and PIN that were  cancelled and 
reissued in June  2016. Mr S wasnt sure whether hed made the phone call to cancel  these, 
but said no-one else had access to his house.  So he didnt know  how the friend had 
obtained the new card and PIN.
The investigator considered the options.  He thought it was very unlikely that an unknown  
third party had obtained Mr Ss information  and carried out the transactions. He also thought  
it wasnt likely that a known third party had carried out the transactions without Mr Ss 
consent. That was because Mr S had said he had the keys to his house with him in hospital,  
and the new card had gone to that address.  And a fraudster would typically  empty an 
account straightaway, which  hadnt  happened. So the investigator  thought  it was most likely 
that Mr S had authorised the transactions  himself.
Ref: DRN04209792Mr S wasnt  satisfied. He was unhappy  that the investigator hadnt  spoken to the police, 
because he said theyd  agreed Mr S had been  the victim of a crime. He said that the thief 
had been cunning enough to make other transactions on Mr Ss account as well as stealing 
money out. Mr S said that whoever was using the card was trying  to mimic the behaviour of 
a mentally ill person. Mr S also said that TSB had handed over his benefits  to someone not 
authorised to receive them.  And Mr S said that by not contacting the police about  the 
complaint, the investigator was recalcitrant and had an attitudinal problem.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of Mr Ss health  issues.
Scope of this decision 
There are two matters which I need  to address  before going on to the main points of Mr Ss 
complaint.
-In Mr Ss correspondence with us, hes sent us copies of his emails  to other 
organisations, such as the Department for Work and Pensions,  the Police, and 
organisations where he believes  his card was wrongly used by the fraudster. But Mr 
S will need to take up any issues with other  organisations separately. This service 
can only look at Mr Ss complaint against TSB. 
-Mr S wants us to contact the police service to whom  he complained that his friend 
had defrauded  him. I havent  done  so, because I dont consider thats relevant or 
would help Mr Ss complaint. This service  cant make any finding on whether or not 
Mr Ss friend did or didnt commit fraud.  Thats the role of the police,  and Mr S has 
told us that the police didnt proceed  to a prosecution. 
I can only consider whether or not TSB acted  correctly  in line with the relevant banking 
regulations, and whether or not TSB should refund Mr S. 
Relevant regulations
When considering  a complaint about disputed transactions, we must follow the relevant 
regulations. For Mr Ss complaint, these are the Payment Services  Regulations 2009.
The regulations make a distinction between whether transactions  were authenticated, and 
whether they were  authorised. Authenticated is the technical part of a payment, such  as 
whether a genuine card was used, the correct PIN etc. Authorised is about whether the 
account holder  consented  to the transaction.
The transactions which Mr S disputes  are of different  types. Some  were cash  withdrawals, 
and some were transfers. A smaller number were payments at various retail outlets. TSB 
hasnt provided  evidence of authentication for all the payments.  So Ive considered whats  
most likely to have happened. On that basis, I find that its highly likely that the genuine card 
and PIN were used  for the cash withdrawals and retail transactions. I consider its likely that 
the transfer payments were also authenticated. And Mr S doesnt  dispute that the genuine 
card and PIN were  used. So I find that the disputed transactions were authenticated.
Ref: DRN04209793Ive gone on to look at whether the transactions were authorised by Mr S.
Who carried out the transactions?
There are three possibilities. Ive looked at all of them, and have  made my decision on the 
basis of what I consider is most likely  to have happened.
1.An unknown third party might  have obtained Mr Ss card,  PIN, and security  
information. I consider  this is very unlikely. Such a person would have had to obtain 
Mr Ss card,  PIN  which Mr S said he never wrote down   and have access to his 
house in order  to pick up the new card which was sent out in June 2016. 
2.A known  third party might have  obtained Mr Ss card,  and found out his PIN and 
security information. Mr S has told us he gave  his card to the friend, and he thinks 
that person would have seen him enter  the PIN while theyd been out, when Mr S 
wasnt in hospital.  Mr S told us that he gave this person  a letter  which contained 
personal information such as his date of birth.
But there are problems with this theory. 
Looking at the transactions on Mr Ss account  for the relevant  months,  they dont 
follow a normal pattern for a fraudster. Normally a fraudster will take out as much 
money as possible  straightaway   before  they could be stopped. But Mr Ss account 
doesnt show this pattern.  And instead, there  are some  transfers  to a savings account 
in Mr Ss name.  I find that its very unlikely  that a fraudster would do this. I recognise 
that Mr S says this shows the fraudsters cunning, trying to copy  what hed have 
done. But I consider that the pattern of transactions  doesnt show a typical fraud.
Also, Mr S gave his card to the friend  in June 2016,  and on 14 June, around a week 
later, a new card was issued to Mr Ss home  address. Mr S told us he had his house  
keys with him in hospital, and he didnt know how the friend  had obtained the 
replacement card. So I cant see how the friend would have obtained the new card 
and PIN, to carry out the disputed transactions between June and October. 
3.This leaves the third option - that Mr S carried  out and authorised the transactions  
himself. The hospitals evidence doesnt  show that Mr S was unable to leave hospital 
at all during his inpatient stays.  And some of the disputed transactions  were carried 
out by internet banking. As the other two options are unlikely, for the reasons Ive set 
out, I consider  that this is most likely to be what happened.
Ref: DRN04209794my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0420979