K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) mis-sold them  a home  insurance  policy, 
as it didnt provide  cover  they later needed.
background
Mrs B bought a home insurance  policy  from UKI over the phone  in 2013.  They  renewed the 
policy several times. In 2015 they asked  UKI about adding  additional  cover  for family legal 
protection, which they hadnt bought initially.
In late 2018 Mr and Mrs B contacted UKI to say theyd had a water leak under their 
cupboard which had damaged the base  cabinet  on one of their kitchen  cupboards. 
UKI agreed  to look at their claim. It sent one of its contractors out to look at the damage, and 
said it would  replace the damaged cabinet. Mr and Mrs B said they hadnt been able to find a 
matching cabinet.  They  were  unhappy with the offer UKI made, because they thought  UKI 
hadnt sold them the best policy available when  they initially bought their insurance. That 
was because there was a policy available  at the time that contained whats called matching 
items cover. Thats a level of insurance  that, if a matching replacement cant  be found when 
part of a set (in this case the kitchen units)  is damaged, the whole set is replaced. Mr and 
Mrs B dont have that level of cover.
UKI said it didnt have the call recording from the original sale,  but would have talked to Mrs 
B about the best policy available, because thats what it usually  does. And it said it had sent 
the relevant terms  and conditions for their policy to Mr and Mrs B. UKI says these outline  the 
cover Mr and Mrs B bought, and explained clearly that matching cover wasnt included.
UKI also says it will get a bespoke cabinet  made  which should match Mr and Mrs Bs 
existing cabinet.  It says if Mr and Mrs B dont  want it to do that, it will pay them a cash 
settlement of £1,000  what it would have  paid to do the work. The excess applicable to the 
claim will be deducted from this.
Mr and Mrs B dont  think thats acceptable. They  maintain that they were  mis-sold a policy 
that isnt suitable for their needs and UKI should  put things right by paying for the materials 
for all their kitchen units.
UKI hasnt  agreed  to this so Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint  to us. Our investigator  
thought UKI had acted fairly.  She said she couldnt listen  to the call for the initial sale of the 
policy but she thought UKI had made it clear that matching cover  wasnt included   and that 
UKI had sent additional copies of the policy to Mr and Mrs B in late 2014, so theyd had a 
chance to check  the policy suited them.
She also thought  UKIs offer to replace the cabinet  or pay a cash settlement  was fair and 
in line with the terms and conditions in the policy.
Mr and Mrs B dont  think this is fair, and say were effectively condoning the mis-sale of 
policies by UKI.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
Ref: DRN05711592my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is missing or 
contradictory, and there  are disagreements  as there are here  I reach  my decision on the 
balance of the evidence I do have, the wider circumstances and what  I think  most likely  
happened.
There are several points to this complaint,  and Ill deal with them separately.
Firstly, I must say that it isnt the role of this service to regulate how UKI sells its insurance 
policies. That responsibility  rests  with the Financial Conduct Authority. I can only consider 
the particular circumstances  for this complaint.
the sale of the policy
Mrs B bought this policy over the phone. There isnt a recording of this call available  but 
thats not surprising as it took place in 2013  about  seven  years ago. I wouldnt expect UKI 
to keep recordings indefinitely.
However, without a recording I cant be sure what was said during this call  and theres  
some disagreement  about  this, as Mr and Mrs B dont think the best available policy  was 
discussed. UKI says its normal  practise is to offer the best policy  even if thats not what 
eventually gets bought.  I think, on balance, it likely UKI would follow  its normal  procedures 
when selling  this policy, as I havent  seen  anything that suggests  Mrs B was treated 
differently to other  customers  at this point.
Mr and Mrs B say matching items cover should be a separate  part of the policy  in the 
same way that, say, family legal protection is. I cant say thats something UKI should  do. 
Insurance policies,  in general, list a series  of events for which cover is provided  theft,  for 
example, or in this case a water  leak. The limitations of that cover are also described   and 
these include,  amongst  others, whether sets will or wont be replaced  if partly damaged. 
the policy documents
To support what it said about the sales call, UKI says it would have  sent the relevant 
paperwork to Mr and Mrs B, and that it would  have asked them to read the terms and 
conditions. It thinks the policy  made  it clear  that there was no matching items cover.  I can 
see from UKIs internal  records  that it sent a copy of the terms and conditions to Mr and Mrs 
B in late 2014,  after Mr and Mrs B asked for them  to be sent.  I see no reason to think  that 
didnt happen.  Mr and Mrs B say they havent  seen  any terms and conditions. But Id think, if 
theyd asked for them in late 2014,  then theyd have said they didnt  get them when they 
contacted UKI in early 2015. Theres no record that they did this.
Ive looked at the documents to see if they make  the condition about  matching  items clear.  
I think they do. Theres a section  at the beginning of the policy  titled  Hints and Tips and one 
of the suggestions is about what to do if a set or suite is damaged. Under the relevant 
section it says sets wont  be replaced in their entirety if one part is damaged.
I think this would have  been clear to Mr and Mrs B when they read the policy.
the claim
Ref: DRN05711593The key issue here is whether  UKI has fairly met Mr and Mrs Bs claim. The policy describes 
how UKI will meet a claim. In summary, UKI is entitled to repair  or replace a damaged item  
or offer the cash equivalent of what it would have paid for the work if thats what  the 
customer wants.
UKI has done this. Its offered to have a bespoke cabinet made  to ensure the best possible 
match for Mr and Mrs B. Its also offered to give Mr and Mrs B the cash equivalent (£1,000) if 
that suits them better.  Both of those offers are subject to the deduction of any excess that 
applies to the claim.
Thats what  Id expect  it to do. If UKI replaced the cabinet and it wasnt a reasonable match,  
then Mr and Mrs B might be able to complain  about  that. But unless that happens, they cant  
insist UKI does more  than its currently offered  to do. If Mr and Mrs B take the cash  
settlement, then UKI wont have any further involvement in the claim  whether  or not Mr and 
Mrs B manage to match the cabinet or not. 
I think its for Mr and Mrs B to choose  which option  they accept. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0571159