K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has not credited a payment of £180  to his 
account.
background
Mr L paid in a cash deposit to his account  through a third party  intermediary. It did not reach 
his account. Barclays  paid him £180  as a gesture  of goodwill and a further £25. It asked  
him for details of the credit and it has not told him what happened to the money or paid this 
into his account.
Our investigator did not recommend that Barclays do anything more. She said that there was 
a breakdown in communication as Mr L thought  that the goodwill payment was in addition  to 
the money he paid in. So he continued to contact Barclays about that missing money. 
Barclays has not been able to locate  this. She thought that Barclays has acted fairly  by 
crediting Mr L with the equivalent amount to the missing  money. He hasnt  suffered  a 
financial loss.
Mr L did not agree. He cannot accept that Barclays is unable  to trace  the payment. He was 
not made aware that the goodwill gesture  was going  to represent this payment. There  has 
been some  error or fraud involved  here.  And he cannot see why hes been  asked  for more 
details about the payment he made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ls concern that Barclays simply cant  tell him what  happened to the deposit  
he paid in. And I know hes been in contact with the third party intermediary too. He paid the 
cash in at 17:14 on 12 March 2019. And when he couldnt see this on his account  he 
contacted Barclays  and explained he needed this money for essential  spending.
Barclays offered to make the credits to his account  and which were available on 15 March 
2019. And I can see from the detailed statement of his account that Barclays  provided  to this 
service that he was able to use this money to make debit card payments that day.
Barclays has been unclear about  what it was offering Mr L. It asked  him for details of the 
payment and continued to correspond with him about this. In an email of 29 March 2019 
from the complaints  team  to Mr L it said that  if the deposit  is located and it naturally 
proceeds to credit your account as per the original instruction, then it will remain  there 
and it went on to say there is no basis to be sure that the funds will be returned to you
There was clearly no guarantee  of this but it led Mr L to think  that there was £180  at stake 
for him and so he has continued to contact  Barclays about this.
Ive seen that Barclays has taken steps  to trace the deposit and has been unable  to do so. 
And Im forming my own view on this complaint. Im not bound by anything Barclays  has said 
and Im looking at whats  fair and reasonable. Mr L has not suffered a financial loss as the 
amount he paid in has been credited to him. This happened when he raised this and he has 
not been deprived of that amount of money.  Barclays also paid him compensation for his 
Ref: DRN08696292inconvenience of £25. I dont think it was unreasonable to expect him to try and help 
Barclays trace the funds  in any event. But the money has not been traced. And I dont have 
a reasonable basis  to find that Barclays should  now pay Mr L a further  £180  even taking  
account that he expected  this to be paid to him. He is in my view in the position he should  
have been in after paying this money  into his account and has been compensated for 
inconvenience.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that I am not going  to be 
requiring Barclays Bank UK PLC to take any further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0869629