K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading  as 118118  Money (MCF) lent to him in 
an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr B was given three loans by MCF. The first two loans were  taken  in 2016, with the final 
loan being agreed in 2018. There was a significant  gap between  the repayment of loan 2 
and loan 3 being agreed. So I think it would be right to treat Mr Bs borrowing history  as 
being in two distinct parts. Mr B has told us that he doesnt wish to complain about the final 
loan he took  I understand that loan has formed part of an IVA that Mr B entered into. So 
I wont consider that loan any further.  The loans I am therefore considering as part of this 
complaint are as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  Term 
(Months)
1 07/02/2016 13/05/2016 £ 1,200 24
2 06/08/2016 12/08/2017 £ 1,500 24
Mr Bs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She didnt think  that the 
checks MCF had done before lending to Mr B had been sufficient. And she thought that 
better checks would  have shown that Mr B couldnt  afford to sustainably repay the lending. 
So she asked MCF to pay Mr B some compensation.
MCF didnt accept that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mr B accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Bs complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time MCF  gave  these loans to Mr B required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so MCF  had to think  about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr B. In practice this 
meant that MCF had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr B undue 
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for MCF to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr B. 
Ref: DRN03791782Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether MCF did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr B.
MCF gathered some information from Mr B before it agreed the loans. It asked him for 
details of his income,  and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit  file to assess  
how much  he was repaying to other creditors.
Mr B was entering into a significant commitment with MCF. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of two years. The credit check  that MCF did before  the first loan 
suggested that Mr B might be having  some problems  managing  his money.  Hed opened, 
and closed, a large  number  of accounts  over the past months. And at times hed been late 
making some of his repayments. So I would expect that MCF would want to gather,  and 
independently check, some further  detailed information about Mr Bs financial circumstances 
before it agreed  to lend to him. I dont think that the checks  it did were enough. I think  it 
would have been proportionate for MCF to additionally independently check  the true state  of 
Mr Bs finances before  agreeing the loan. 
But although  I dont  think the checks MCF did before agreeing the first loan were  sufficient,  
that in itself doesnt mean that Mr Bs complaint should succeed.  Id also need  to be 
persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate  checks would have shown MCF  that Mr B 
couldnt sustainably  afford the repayments.  So Ive looked at Mr Bs bank statements, and 
what hes told us about his financial situation, to see what better checks  would have shown 
MCF.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check  that MCF 
should have carried  out. I do think MCF needed evidence to corroborate what Mr B said was 
happening with his finances.  And looking at his bank  statements is one way of achieving  that 
although there are of course many  other  ways that level of detail could be established. But 
I think that by looking  at Mr Bs bank  statements  I can get a good  idea of what  better checks  
might have shown.
Ref: DRN03791783Mr Bs bank  statements  showed that he was heavily overdrawn. And in the month  before he 
took the loan his overdraft  increased. Mr B was spending heavily on what  appear to be 
online gambling transactions.  In the month before he asked MCF for the loan he spent an 
amount equivalent  to half his normal income  on transactions of this nature. And he was 
funding that gambling expenditure by taking multiple  loans from another  short-term lender. 
Had MCF seen that information, as it would have  done if it had completed  what  I consider to 
be proportionate checks, then I think it would  reasonably have declined  Mr Bs application.
There was little gap between loans 1 and 2. So I think the concerns that were present when 
Mr B applied for loan 1 applied equally at the time of his application for loan 2. And by then 
the credit  check that MCF did showed  a further worsening of Mr Bs financial situation.  In the 
six months between the loans Mr B had opened, and closed, a further 13 new accounts. His 
outstanding credit balances had increased and he was now at, or close  to, the limit on his 
revolving credit accounts. So given this worsening  in Mr Bs financial situation I dont think it 
was reasonable  for MCF  to give this loan 2 to him either.
In summary,  I dont think the checks that MCF did before agreeing the loans were  sufficient. 
I think better checks  would have shown that it was unlikely that Mr B would be able to repay  
the borrowing  in a sustainable  manner.  So I dont  think MCF should have given either loan to 
Mr B and needs to pay him some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think MCF should have lent to Mr B in either  February or August 2016. So for each of 
those loans MCF should;
refund  all the interest and charges Mr B paid on the loans
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the loans 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MCF to take off tax from this interest.  MCF must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
As I noted  earlier Mr B has entered  into an IVA. It might be that the terms of that IVA give 
Mr Bs practitioner an interest  in the compensation I have directed MCF to pay. It will be up 
to Mr B to make his IVA practitioner aware  of this compensation if appropriate.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct  Madison CF UK Limited  to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0379178