K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs M payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
I think Santander made Mr and Mrs M aware  that the PPI was optional, but that they still 
chose to take it. The PPI was presented  as a choice on the mortgage application form, which  
Mr and Mrs M signed, and the customer ticked to show whether or not they wanted  PPI. 
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, and this means  it had a higher  
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Mr and Mrs Ms particular  circumstances. 
But it looks  to me as though a recommendation would have been a suitable  one, based on 
what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ms situation  at the time. Its likely Mr and Mrs M were eligible 
for the policy. And finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits  at the same time as Mr and Mrs M received 
any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would  have  paid unemployment benefits 
in addition to any redundancy  pay. 
Its not clear how much  savings Mr and Mrs M had at the time; but the PPI would have put 
off the time when  they would need to fall back on any such  savings or other means  they may 
have had for paying the mortgage and other  living costs. This all would have put 
Mr and Mrs M in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income  due to long term 
sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been  told anything to suggest they couldnt afford 
the PPI when they took it out. 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr and Mrs M to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Ref: DRN04766622Its likely  Santander could  have explained  the costs and benefits  of the policy  better than it 
did. But I dont think its likely that full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Mr and Mrs M took the PPI.
Its possible Santander didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs M would  have  been affected by any of these. And theyd be paying  for it 
monthly, so they could  cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
So I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Santander didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back  the 
tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0476662