K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with his mortgage.
background
Mr R took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2000. He paid a monthly  amount for the policy. 
The policy wouldve covered  his mortgage repayments for up to 24 months  at a time if Mr R 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or redundancy.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs case. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill confine my comments  to what  I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. I explain why below.
I think Halifax made Mr R aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and he chose to 
take it. I say that because  I can see that to get the PPI he had to complete a separate 
application form. Mr R signed  the mortgage  application to signal his interest in the PPI and a 
separate application form to get the cover. So I cant think that the PPI was added  without 
his knowledge.  There is nothing in the documentation  Mr R signed that suggests that getting 
the mortgage was dependant on him having to take the PPI. And if he hadnt  wanted the 
cover he had no need to complete the application  as he did. So, it seems  that a discussion 
took place about PPI and a choice was made to take it. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI, so it had to check that the PPI was right for Mr R  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. 
I say this because  he was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
from or limits to the PPI cover. And he seems to have had a need for the cover. Mr R told us 
he had some savings  that he could have  relied  on for a time and that he had some sick pay. 
Mr R has not been  able to provide a record of the savings he told us about. But Ive 
considered that at the time of the sale Mr R chose to protect whatever savings he held by 
not taking a smaller  mortgage. Other evidence Mr R has supplied suggest his sick pay was 
not substantial. Mr R also told us he was eligible for a staff income protection plan, but 
evidence he has provided suggests he was ineligible for it at the point  of sale.  Mr R also told 
us about his pension that he thought  he could  have relied on if he was off work sick. But 
Mr R also told Halifax about the pension income  at the time of the sale and it seems he was 
relying on it already  in applying for his mortgage. 
Ref: DRN05886182The PPI policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay Mr R would have received, it would 
have reduced his reliance  on any savings he had, and would  have covered him for up to 24 
months if he was unable to work because of accident, sickness,  or if he lost his job. So 
thinking about all of this and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan 
secured on your home,  I think Mr R wouldve  found the PPI useful.
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar  policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr R.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr R, Halifax also had to give him clear enough 
information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted  to buy it. Its possible  the 
information Halifax gave  Mr R about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But for the 
same reasons Ive mentioned above  that I think the policy was suitable for him I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped him from buying it. 
I know Mr R feels  strongly  and has put time and effort into his complaint. I realise hell be 
disappointed by the outcome. I know that Mr R will also feel disappointed because  a 
separate complaint was upheld for him. I need to say that each case  is decided on its own 
merits. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Bank of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0588618