K820x#14complaint
Ms B complained about how CIS General Insurance Limited handled her windscreen claim 
under her motor insurance policy.
background 
After her car windscreen was vandalised,  Ms B made a claim under her policy.  CIS referred 
her to their agents, a third party, who Ill refer to as the fitters, to replace her windscreen.  
She said shed wanted  the same windscreen,  but the fitters replaced  it with a different one. 
She wanted CIS to pay for a new windscreen,  the same as the original, to be replaced by 
her preferred  manufacturer approved garage. But CIS wouldnt do so. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be upheld.  She thought that 
CIS had done  what they needed  to do under  the policy.  Ms B didnt  agree  and so Ive been 
asked to decide.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
This includes looking at whether  CIS have applied  the policy  terms reasonably. So, Ive 
looked at Ms Bs policy.  It says on page  15 section  2:
The insurer may use warranted replacement parts or recycled parts  which are not supplied  
by the manufacturer of the car but will be of a similar standard.
It goes on to say at page 17 that if her windscreen  is damaged,  CIS will pay the cost of 
repairing or replacing it, and:
If the repair  or replacement is carried out by one of our approved suppliers, cover is 
unlimited. If you choose  to use your  own supplier, then cover will be limited  to £150 less 
any excess.
Ms B felt that the fitters had fitted  the wrong windscreen, as it wasnt the genuine 
manufacturer windscreen. She said the original windscreen was tinted, but the replacement  
wasnt so she now had difficulty  driving her car in sunlight. The fitters technician confirmed 
that the windscreen they fitted did have a tint but it wasnt  as dark,  and that it was the right 
one for her car, even if it wasnt the same as the original. 
She said no one had told her that she wouldnt be given genuine parts  as standard,  either 
when she took out the policy or when  she phoned  to make her claim. She felt CIS had given 
her a substandard product.  
She also felt that theyd  tried to fob her off by claiming that the tint was different because 
MOT requirements  had changed since her cars manufacture, and that the original  screen 
was no longer available. She found  out that it was available  and could  be fitted by a garage  
for an approximate cost of £380 including VAT for cost and labour, and she wanted CIS to 
pay for that. She thought  that CISs fitters  should have supplied that because  her policy  said 
cover was unlimited.    
Ref: DRN02204852But I think its clear from the policy overall  that CIS dont have to replace the windscreen with 
exactly the same one, only one of a similar standard. And unlimited  here doesnt mean 
regardless of cost,  but simply that the cover is not limited to £150 less Ms Bs glass excess 
of £75. 
So under her policy, even if exactly the same windscreen as her original were available,  CIS 
were not obliged to fit that or pay for it all. If Ms B wanted that, she could arrange it and pay 
for it herself  and theyd  only have to contribute £75 to that (being £150 less her £75 excess).  
I think that CISs policy terms are clear  and theyre not unreasonable.  So CIS may fit 
windscreens that arent manufacturer made  or supplied, and if Ms B wants one that is, CIS 
wont pay the entire cost of that but will only contribute  to it to a maximum amount.  Its for 
CIS to decide on the limitations of the cover  they provide and their choice of non-genuine  
parts it their commercial decision  and not something I can comment  on.
Ms B says that CIS should have told her of her options during the phone call when  she 
reported the claim. She said that, if they had, she would have chosen to have the genuine  
windscreen fitted. Ive listened to the recording  of that call. CISs fitters  representative  didnt 
explain the two options. But they did describe  the particular windscreen and tint and Ms B 
agreed with that. 
But later Ms B said that she wasnt to know if the windscreen the representative described 
was in fact the same  as her cars windscreen,  and shed simply assumed that the 
representative would have known. But I think that it wasnt  unreasonable for the 
representative to assume  that if Ms B had confirmed a particular screen,  that was the one 
she wanted. I think its a case of each assuming that the other knew  what they meant. But 
while thats unfortunate, I dont think that it would  be fair to say that it was CISs fault. 
And even  if CIS had made Ms Bs options  clear then, and explained that under her policy  
she was not entitled to a genuine  manufacturer windscreen but could, if she wanted that,  
arrange her cars windscreen repair herself,  and pay for it herself, apart  from their 
contribution of £75, Im not persuaded that she would  have  chosen  to do that. Thats 
because it would have  cost her over £300.  The incident happened  at home while  she was 
away on caring responsibilities. This appeared to be a stressful  situation,  and it seemed  that 
she wanted her windscreen  repaired quickly, and CIS did achieve  that, while arranging its 
repair herself would have taken time. I think that on the balance of probabilities, and given 
the time and the costs involved, that Ms B would still have opted for CISs fitters to do it. 
I think it was clear in the policy what the policy limitations were.  So I think  CIS decision 
about the replacement was made in line with their policy terms and condition. And Ms B 
hasnt shown us any evidence that there was anything wrong with the windscreen that CIS 
fitted, its just that it was different from the one she had before.
I do appreciate that the whole situation  must  have been distressing for Ms B. Her car was 
vandalised, and it happened while she was away, and at a difficult time for her. But I have to 
look at whether CIS did anything wrong, and I dont think that they did. I think that they have 
done what they were  required to do under the policy, and so I dont ask them  to do anything 
else. 
my final decision 
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN02204853Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0220485