K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs representative, a claims management company (CMC),  complains  on their 
behalf that they were mis-sold a whole of life policy  by Sun Life Assurance  Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited.
background
In 1998, Mr and Mrs C took out a joint whole of life and critical illness  policy after taking 
advice from an appointed representative  of a company which has been subsequently  taken 
over by Sun Life. The policy  provided  life and critical illness  cover  of £30,000 for a premium  
of £50 per month.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative complained about the advice  given to take out the policy.  In 
summary, he said that they shouldve been  advised  to take out a term assurance policy 
which would have cost less and had guaranteed  cover. And Mr and Mrs Cs financial 
position at the time suggested  that they would  have benefitted from lower  premiums.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. In summary, he thought  the policy  was broadly 
suitable for their requirements at the time.  And he thought the policy  was affordable  and 
didnt think there was a desire on Mr and Mrs Cs part for the cover to finish  after a set 
period. He also thought the documentation  Mr and Mrs C received at the time explained how 
the policy worked.
The representative didnt  agree with the investigator. In summary he said:
The documentation contained too much  technical  jargon  for the average  person to 
follow because  the policy  isnt straightforward. If they didn't understand the plan,  then it 
should have been  explained  to them, which it wasn't.
It was the advisors role to ensure Mr and Mrs C understood what  they were  buying, 
including the risks. The advisors role was to explain the product, not to simply hand  
over paperwork  to Mr and Mrs C.
He disagreed that the policy was suitable. At the very least  Mr and Mrs C should have 
been made  aware of the alternatives. This was the whole  point of having a suitability 
letter from January  1995.  Too many of these products  were sold which  of course earned 
the advisor the highest amount of commission, at the expense of the client.
As theres  been  no agreement, the case has been  passed to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive found this to be a finely balanced complaint. But Im not going  to uphold 
this complaint and I will now explain why.
The application completed at the time of the sale recorded that Mr C was employed  and was 
earning £10,000 per year and Mrs C was a housewife who was expecting  their first child.  
Ref: DRN06056812They owned  their own house and had an interest only mortgage  which  was protected  by an 
endowment policy.
From the personal summary report prepared by the advisor, Mr and Mrs Cs main priority 
was to provide  for the surviving spouse  and expected child in the event of either of them 
passing away or contracting a critical illness. 
Given their circumstances  and the recorded  need for life cover, I cant say this whole of life 
policy was unsuitable  for them. And I say that having considered the points raised  by Mr and 
Mrs Cs representative.
Mrs C was expecting a child,  so potentially the policy  could have only been needed until the 
child reached an age where they werent  dependent on Mr and Mrs C. But while the details 
in the fact find stated  Mr and Mrs C wanted  life protection, it doesnt state that they wanted 
this protection  for a specific term. 
Mr and Mrs C were seeking some form of general  family protection.  A whole of life policy, 
with flexibility over term and the level of cover,  seems to be a reasonable way in which  to 
meet this need.  If there  was any change in their circumstances such  as the birth of another 
child, then the policy could run for as long as required. However, the reviewable  nature of 
the policy meant there was the possibility  the premiums would need to be increased to 
maintain the initial  sum assured. 
The premiums were  set as £50.00, which was recorded as an amount Mr and Mrs C could 
comfortably afford. Sun Life have confirmed that if the policy was set up on a maximum 
basis, the premiums would have been  £33.60.  And if it had been set up on a standard  basis, 
then the premiums would  have  been £86.40. So the adviser seems to have tried to ensure 
the policy had a chance of maintaining  its benefits for a reasonable period based on what Mr 
and Mrs C could afford  to pay. So, on balance, Im not persuaded the policy  wasnt suitable 
for their requirements at the time.
Clearly it was important that Mr and Mrs C received enough information  at the time of sale to 
understand the key risks involved with taking  out the policy.  And Im satisfied that there was 
enough information about the risks associated with the policy.  The key features document  
describes the potential  risk factors including the possibility that payments may increase. The 
document goes  on explain how the policy works  and highlights the reviewable nature of the policy.
So, from the documents Ive seen, Im satisfied  that they were provided  with enough 
information about the policy including  its risks and benefits, to make an informed choice. I 
think the documentation was clear, fair and not misleading. The summary of advice letter 
sent to Mr and Mrs C by the advisor also explains why the policy  is suitable  and explains 
how it broadly works. So, Im not persuaded that the advisor didnt explain how the policy 
worked or its risks. 
So, for the reasons Ive explained,  I cant fairly  say that Mr and Mrs C werent  given enough 
information to understand  the main  risks and terms of the policy or that it wasnt  suitable.  
So, Im not going  to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN06056813my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint  and 
I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 January  2020.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0605681