K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained that MBNA Limited  reduced his credit limit without making him aware, 
leaving his account  over limit. Because of this, he lost the promotional rate of interest the 
account held at the time.
background
Mr K completed a balance  transfer  from another provider to his MBNA credit card account  in
early 2018.  This balance  transfer benefited  from a promotional interest rate.
In July 2018, MBNA wrote to Mr K explaining that, after a review, they were  reducing his
credit limit from £8,300  to £7,900. Mr K has said he didn't receive this letter. Mr K continued
to use his credit card as normal, which accrued interest for purchases. The interest charged
on these purchases resulted in Mr K going over his credit limit by £10.35. Because of this,
MBNA withdrew his promotional interest  rate on the balance  transfer  amount which led to a
large increase on his monthly payment amount
Mr K complained that MBNA didn't make him aware  of the credit limit reduction. He didn't
think it was fair that the minimum payment MBNA  took by direct debit didn't prevent him
going over his credit limit So, he wanted  MBNA to re-instate the promotional interest rate.
MBNA didn't uphold  Mr K's complaint  so he referred  his complaint to us.
Our investigator investigated the complaint and didn't uphold it. He thought  MBNA  had made
Mr K aware of the reduction before it took place. So, he thought  Mr K had a responsibility  to
manage his account  and ensure he stayed  within  the new credit limit. Because of this, he
thought MBNA acted  in line with the terms of the agreement by withdrawing the promotional 
rate of interest after the account went over limited. Mr K didnt agree to the complaint was 
passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 February 2020,  where I explained by intention  to uphold 
the complaint.  In that decision I said:
I've considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances ofthis  complaint.  Having done so, its my intention  to
uphold the complaint and I'll explain why.
First, I've considered whether MBNA were able to reduce the credit  limit. The terms of Mr K's
credit agreement says, "We may vary your credit limit at any time and will tell you what  it is."
So, I think MBNA were able to alter Mr K's credit limit whenever  they saw fit.
I've also seen they sent a letter to Mr K on 24 July 2018 detailing  the proposed reduction in
the credit  limit. Although I'm aware Mr K says he didn't receive this letter, I'm satisfied  that it
was sent, and I see no reason why MBNA shouldn't  have assumed it was received.
I've then considered whether MBNA  were  able to withdraw the promotional  rate of interest
I've seen on the statements available  to Mr K, they explain "promotional  offer will no longer
apply from the start of the statement period following any breach of your terms and 
conditions, for example  if you haven't paid on time or have gone  over your credit  limit."  It's
not in dispute that Mr K went over his credit limit, so MBNA acted in line with their terms and
conditions.
Ref: DRN09553852But even though I think MBNA  have followed the process set out in the terms of agreement,  I
also need to be satisfied their actions were  fair and reasonable. And I don't think  they were
in this instance.
I've seen Mr K's statement dated 19 July 2018. This explains the minimum payment, due by
13 August would be £94.27 with the estimated  interest for the next statement being £19.89.
At this point the credit limit was still £8,300  and Mr K had a balance  of £766.32 available  to
spend.
Between 21 and 23 July, Mr K made several purchases totalling £442.20. So, when MBNA
issued their letter to Mr K on 24 July explaining  they were reducing his limit to £7,900, his
outstanding balance would've been £7,975.88. Even  though MBNA were entitled to reduce
Mr K's credit  limit, I don't think  its reasonable for them  to reduce it below the outstanding
balance. Although the minimum  payment  of £94.27  due on 13 August would take the
outstanding balance to £7881.61, this doesn't consider the estimated interest  MBNA  said
would be added in August  or the additional interest  that would've  accrued on the purchases
made in July.
So, I think MBNA should've been aware when  they were reducing the credit limit to that
amount, it was highly  likely Mr K would  exceed  his credit limit unless an additional payment
was made,  on top of the minimum payment due to be taken by direct  debit.
I'm aware MBNA feel this was Mr K's responsibility  to understand and ensure the correct
payment was made. So, as he didn't make an additional payment, they think their decision to
remove the promotional  rate was fair. But I disagree.  At the very least,  I would've  expected
MBNA to make  Mr K aware in the letter dated  24 July that an additional payment would be
required based on the outstanding balance, the interest due to be accrued and the minimum
payment due to be taken.  They didn't do this.
Mr K's statements show he set up a direct  debit to pay the minimum amount, which he
maintained each month. He's explained  he assumed the minimum payment would be
calculated to ensure  that he paid enough to keep him within his limits. And I think  this is a
reasonable assumption to make.
As MBNA took the decision to reduce  the credit limit, which I don't dispute they are entitled
to do, I'd expect them to consider the effects this reduction would  have. Even if Mr K did
receive the letter explaining the limit reduction, I don't think its reasonable for MBNA to 
expect him to work out the level of interest  that may be accrued and that this would take him
over his limit. So, I don't  think  its fair to hold Mr K responsible for exceeding  his credit limit
on this occasion.  Because  of this, I don't think MBNA were reasonable when withdrawing  the
promotional rate of interest.
putting things right
As I think  MBNA's actions were unreasonable, I've then considered the impact this has had
on Mr K and what actions need to be taken to resolve this impact fairly.  As MBNA withdrew
the promotional  rate of interest, Mr K has been  charged a higher interest rate on the account
balance than he should have. So, I think the promotional rate should be re-instated  and the
account restructured  as if the promotional rate had always been in place as agreed when Mr
K completed  the balance transfer.
Ref: DRN09553853Also, as a higher rate of interest was being  charged, Mr K's minimum payments increased. I
can see Mr K maintained these payments. Although I'm aware Mr K has paid more than he's
likely to have done if the minimum payments were calculated on the promotional  rate of
interest, I don't think the difference of these  payments should be refunded.  This is because
by doing so, it would be placing Mr K back into an increased amount of debt.
But I do think it should be recognised that Mr K was impacted financially by having  to make
higher payments than he would've expected when he transferred the balance onto the
account I think this would have been stressful for Mr K and is likely to have caused him
some trouble  and upset.  Mr K would've expected  to benefit from the promotional  rate of
interest for a set period  and the change  is likely  to have impacted his immediate  financial
situation. So, I think MBNA should also make  payment of £250 to compensate  for this.
responses
MBNA accepted the provisional decision and provided no further comments. Mr K 
acknowledged the provisional  decision and provided  no further comments for me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my conclusions.
Neither MBNA or Mr K have provided further  comments that I need to address or further 
information that may change my mind.  So, my decision remains that MBNA  acted  
unreasonably. To recognise this, I think they should  re-instate the promotional rate of 
interest and restructure  the account  while also making a payment of £250 to recognise  the 
upset Mr K has been caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint about MBNA Limited and I direct 
them to take the following actions:
Re-instate the promotional rate of interest and restructure the account as if the 
promotional rate had never been withdrawn.
Make  a payment  of £250 to recognise the trouble and upset Mr K has experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0955385