K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) unfairly cancelled their 
home insurance and recorded this on industry  databases.
background
Mr and Mrs W bought their home  insurance  online. Before that happened Mrs W had a 
conversation with Tesco and explained that during the period of the insurance she and Mr W 
would be having  some work done  on their house.  Mrs W was told to contact Tesco  a month 
before the work was due to start.
Mr and Mrs W did this, and told Tesco they were  using  a JCT contract  (a standard  template 
contract used by many contractors to establish the scope of work and contractual liabilities 
for both the contractor  and the customer.
Tesco asked  for a copy of the contract. Mr and Mrs W were  unwilling to provide this  but 
were happy  to share the information  the contract contained. Tesco  then decided  to cancel 
the insurance, giving  Mr and Mrs W seven days notice of this. It gave  Mr and Mrs W a refund 
of the unused part of their premium and recorded  the cancellation on industry databases.
Mr and Mrs W complained, but Tesco maintained  its stance. Mr and Mrs W brought  their 
complaint to this service.  Our investigator  thought Tesco had acted  unfairly, and 
recommended the complaint should  be upheld. He suggested Tesco  remove the 
cancellation record from industry databases and provide a letter saying the cancellation was 
done in error. He also thought Tesco should pay £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused.
Mr and Mrs W agreed with this in part, but thought the seven days notice theyd been given 
was too short, and that they should  receive more compensation for all the trouble theyd 
been put to. Tesco re-iterated its entitlement to cancel a policy when  a customer  doesnt  co-
operate with requests for information  and doesnt  think its done anything  wrong.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going  to uphold  this complaint, and Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs Ws policy contains the following clause:  Failing to cooperate and/or  provide the 
necessary  information  required to enable us, or the administrator , to administer  your policy,  claim  or 
investigate  fraud.
Tesco has relied  upon this clause as a valid reason to cancel Mr and Mrs Ws policy.  Im not 
persuaded by Tescos  argument that it can reasonably do this. I say this because:
Mrs W went to the trouble of calling  Tesco  before she and Mr W bought their policy online. 
She explained they were going to have work  done  on their house,  and was told to call about 
a month  before work  began so Tesco could check what the work  was. Mr and Mrs W 
complied with this request. They were willing to give Tesco all the information  requested:  but 
they didnt want  to give Tesco a copy of the contract between  them  and their builder.
Ref: DRN05195412Tesco says its essential  that it gets a copy of the contract in these circumstances. And I 
accept its internal guidelines say thats the preferred (and probably  easiest)  route to take to 
get the relevant information. The guidelines  dont say a copy of the JCT contract is 
mandatory. And Tesco also says that  if the same work was being done  without a JCT 
contract  then it would  accept the information  direct from the customer.
Thats contradictory. It seems to me the underlying need is for Tesco to receive the relevant 
information for it to decide if it can (or wants to) insure Mr and Mrs W whilst the works are 
being done. Tesco also wants to be sure its not inadvertently accepting responsibility for 
liabilities that should be the contractors responsibility. 
Mr and Mrs W were prepared to provide all of the relevant information   it simply wasnt  in 
the format Tesco wanted. I dont think thats a good  enough reason  to cancel the insurance. 
So I think Tesco made mistakes and should put things right.
Our investigator recommended Tesco remove the records  of the cancellation from industry 
databases and give Mr and Mrs W a letter explaining the cancellation was a mistake. I think 
thats right thing to do.
Our investigator also said refunding premiums from the date of cancellation onwards was 
fair, as up to that point Mr and Mrs W were  insured. And he suggested Tesco pay £150  to 
compensate Mr and Mrs W for the inconvenience  they suffered. Mr and Mrs W dont think  
thats enough as they say its caused  a great  deal of inconvenience. Nor do they think  seven 
days is enough time for them  to re-arrange cover.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs W say about inconvenience. And I accept they had to 
move fairly quickly to re-arrange cover. But I think they did have enough time to do this, even 
if theyd spent a lot of time researching the market previously before  buying their insurance 
from Tesco. I cant see that they ended up without insurance for any period of time. I also 
think £150 is a fair amount to compensate them for the upset and inconvenience Tescos 
actions caused.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Tesco  Underwriting  Limited  to:
Remove any record of the cancellation  from industry records  and confirm in writing  to 
Mr and Mrs W that theyve done  this.
Provide a letter (on appropriately headed  paper) explaining that the cancellation was 
Tescos mistake.
Pay £150 compensation for the upset and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0519541