K821x#15Complaint
Miss G says PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 5 loans Mr Lender  provided to Miss G in 2014.  Miss Gs borrowing  
history with Mr Lender is detailed below:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment Deferrals
1 05/03/2014 27/06/2014 1 £200.00 £270.00 3
2 30/06/2014 25/07/2014 1 £300.00 £405.00
3 05/08/2014 29/08/2014 1 £150.00 £195.00
4 07/09/2014 31/10/2014 1 £202.00 £262.60 1
5 10/11/2014 30/01/2015 3 £80.00 £50.66*
*largest monthly repayment amount.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and thought  that Miss G shouldnt have been given 
loans 2 to 5. Mr Lender disagreed and said the adjudicator hadnt properly explained her
reasoning. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case was passed me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss G
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of
income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult
to meet  a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of
Ref: DRN02908222time during which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish
whether Miss G could  sustainably repay  her loan  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss G complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Lender needed to do any more  when  it lent Miss G loan 1. 
Miss G didnt  disagree with this so I wont be making further findings on this loan, but I have 
considered it when looking at Miss Gs borrowing  history and her financial situation  overall.
Mr Lender says it carried out adequate checks on Miss G when she applied for loan 2.
This included getting details  of her income and expenditure. I can see from evidence 
submitted by Mr Lender that it did carry out checks on Miss G. However, I think  if Mr Lender 
had properly considered Miss Gs financial  situation  and the lending  I think  it would have 
seen that Miss G was not in a position  to take on this borrowing.
I say this because  Miss G was borrowing £300,  which was due to be repaid in one payment.
This meant that Miss G would be repaying £405  from her monthly  income of £990.  Given her 
monthly expenditure was £395,  Miss G had £595  left over a month and the repayment took 
away a considerable amount of this, leaving her with very little for the remainder of the 
month. As the repayment represented a significant  proportion of Miss Gs income, I think Mr 
Lender ought to have  realised this and the potential for Miss G to struggle to make the 
repayment.
Given Miss Gs income and borrowing, it seems there was a significant chance of Miss G
having to borrow  again to meet her commitment under this loan. Mr Lender was under a
duty to ensure the lending  could  be sustainably repaid and in Miss Gs case I dont think it
was. And I think this wouldve been  clear to Mr Lender at the outset when it gathered
information from Miss G.
Mr Lender says it doesnt understand why loan 1 has been deemed as affordable when it 
had a higher repayment amount compared to loans  3-5. As explained above, early on in a 
lending relationship we may not expect  a lender to carry out detailed checks. Looking at 
Miss Gs circumstances, this was her first loan with Mr Lender  and the monthly repayment, 
although high,  left her with a reasonable amount left over from her income. 
Ref: DRN02908223By loan 3 Miss Gs situation had changed  she had borrowed a larger amount for loan 2 
and this repayment was a significant  amount compared to her income.  So its likely she was 
taking out loan 3 to help cover the hole loan 2 left in her finances.  Miss G also appears to 
have had issues repaying loan 1 on time. So by loan 3, although  the monthly payments were 
lower than loan 1 and 2 Mr Lender  had enough  information about Miss Gs financial situation 
to see that she was not able to sustainably repay any further borrowing. And this is 
supported by the fact Miss G also had issues repaying loan 4. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 2 to 5 and Mr Lender should put things right.
putting things right  what PDL Finance Limited needs to do
Mr Lender shouldnt have  given Miss G loans four and five.
A.)Mr Lender  should  add together the total of the repayments made by Miss G 
towards interest, fees and charges on these loans, including  payments made to a 
third party  where  applicable,  but not including anything Mr Lender  has already 
refunded.
B.)Mr Lender  should  calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by 
Miss G which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss G 
originally made  the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.)Mr Lender  should  pay Miss G the total of A plus B.
D.)Mr Lender  should  remove any adverse information  you have recorded on Miss Gs 
credit file in relation  to loans four and five. If Mr Lender has sold any of the loans 
you should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  Mr Lender should  give
Miss G a certificate showing  how much tax its deducted,  if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given  above, Im upholding Miss Gs complaint. PDL Finance Limited should  
pay put things  right for Miss G as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Miss G to accept  or reject my decision
before 20 March 2020. 
Ref: DRN02908224Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0290822