K820x#14complaint
Mr L says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ls credit  card account immediately after he got his credit card, and was sold during a 
phone call.  
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint because:
 I think MBNA made Mr L aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to take it, 
although I understand why he can no longer remember this. From  what we know  of 
how MBNA sold these policies on the phone, it would have made  it clear  Mr L had a 
choice about whether  to buy the PPI or not.
 MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. 
 Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Mr L chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover.  He was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy  was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mr L would have  made a different decision if better  information had been provided. On 
balance I think he would  still have  taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ls comments,  including what  hes said about  his sick pay in 
2000. Mr L says he was entitled to six months worth  of sick pay. But he also told us (via his 
representative) that he would  receive  no sick pay. He also couldnt remember  who he 
worked for at the time until we shared the information from the original application form. I do 
understand why its hard to recall such things  so many years later. Thats  why  given the 
discrepancy in the information  we asked Mr L if he had any evidence  to confirm how much 
sick pay he would have  got. Unfortunately he cant do that, so this point doesnt change  my 
conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Ref: DRN06908742Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0690874