K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
would not allow her to withdraw tax free cash from her pension  without receiving advice from 
a UK regulated independent financial adviser  (IFA). She wants  it to reimburse her for the 
fees she incurred  in transferring her pension to another arrangement.
background
Mrs O took out a pension  plan with Royal London  in January 2018. And in February 2018 
she asked to take a lump  sum from her plan. But Royal London  said that, as Mrs O lived 
abroad, it couldnt action this request unless Mrs O had advice from an UK IFA.
Mrs O and her husband, Mr O, complained  to Royal London. They said that Mrs Os 
previous adviser  was no longer able to provide advice to expatriates  unless they were  
physically in the UK. So Mrs O wasnt able to take advice from a UK IFA. And they said that 
Mr O had relevant specialist financial expertise so Mrs O didnt  need  to take further advice.  
But Royal London  re-iterated that its policy was to require Mrs O to take advice  from a UK 
IFA before proceeding.
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree with Royal Londons response and wrote to Royal  London again. 
In particular, Mr O said that there  was no legal or regulatory requirement on Royal  London to 
require Mrs O to take financial advice, and he asked for a copy  of the plan documentation. 
He also said that the key features document didnt  mention the charge  of around £190 to 
access benefits.
Mr and Mrs O didnt receive  a response  from Royal London to their further correspondence. 
In May 2018  Mrs O transferred her pension  to an overseas pension  scheme.  And in July 
2018 she made a formal  complaint to Royal London. She said in particular:
As she had previously explained, the UK IFA she had used  was no longer able to 
provide advice unless she was physically  in the UK. 
Royal London had failed to respond  to further correspondence she and her husband 
had sent;
In the absence of a response,  she had had no option but to transfer her pension to 
an overseas pensions scheme.  She had incurred additional unnecessary costs of 
around £2,600  by doing so, and required  reimbursement of this amount. 
Royal London responded to Mrs Os complaint and said:
The information previously provided to Mrs O was correct.  Due to the potential  
complexity, including tax implications and residency  issues,  Royal  London had taken 
a business decision  that it was unable  to provide non-advised drawdown to non-UK 
residents.
Mrs O would have incurred financial adviser fees whether she accessed  a drawdown 
product or transferred  away and Royal  London would not be able to reimburse her;
Although the plan terms and conditions didnt explain  that it required non UK 
residents to take UK regulated advice, these  documents were  generic and not 
tailored to individuals;
The plan booklet detailed the income  release charge that should  have been 
explained to her by her financial adviser when the plan was taken out.
Ref: DRN08644432It agreed that it hadnt provided an adequate level of service when dealing  with 
Mrs Os initial complaint.  And it offered her a payment of £200 by way of apology.  
Our adjudicator felt that Royal London had dealt fairly with Mrs Os complaint. He said,  in 
summary, that whether or not a business  requires a consumer to have received advice in 
these circumstances  is a matter for the business discretion. 
Mrs O does not agree with the adjudicators view, and has asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs O has raised  a number of issues in support of her argument that she should have been 
allowed to take her tax free cash without obtaining  advice from a UK IFA. Ive carefully 
considered everything  she has to say, but have  concentrated my decision on those  issues 
which I find to be central  to her complaint. 
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I agree with our adjudicator that 
Royal London has dealt  with Mrs Os complaint  fairly. I appreciate that this will come  as a 
disappointment to Mrs O, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision. 
Royal London has explained that, although it has a drawdown product available  direct to its 
customers on a non-advised basis, that product is not available  to a non-UK  resident.  If a 
non-UK resident wishes to take drawdown they are required to take financial advice. 
I appreciate that Mrs O feels that Royal Londons  policy on this issue is unfair and 
inconsistent. And she is correct to say that there  is no legal or regulatory requirement for it to 
operate this policy.  But equally, Im not persuaded that there is any legal or regulatory 
reason that prevents it from putting this policy in place. 
Royal London has explained that the reason for its policy is due to the different tax and 
residency implications for non-UK residents. It says that it wants  to ensure that all 
appropriate advice  has been given to a customer who resides out side the UK. And, 
although I appreciate Mr Os comments about the level of knowledge of UK advisers  in 
respect of the tax rules of other countries, I dont find Royal Londons  explanation to be 
unreasonable. Ultimately,  this is a matter for Royal Londons commercial  discretion.
I note that Royal London  failed to respond  to correspondence from Mrs and Mr O after their 
initial complaint.  Royal  London has agreed  that this was unacceptable customer  service and 
has apologised.  It also offered  to pay Mrs O £200 compensation. I find this to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. So I dont require it to do anything  further.
Ref: DRN08644433my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0864443