K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about how Acromas  Insurance Company Limited  has handled repeated  
claims for a blocked sink, which  he made  on his home  emergency  policy.
background
Mr W had a home emergency policy underwritten by Acromas.  He has complained to our 
service about claims he made  for problems with his bathroom sink, and for problems with his 
electricity supply. This complaint deals with the problems with Mr Ws sink, that he first told 
Acromas about in June  2017. I will complete a separate decision about the problems with 
Mr Ws electricity supply.
Mr W rang Acromas  in June 2017 because  the sink in his main bathroom  was blocked. An 
engineer visited,  and said hed fixed the problem, but Mr W said that he was only there for 
thirty seconds before he said it was all fixed. Mr W said that the engineer only blew air down 
the drain. He didnt  undertake any diagnosis  as to what  the underlying problem was. 
Acromas said its engineer left the water running freely. So it thought the problem  was fixed.
Mr W said he didnt  think the problem was fixed.  Mr W also said that he was worried 
because his sink didnt have a waste unit fitted in the plughole, and he thought that the 
problems might recur because of that. He wanted  Acromas to fit a new waste  to the sink. 
Acromas returned to do this work, but Mr W complained that Acromas  didnt properly  
diagnose the new part that was needed.  Theres no agreement between him and Acromas  
as to whether  this was fitted.  
Mr W called  Acromas again in early July, and said his sink was blocked  again. Acromas said 
its engineer attended, and cleared the blockage.  It said that whilst the blockage may not 
have been properly cleared after its first visit at the end of June, it was cleared after this visit 
at the start of July.
Mr W said that the problem recurred in October and November 2017. Acromas said that he 
contacted it about this on 9 November 2017.  
Mr W told us that he insisted  someone  senior visit that time, and the engineer  who visited  
found that the waste pipe was blocked with a bottle cap that had apparently  been pushed  
down the sink. That engineer was able to suck this obstruction out of the waste pipe. 
Mr W told us that he thought this bottle  cap had been the problem since June. He said that 
the person who fixed the problem in November, told him that the blockage shouldve  been 
vacuumed in June or July, when Acromas was first told about the problem. Acromas says it 
has nothing to support  what Mr W says about  this.
Mr W has told us that he wants  £2,500 in compensation  for the stress caused  to him by this 
prolonged problem. 
Acromas said that it thought that the sink blockage in June and July, and the blockage 
several months later in November, were two separate incidents. And it didnt agree that it 
had done anything wrong.
Ref: DRN03623572Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that Acromas had no record  of the 
conversation where Mr W was apparently told that the pipe shouldve  been vacuumed 
straight away, and that person has left the business. Also,  our investigators own enquiries  
didnt suggest  that vacuuming rather than blowing was an industry standard. So he thought  
that Acromas actions were reasonable. He said he thought that Acromas had sent someone 
out within a reasonable period each time that Mr W called.  Our investigator didnt think  that 
Acromas had been unreasonable. 
Our investigator did agree that the blockage in Mr Ws sink was likely to have been fixed on 
29 June if a vacuum had been used then. But our investigator said that he didnt think that it 
was unreasonable for Acromas to have tried a fix which usually worked.  Our investigator 
said that he was glad to see that Acromas hadnt charged the policy excess  for its visit in 
November. And he said he didnt think that he could  ask Acromas to uphold this complaint. 
Mr W didnt agree with that. He sent us a picture of the sink, which he said had now blocked  
again. He said that the problem this time was that a generic waste trap had been installed by 
Acromas, but that didnt fit correctly so it had become stuck in place and couldnt be 
removed. 
Mr W has since sent further,  more detailed representations. He repeated his concern that 
the first plumber who attended  in June 2017  shouldve diagnosed the problem,  rather than 
just attempted  a fix. He said the problem  had recurred in November 2017, and again in June 
2018. So he thought it had taken  a year to fix a simple problem.
Mr W said that he didnt think it mattered that his policy didnt cover him for a replacement 
waste grille. He said that Acromas had committed to fitting  this, but it only offered him a 
generic part. Again, he said that Acromas wouldnt do what it was supposed to do, which 
started with diagnosing the problem. 
Mr W said that we had to look at matters as a whole. He said that he thought that what  had 
happened demonstrated chronic professional negligence across  an entire year.  He said he 
still wanted Acromas to pay him £2,500  for this problem, but he now also wanted Acromas  to 
return the premium of £500 that hed paid too.
Acromas also responded to say that there were five months between  the call when Mr Ws 
waste was first unblocked, and the second  claim for the same  sink. It thought that it was 
reasonable to assume that the sink had been draining in the intervening period. It denied 
that its engineer  had accepted that it had caused  the recent problems, in June 2018,  by 
fitting a substandard waste prior to this. And Acromas said that Mr W does have more than 
one bathroom,  so it said that it didnt accept that he was inconvenienced to the extent that he 
had suggested.  
Acromas said that it had repeatedly waived the policy excess, and had gone beyond what  
Mr Ws policy required at times, for instance by replacing worn  out taps. It said it wouldnt 
pay what Mr W was asking for. It didnt think it should have to pay anything. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt  propose  to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Ref: DRN03623573-Mr W had home  emergency cover with Acromas. That covered him for emergency  
repairs to plumbing, and restoring the flow of drains. He had contacted Acromas three 
times, in June 2017, in November 2017, and in June  2018,  to unblock the sink in his 
main bathroom. Although Acromas didnt think that Mr W was covered under his policy  
for some replacement parts, like a new sink waste unit to replace a missing one, or a 
replacement for worn taps,  it did think that he was covered  for work to unblock his sink.
-I understood that Mr W thought that Acromas  had repeatedly failed to do a decent job. 
He thought hed been put to a considerable amount of trouble and inconvenience, that 
couldve been avoided  if Acromas  had tackled this problem properly in the first place, in 
June 2017. 
-Acromas accepted that there  was a link between  its callout to fix the sink at the end of 
June 2017, and the callout early the next month. It said that a blockage which is pushed 
further down the pipe would normally disperse,  but it didnt  this time. However, Acromas 
didnt accept that there was any link between the June and July callouts,  and the callout 
in November. 
-Our investigator thought that they were probably caused by the same  problem  a bottle 
cap which was found to be blocking the waste in November 2017. But I didnt think that it 
was likely that there was a bottle cap in the waste when  Acromas attended in June and 
July 2017. I thought  that because Acromas  notes  from a visit on 10 July state that it 
used an electro mechanical clean. I understood that this involved a cable being  driven 
through the drain.  I thought it was likely that if an obstruction like a bottle cap was lodged 
in the drain at that time, then it wouldve been  identified then. 
-We knew that the blockage in November  2017 was caused  by a bottle cap in the waste. I 
didnt think that bottle cap was present in the waste when Acromas  attended Mr Ws 
home on 10 July 2017. For that reason, I didnt think that the blockage that Mr W told us 
occurred in November  2017  was linked  to the blockage that Acromas repaired earlier in 
that year. 
-Mr W also told us that the most  recent problems, in June 2018, with the blocked sink 
were also caused by Acromas, because he said they were  caused by a defective waste  
that it had fitted. These recent problems occurred after Mr W complained to our service. 
So I thought about  whether they were linked to the earlier  problems that Mr W has 
experienced, and whether I should consider  them as part of this complaint.  
-Mr W said that Acromas had offered,  in summer  2017, to replace the waste unit which  
was missing from his sink. Both sides appear to accept that this wasnt  covered under 
the policy, and I thought that was right. Mr W said that didnt matter, Acromas had 
offered to replace the item, so it would  have to make good  on that offer.  But I said that 
isnt our services usual approach to issues like this. If an insurer  makes a mistake, and 
says something is covered, then we wont usually make that insurer provide that cover,  
just because it made a mistake. And I hadnt  seen anything  to make me think  that we 
should depart from that usual approach in this case. 
-Mr W complained  to Acromas that an engineer who visited  on 29 June 2017  didnt 
replace the waste  unit. He said that the engineer shouldve been  there  to diagnose the 
problem, and then get the right part. Acromas has said that it had agreed to fit a part, if 
Mr W bought it. He wasnt covered for this replacement part under his policy,  but 
Ref: DRN03623574Acromas said it was offering to do this work as part of his existing claim, if he bought the 
part himself.  
-I thought that either parts or labour to replace  a missing sink waste wouldnt be covered  
under Mr Ws home emergency  policy. I didnt  think that Acromas had to do this work.
-Acromas said that its engineer went to Mr Ws home, and he offered to fit a generic part 
that he had with him. Mr W refused that, and a later response  to Mr Ws complaint states 
that the waste wasnt fitted. Mr W has also told us that the part wasnt  fitted. If Mr W 
refused that part, I didnt think that Acromas had to do any more.
-But Mr W says that the problem he had in June  2018 was because the part Acromas 
fitted was faulty. I asked  Acromas  for full details of Mr Ws claim, and visits to his home. 
But I was unable  to identify any point where  Acromas did fit a new waste to Mr Ws sink. 
We also asked Mr W when the new waste unit was fitted, and although he replied to our 
email, he didnt  tell us when this happened. 
-I considered the evidence  we did have on this point carefully, and I didnt think I was able 
to decide that this part was fitted  by Acromas. So I didnt think that if this part later broke, 
that this would be Acromas fault.  That meant  that it didnt  appear  to me that the blocked 
sink that Mr W experienced  in June 2018 was linked to his earlier  claims.  Because  this 
problem hadnt  been raised with Acromas at the time I was writing,  and because I wasnt 
able to decide that it was linked to his earlier claims, I didnt think  that I should consider 
the blocked sink in June  2018 as part of this complaint. 
-I thought that I should consider the claim that Mr W made in June and July 2017, and the 
claim that Mr W made in November 2017, as separate incidents. So I turned to look at 
what happened on each of those occasions,  to the extent that those issues havent 
already been covered above.
-I understood that Mr W wanted the engineer to come back  out to his home after he 
visited on 28 June 2017. I understood from a call that Mr W made to Acromas  on 
28 June that he wanted the engineer  to replace a part, which  was presumably the sink 
waste, discussed above. Mr W didnt suggest  that the sink hadnt  been left draining  
properly.
-Although it seemed  as if Acromas did offer at some point to replace the sink waste,  
Mr Ws policy didnt  cover him for that, and I didnt think  that Acromas had to do that 
work.
-We knew that the problem with the blocked  sink soon  recurred,  and that Acromas visited  
Mr Ws home again to remove a blockage. Acromas said that pushing  a blockage  further  
along the drain would usually cause it to disperse, but that didnt happen on this 
occasion. I didnt  think it was unreasonable for Acromas to have tried to blow the 
blockage further along the pipe as a way to disperse  it, particularly as the sink appeared 
to have been left draining freely after Acromas first visit. Acromas also appeared to have 
offered appointments at Mr Ws home  reasonably promptly after it was told about the 
problems. So I didnt  think that Acromas did anything wrong. 
-Mr W contacted  Acromas on 9 November to say that the sink was blocked again. He 
said that he insisted  that a senior  person attended, and that engineer cleared the 
blockage by vacuuming out a bottle cap, which  was obstructing the waste. I understood 
Ref: DRN03623575that Mr Ws complaint was that this wasnt done  as part of his first claim, in June and July 
2017. For the reasons set out above,  I hadnt  been able to link this claim to Mr Ws 
earlier complaint. I didnt think that this problem recurred in November because of earlier  
failings by Acromas. And I hadnt identified  other  service failings as part of this claim.
-I knew that Mr W would be disappointed, but I didnt think  that his complaint  about the 
claims he made for a blocked sink should  be upheld. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Acromas contacted us to say it agreed  with the provisional decision, and had nothing to add. 
Mr W sent a detailed objection.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr W said that he didnt want Acromas  to fit a new waste  to the sink, it had offered to do so 
because it was concerned to redress  the incompetence of the first technician. But Ive not 
seen anything in Acromas notes, or heard anything on the call recordings Ive listened  to, 
that suggests to me that Acromas had accepted that there was incompetence by its first 
technician, or that it had offered to do work  outside  of Mr Ws policy cover to make  up for 
that. 
Mr W strongly disagreed that the claims he made in summer 2017 and in November 2017 
werent related.  He said that he thought I was calling him a liar, and suggesting that 
somehow he had taken out the waste from the sink and shoved  a bottle top inside so that it 
became blocked.  Im not suggesting  that. 
Mr W also said that the waste  was fixed in June 2017, effectively sealing the bottle top 
inside, and it was there,  continuing to cause a problem, until he contacted Acromas again in 
November. I didnt think, in my provisional decision, that I was able to decide that Acromas 
had fitted a waste unit to Mr Ws sink. Acromas internal  notes state that its engineer  left 
without making this repair, because Mr W didnt want a generic part to be used. And 
Acromas has shown  us a letter it sent to Mr W in July 2017 stating that the waste  wasnt  
replaced, and that it wouldnt send out another engineer for the same  fault. 
So I think that the bottle cap found its way into the waste  pipe after the June and July repairs  
by Acromas, but presumably  before  the new waste unit was fitted. Thats why I dont think  
that the claims in summer 2017  and November 2017  were  related.
Mr W also repeated  that he expected a payment of £2,500 for this complaint. He said that 
this amount wouldnt even begin  to scrape  the surface of the time really  spent in managing 
Acromas incompetence  over too long a period. 
I do realise how strongly Mr W feels about  this complaint, and how disappointed  he will be 
that Ive not changed my mind, but I have set out why my view in this case  remains the 
same. I still dont think that this complaint should  be upheld. Mr W has said that he will not 
accept that, and that is of course  his decision to make. Although  I appreciate this is not the 
outcome that Mr W would like to see, for the reasons outlined  above, my conclusion is that I 
should not uphold this complaint.
 
Ref: DRN03623576my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0362357