K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  Admiral Insurance Company Limited have unfairly  declined  their 
home insurance claim.
background
In May 2018  Mr and Mrs S property was burgled,  and a number of items were  taken. They  
made a claim on their home insurance policy which Admiral initially  accepted  and started 
reviewing.
In October  2018, Mr and Mrs S complained about  the lack of progress on their claim. 
Admiral apologised  for various errors  made and paid £175 in compensation. Unhappy  with 
the response, Mr and Mrs S brought the complaint  to our service.
The claim was still ongoing  with Admiral at this time.  Initially it said Mr and Mrs S were 
underinsured, so it would look to settle the claim on a proportionate basis.  Mr and Mrs S 
were unhappy  about  this as they thought their contents insurance was £75,000,  but it was 
actually around  £40,000.
But later, in March  2020, Admiral decided to decline  it in full. It had concerns that the claim 
for two high value  watches has been exaggerated.  So it declined the claim in full on the 
basis of fraud. Admiral says it has paid a further £80 compensation for delays in handling the 
complaint. 
As the complaint was already with this service, our investigator reviewed Admirals latest 
position to decline  the claim in full on the basis of fraud.
Our investigator didnt  think it was fair for Admiral to decline the whole claim on the basis  of 
fraud. She noted  Mr and Mrs S had found it difficult to evidence proof of purchase  for some 
of their items,  but she didnt think Admiral had done enough to rely on its fraud term.
Our investigator recommended Admiral should  reassess the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms. She also said it should  remove any reference to fraud on any databases and 
pay a further £100  compensation for the unnecessary  distress  it had caused, in unfairly 
declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs S accepted this, but Admiral didnt. It said the inconsistencies  in Mr and Mrs S 
description of one of the watches, compared  to a photograph provided, show they were  not 
honest when submitting  the claim. 
As Admiral didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral hasnt provided this service  with a copy of Mr and Mrs S policy document. But 
Admiral says where fraud is detected, claims will not be paid. Fraud  is a serious  accusation. 
Not only does it mean the claim will not be paid under the policy,  but it will remain on Mr and 
Mrs S record, which theyll have to declare in future. So for me to agree Admirals  decision 
is reasonable, Id need to see strong evidence to support the allegation. 
Ref: DRN08966842Admiral accepts Mr and Mrs S had items stolen in the burglary. But its outlined concern  over 
two watches. It says Mr and Mrs S havent been  able to provide any proof of purchase  for 
these two watches  (worth over £5,000 each). So its assumption is that they are replica  
watches and that Mr and Mrs S have  exaggerated their claim by saying the watches are 
genuine, to gain more money from than theyre  entitled to. Its relied on the relevant law in 
this area to say that, as it believes part of the claim is exaggerated, it doesnt need to pay 
any of it.
It seems  to me that Admirals concern is that one watch, Ill refer to as watch A, wasnt  on 
the initial loss list that Mr and Mrs S reported to the police. It finds  this suspicious, given the 
high value of the watch. 
Mr and Mrs S say when the burglary  was discovered, every room  in the house had been 
searched and there was a lot of mess, so they found it difficult  to compile  the initial list to the 
police. Ive reviewed  the police  report from the day of the burglary. This says when the 
burglary was discovered, Mr and Mrs S and their family were  asked  not to enter  the property 
so that forensics  could  be taken. So there  was no list provided to the police  on the day of the 
burglary. But Mr and Mrs S worked  quickly to provide  the list to the police within a couple of 
days. 
I accept watch A wasnt on this initial list. Mr and Mrs S have said they were in a distressed 
state due to the nature of the break in and were  trying  to work quickly to get the information  
over to the police. Taking into account the extensive list of relatively high value items that 
was provided, I dont think its unreasonable for some things to have been missed.  
Its not clear exactly when Mr and Mr S noted watch A was missing. But Ive seen two of 
Admirals initial reports where the watch is mentioned. The first was from a week after the 
burglary. There is a photo of the loss list and watch A is clearly listed.  And Admirals second 
report, from three weeks after the burglary, contains  a witness  statement in which  Mrs S 
mentions watch A specifically as being  taken.  I cant see that Mr and Mrs S were  asked  in 
these meetings why the watch wasnt reported  as missing initially.  But their comments  
above, coupled  with the short delay  in reporting it, dont persuade  me that theyve acted 
fraudulently.
In the second  report  from Admiral its noted  that the claim is reasonably well supported . 
Admiral has said this report  was carried out before it received the details about the watches 
so shouldnt be used  in support of paying  the claim. But the report  also says that some 
inheritance has been  funding the familys lifestyle. So it appears the investigator wasnt  
suspicious about Mr and Mrs S having high value  items. 
Admiral has said Mr and Mrs S should be able to find some  proof  of purchase given watch  A 
was bought just a couple of years  before  the claim. Mr S said he tried to go back through  his 
records but wasnt able to find anything. So I accept there may be an issue  here with Mr and 
Mrs S evidencing their loss. But Im not satisfied this means  theyve set out to fraudulently  
exaggerate their claim. They have provided photographs  of the watch  being worn,  so there 
has been some evidence to support their claim provided. And whilst Admiral  was suspicions 
that the description they gave for watch A didnt exactly match  the photograph they provided, 
I havent placed much significance  on this. Mr and Mrs S said they were trying to describe 
several items to the jeweller  from memory and I consider the difference in description  to be 
relatively minor. 
Ref: DRN08966843The other watch, which Ill refer to as watch R was purchased by Mr S from an old work 
colleague. Mr and Mrs S said the paperwork and box for this was taken from their safe 
during the burglary, along with other items. Ive seen evidence  that their safe was broken 
into and items stolen. And it doesnt  seem unreasonable theyd want  to keep such items  in a 
safe. So I think thats a reasonable explanation of why they havent been able to provide any 
other authentication. 
Admirals also concerned that Mr S hasnt been able to show how he paid for the watch. It 
also asked him for contact  details of the colleague,  which havent been provided.  It says the 
photographs (of which Mr and Mrs S have provided  several from over the years)  dont show  
its a genuine  watch (rather than a replica).  Whilst this may be the case,  I dont think  this is 
enough to say theyve acted fraudulently. Theyve  shown they have the means of making 
such a purchase.  Theyve also shown large withdrawals and deposits have come in and out 
of their account due to them being given the inheritance money. 
When Admiral  had suspicions about the watches,  I cant see that it sent another assessor  to 
their property to ask any further questions.  But having reviewed the witness  statements, and 
any responses Mr and Mrs S gave to Admiral  during the claim,  I dont think there have been 
any inconsistencies in how they came to own the items or how they could  afford them.
There have been  numerous questions asked  of Mr and Mrs S finances, which I understand 
have been upsetting for them. Admiral has doubted the claim for many high value goods 
based on the occupations of Mr and Mrs S. But I think theyve provided enough information 
to Admiral about their financial  circumstances.  Theyve explained their wealth has come  from 
inheritance, and provided copies of wills, bank statements and account balances  to show 
they have access  to substantial funds. Theyve  provided mortgage information and land 
registry data in support  of their position,  so I dont agree theyve been unhelpful here. And 
overall I consider  it reasonable that they would own high value  items  such  as watches.  
Admirals investigation  doesnt persuade me Mr and Mrs S have  acted fraudulently in order 
to gain something they were not entitled  to.
So Admiral  should  reassess the claim on the remaining policy  terms. I note there were 
issues at the start of the claim about underinsurance. These havent been  investigated  given 
the eventual claim outcome. And if Mr and Mrs S have concerns about the sale of their 
policy, they should raise  it with the seller. I havent  looked into this as part of this complaint.
From everything Ive seen, Admiral  hasnt handled  the claim well. From the outset there  
have been errors, such as providing  the loss adjustor with the wrong  policy start date, which 
have made  Mr and Mrs S lack confidence in Admirals ability  to assess  the claim. Whilst 
Admiral is entitled to ask questions  about proof of purchase,  its also at times  not been  clear 
to Mr and Mrs S what has been expected of them during the claim.  Theyve  been asked for 
evidence theyve already submitted, arranged call backs  havent taken place and Admiral  
has caused unnecessary upset at what was already a distressing time for Mr and Mrs S. 
Whilst Admiral  has already recognised much of this, I agree with the investigator that a 
further £100 compensation is fair.
Ref: DRN08966844my final decision
My final decision is that I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to reconsider Mr and 
Mrs S claim without  reference to the fraud exclusion. It should also remove  any reference to 
fraud on any internal  or external databases. 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  should pay Mr and Mrs S a further £100 for 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused.  It should do this within  28 days of us telling 
it Mr and Mrs S has accepted my final decision. If it pays any later it should  add interest  at a 
rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my final decision  to the date it makes payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 February  2021.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0896684