complaint
Mr B complains Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading  as Barclaycard, will not refund some  disputed 
transactions.
background
Mr B says that three  transactions made  from his credit card, along with two attempted ones, were  
not made by him.  They took place  in a bar whilst  he was abroad.   He accepts he was in the bar 
and did make one genuine  transaction  but that was it.  He remained in the bar with friends and 
then returned  to his hotel.
The card was not missing  the next morning  and he did not share his PIN with anyone.
Barclaycard looked  into the transactions.  It said the transaction which  Mr B accepted making  was 
carried out on his debit card  and not his credit card.  It also said that the credit card transactions  
were CHIP and PIN verified  which meant that Mr Bs genuine card had been used.
The non-disputed debit card transaction appears  to have taken place between disputed 
transaction number  two and three.
Barclaycard said it was satisfied that Mr B had authorised the transactions  and was not going to 
make any refunds  so he brought the complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator did not think she could uphold the complaint either  so Mr B asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulations relevant  to this case are the Payment Services  Regulations 2017 (the PSRs
2017). These explain that a payment out of someones account can only be authorised  if the 
payer has consented to it. The payment service provider must also show  the payment was 
authenticated. So its not enough for the bank to simply rely on the fact that the card and PIN was 
used to initiate a payment; that doesnt necessarily mean that the payment transaction was 
authorised by the account holder. The bank needs to show consent too.
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because  account holders will be 
liable for payments  theyve  authorised  and, generally speaking, banks will be liable  for 
unauthorised payments.
Ref: DRN0367727K820x#14As this case involves  a credit facility  (a credit card account), the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)
1974 is also relevant.  Section 83 of the CCA says that a customer isnt liable for any loss 
arising from the use of a credit facility  unless they (or someone acting as their agent) used 
the facility.
So, I need to decide whether on the evidence  presented, these payments were 
authenticated and consented to  and where  the evidence  is unclear, I make that decision 
on the basis of what I think is more likely to have happened.
Authentication is the procedure which allows the bank to verify  the identity its customer  or 
the validity of the use of a specific  payment  instrument, including the use of the 
customers personalised security credentials. This can be done  in a number of ways  (e.g. 
chip and PIN, card number, CVV and expiry date etc.)
In this case, Barclaycard  has been able to provide  evidence that the authentication 
process here, the chip and PIN, were  used to authenticate the payment.
Based on this information, Im satisfied that the payments from Mr Bs account were 
authenticated. As Im satisfied that the payments were authenticated,  I then need to 
determine whether  Mr B consented to the payments being made.
Mr B accepts he was in the bar in question and he accepts using his debit card to make one 
genuine transaction.  But that transaction came later in time to two transactions  on his credit  
card  so that cant be where his PIN was compromised (assuming he used the same  PIN 
for both his credit and debit card).
As I am satisfied that the payments were  made  using his genuine card  in that the CHIP  
was read,  I cant agree  with Mr Bs submission  that his card was cloned by a device  of some 
sorts.  This  service is yet to see a confirmed  case of a CHIP  being copied.
So, as the genuine card and correct PIN were used, Mr B accepts he was in the bar and 
woke up the next morning with the card still in his possession, I dont think  it is unfair or 
unreasonable for Barclaycard to hold him liable for the transactions.   On balance, I think its 
likely that Mr B made these payments himself.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0367727