K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Mrs K say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them  a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 14 December 2018. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
that this policy had not been mis-sold. I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to 
send me  so long as I received it by 28 December 2018. But neither side had anything  
more to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has sent in anything  new to consider. So having looked at everything again, Ive 
come to the same conclusion as before: that I dont  think this PPI policy was mis-sold  in this 
case.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  Mr D and 
Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00358442COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr D and Mrs K say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  them a mortgage  payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr D and Mrs K took out a PPI policy  with a mortgage  in 2001. Mr D and Mrs K paid for the PPI with a 
regular monthly premium,  which didnt  attract  interest. It covered  both of them in case either  of them  
were off work  sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr D and Mrs Ks case. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think that this PPI policy was mis-sold   Ill explain my 
reasoning.
The mortgage  application had a section for PPI. There were two tick boxes to choose from:  one to 
take PPI and one to turn it down. Both boxes were equally prominent.  The box to buy PPI was ticked, 
and Mr D and Mrs K signed the application. They  also signed  and submitted a separate application 
specifically for PPI, as well as a direct debit mandate to pay for it  which showed that it was a 
separate cost, rather than something that was included in the mortgage. And Ive not seen any 
evidence to show that Lloyds misled Mr D and Mrs K, or put them under  any unfair pressure to take 
PPI.
Overall, I think  that Lloyds made Mr D and Mrs K aware they had a choice about  buying the PPI, and 
that they chose to take it at the time  though I can understand  if they no longer remember doing so 
after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr D and Mrs K, so it had to check  it was right for them. And based 
on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, I think  it was. For instance,  neither  Mr D nor 
Mrs K appear  to have  been  affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations.  And while 
they had some cover  through  work  and some limited  savings, the PPI covered them for much longer 
than those wouldve lasted,  and it paid out on top. I also understand  that Mr D and Mrs K had life 
cover, but that covered different things to the PPI. Its worth bearing in mind  that if Mr D and Mrs K fell 
behind on their mortgage payments, they risked losing their home. So I think  the PPI couldve really  
been useful for them in protecting  their home.
Its possible that Lloyds couldve given  Mr D and Mrs K clearer information  about  the policy. The 
question, then,  is whether better information was likely  to have  changed their mind  about  buying it.
Here, Mr D and Mrs K chose  to take out PPI, which  implies  they wanted this type of cover. As I said 
above, they werent  affected  by any of the main things the policy wouldnt cover, and it couldve really 
been useful for them in case something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable for Mr D 
and Mrs K. So I dont think better information was likely  to have put them  off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN00358443my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Mr D and Mrs Ks complaint
Please could  Mr D and Mrs K, and Lloyds Bank PLC, send me any more information  or comments to 
look at by 28 December 2018. After that, Ill issue my final decision.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0035844