K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited  has declined  a buildings insurance  claim she 
made for damage to the roof of her property.
background
I issued a provisional decision in March 2019  explaining that I wasnt  intending  to uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
 
Mrs H made  a claim to Aviva about  damage to her roof which she said was caused 
by extreme weather. She said that the roofing membrane on her flat roof had been  
lifted by the wind causing it to lose tension  and retract in several locations. This led to 
water ingress in her bedroom and living room. 
She instructed a builder to inspect the damage. He said he felt the damage had been 
caused by wind ripping up the roof covering. He said fracture holes  had appeared 
beneath the covering which allowed water to enter Mrs Hs property.
Aviva disagrees. Its own experts reviewed the information and photographs 
available, which includes information  from the manufacturer. Avivas  conclusion is 
that based on all of the information, there was no evidence of damage  that would be 
consistent with storm conditions. Instead  it suggested that the roof hadnt been  well 
maintained and that normal wear  and tear/gradual damage was more  likely the cause 
of the damage.
Mrs H wasnt happy with Avivas decision,  or with the communication  shed had with 
Aviva, so she raised a complaint. Aviva accepted that its communication  had been 
poor and paid Mrs H £200  compensation. But it maintained  that the claim should be 
declined. 
Mrs H remained  unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service where it was 
looked at by one of our investigators. She didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She accepted that it was likely storm conditions had occurred. But based on 
the evidence provided she didnt think the damage  to Mrs Hs roof was most likely  
consistent with damage  caused by a storm. 
Mrs H didnt agree, so because no agreement has been reached, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mrs H that Ive thought very carefully about everything shes  said 
and the information provided. But having done so, Ive decided not to uphold  her 
complaint about  the damage  to her roof. Ill explain why in more  detail.
Ref: DRN01881332The issue  I need to decide is whether Aviva is entitled to decline Mrs Hs claim under 
the policy and what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
Damage caused  by storm is covered  by the policy, so the first issue  to determine is 
whether there was a storm. Avivas policy mentions 55mph in the definition of storm. 
And while the recorded wind speed was 53mph Aviva, during the course of our 
investigation, accepts  that because of the location of Mrs Hs home she is likely  to 
have experienced stronger  winds. And as such, I am satisfied that this would bring 
the weather at the time within the definition of a storm by wind speed  alone. 
Having satisfied myself that, on balance, there  was a storm Ill now address two 
further questions;
1.is the damage claimed  for consistent with what we generally  see as storm 
damage?
2.were storm  conditions  the main cause  of the damage?  
And unless  the answer to all of these questions  is yes, its unlikely  that Ill uphold  this 
complaint.
is the damage claimed for consistent with what we generally see as storm damage?
Storm force winds are capable of lifting flat roofs  and/or the felt cover beneath them. 
This can then allow the ingress of water from other  weather conditions. So I am 
persuaded that the damage  complained  about  is consistent with damage caused  by 
a storm. This then leads  to the question of whether  the storm caused the damage.
were storm  conditions the main cause  of the damage?
The policy says a storm can highlight defects rather than cause them,  and says that 
damage due to lack of maintenance, wear and tear or which happens  gradually  isnt 
covered. As Aviva is raising  this as the reason to decline the claim then its 
reasonable to expect  Aviva to show this applies.
Avivas expert said that the roof had failed along  the front and left edges of the flat 
roof. It said the area of roof beneath the parapet wall showed that there  wasnt  a 
suitable fleece  underlay, which is recommended to separate the membrane from 
bitumen surface  below.  This is to prevent  a chemical  reaction which could cause 
weakness. It said the membrane beneath  the parapet was reliant on concrete 
flashing to prevent water ingress,  but the concrete  flashing had failed. It said there 
was some ponding on the roof which suggests gradual deterioration of the roofing 
materials. 
Mrs Hs builder said that from his inspection the fleece was in place and secured by 
the round  fixings.  He said hed been  up on the roof around a year or so before and 
there was no damage, or soft/sagging areas. He said there  were  still no soft/sagging 
areas. He said he thought  it was possible that some  of the damage  couldve occurred  
earlier than the reported storm, but noted  theyd had a few windy  days around the 
time of damage.
Ref: DRN01881333Mrs Hs builder also passed  on a report from the roofing  manufacturer which  said the 
fleece was in place and the surface underneath  the membrane was asphalt,  rather 
than bitumen  so no chemical reaction wouldve taken place. He said the perimeter 
trims seemed to have bent along the lines of the fixings holding the trims in place. He 
said the main roof looked ok except  for the damage where the membrane metals  
were damaged.
In response, Avivas  expert said he wasnt refuting the manufacturers claim that the 
fleece was present.  But he said from the pictures,  it is true to say the fleece didnt 
exist around the asphalt peripheries  which he said; suggests a bond failure 
between the two materials. He also pointed out that there was a failure of the 
concrete flashing  used  to secure  the membrane along the parapet wall, which  he felt 
created an opening which contributed to the water ingress. Aviva said based  on its 
local knowledge the concrete flashing  failure is a result of defective workmanship and 
cannot be linked to storm conditions. 
Ive thought about this carefully  and taking everything Ive seen into account, Im 
more persuaded  that storm conditions were not the most  likely  cause of damage. 
Mrs Hs builder says he thinks the damage was caused by strong winds. But from 
what Ive seen hes also said that the edges of the roof had become brittle and the 
wind has pulled them  back. This would mean there  was gradual damage  to the 
edges of the roof and the wind had only highlighted these issues,  rather  than being 
the primary cause of the damage. Aviva has also pointed out other  areas of pre-
existing damage,  such as the flashing, which  indicates there was some wear  and 
tear/gradual damage. 
While the winds were  likely to be storm force, they were at the lower  end. And based  
on everything Ive seen I think it is unlikely that such winds would rip up a properly 
installed and well maintained roof like Mrs Hs. So, on balance,  I think its more likely  
that the primary cause  of damage was wear  and tear  which  the storm mightve 
highlighted  but which isnt covered by Mrs Hs policy.
It follows that I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to decline Mrs Hs claim for 
damage to her roof caused  by a storm.
Mrs H also complained that Avivas communication with her during her claim was 
poor. Aviva accepted  that it was and paid Mrs H £200. Ive considered  everything  
Mrs H has told us about the communication issues, as well as our services  published  
guidance on the payment of compensation. Having done so, I think  the amount Aviva  
has offered is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN01881334Its not clear whether  Mrs H has attempted  to claim for the damage to the interior  of 
her property caused by the leak. Ive seen notes  from Aviva  that indicate  it didnt  
think Mrs H wanted the internal  damage  repaired.  And from what  Ive seen, Aviva  
hasnt commented  on internal damage when declining  Mrs Hs claim, or in its final 
response to her complaint. So I havent considered the internal damage when 
reaching this provisional decision. If Mrs H wants to, she can raise a separate  
claim/complaint with Aviva about this.
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision.
Aviva responded to say it didnt have anything  further it wanted to add to my provisional 
findings.
Mrs H responded to say that she didnt agree. She raised several points she wanted me to 
consider. These were:
her roof was fixed to the parapet wall by nails and plastic  plugs, not the concrete 
flashing  which  she presumes was to protect against rain
if water  got in near the parapet wall it wouldve come in through  her kitchen, not the 
lounge and bedroom
the report pictures show that the fleece underlay was present
the ponding Aviva mentions was caused  by the roof losing tension due to damage at 
the sides
the weather  around the time of the storm was below zero for seven consecutive days 
which is why the PVC edges  had become brittle
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also carefully  considered Mrs Hs 
response to my provisional  decision. Ill set out my thoughts  below.
Various expert reports/comments have  been provided, and some of the findings have been 
contradictory. But Ive considered all of the different reports, comments  and photographs,  as 
well as the local weather reports  from the time of the damage.  Ive also carefully  considered 
everything Mrs H has told us about  her roof and the weather at the time.
I appreciate Mrs Hs point that her roof was secured to the parapet  wall with nails, and not 
just concrete. But I think its likely that the purpose  of the concrete flashing  was both to 
prevent water ingress  and to help secure the roof against  the wall. I think the fact that the 
flashing had failed supports Avivas view that there was a maintenance issue and/or some  
general wear and tear issues with the roof prior to the storm. 
Theres also Avivas point  that the roof needed a suitable layer of fleece underlay  to prevent 
contact with the asphalt surface below.
Ref: DRN01881335Mrs H, her builder  and the roofing manufacturer all said the fleece was present. But Avivas  
initial expert report said there was no fleece  underlay beneath the covering  that runs along 
the parapet wall, and that the front area of the roof showed contact between the roofing 
material and the material below. Its second expert also said the photos  show  that the fleece  
isnt present around the asphalt  peripheries. So it seems likely that there was at least some 
contact between the materials in some areas,  even if the fleece  was present. And according 
to the expert opinions,  this could contribute to a bonding failure between  the two materials   
which strong winds could  highlight, without being the primary cause.
Mrs H policy  says that damage due to lack of maintenance, wear  and tear or which happens 
gradually isnt covered.  And having  taken everything into account,  Im not persuaded that the 
wind speeds at the time  although storm force   would be likely to rip up a properly installed 
and well maintained  roof of the type Mrs H had. I think its more likely  that there was some  
gradual damage/wear and tear already present, and that the storm highlighted this.
It follows that I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to decline Mrs Hs claim for damage 
to her roof caused by a storm.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019. 
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0188133