K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Masthaven  Bank  Limited wouldnt offer a secured loan to repay his 
bridging loan.  He asks that it refunds some of the interest hes paid and pays  compensation 
for the upset caused and the effect  on his health.
background
Mr C took out a bridging loan with Masthaven in early 2017. The loan had a 12 months  term. 
At the end of 2017 a company owned by Mr C asked Masthaven  for a secured loan. Part of 
the loan funds were  to be used to repay Mr Cs bridging loan.  Masthaven declined to lend to 
the company.  
Mr C says Masthaven acted unfairly. He said it had recently given  a loan to another of his 
companies, which had been repaid. He cant understand why it declined  this loan. He says 
extending the bridging loan instead of offering a new loan left him worse off as he had to pay 
arrangement fees and a higher interest  rate. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  he said 
Masthaven made a commercial decision not to offer a new loan. It explained its decision. 
The investigator said Masthaven didnt act unreasonably.
Mr C didnt agree. He said Masthaven had treated him very unfairly and contradicted  itself.  
He said he was offering  better security and a better  repayment strategy for the declined loan 
than the bridging  loan.  Mr C said, given the higher interest rate on the bridging loan, it didnt 
make sense for Masthaven to say it didnt want to increase  his indebtedness.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
In January 2017 Mr C took out a bridging  loan with Masthaven. The proceeds were to be 
used for the purchase and refurbishment of a property. The bridging  loan was secured by a 
second charge  on Mr Cs residence.  It was intended that the loan would be repaid by the 
sale of Mr Cs residence.
A company owned by Mr C took out a loan in September 2017, secured on another property. 
This property was sold before the end of 2017.  The sales  proceeds  were used to repay this 
loan and £50,000 of Mr Cs bridging loan.  
In December 2017 Mr Cs broker asked Masthaven to provide a secured loan of about 
£245,000 to another company owned  by Mr C. The purpose of the new loan was to repay 
Mr Cs bridging loan (about £170,000), pay a tax bill and provide cash flow.
Masthaven declined the request for a new loan. It extended the bridging loan. Mr C repaid 
the bridging loan in September  2018.
Ref: DRN00518412did Masthaven make an error?
When Mr C took out the bridging loan, he agreed to its terms. Unfortunately,  circumstances 
meant he wasnt able to repay the bridging  loan when it was due in early 2018.  
I understand why Mr C wanted a new secured loan to replace  the bridging  loan.  The interest 
rate would be lower.  And hed be under less pressure to repay the loan.  But I dont think its 
reasonable to say that Masthaven had to provide a new loan to Mr C or his company.
Masthaven offered a loan to Mr Cs company in September 2017. But this doesnt mean it 
had to lend to another of Mr Cs companies. And there were differences between  the two 
applications. The borrowers were different legal entities. Different security was offered. And, 
when the application was made for the new loan, Masthaven was aware  that Mr C would be 
unable to repay the bridging loan, as intended,  from the sale of his residence.  
Masthaven explained why it didnt offer a new loan to Mr Cs company. This included  the 
increase in the overall amount owed by Mr C and his company, that the bridging loan 
wouldnt be repaid  as planned, its assessment of the security and the use of the loan funds. 
Masthaven is entitled to make a commercial  decision whether to lend. I havent  seen 
anything to suggest it treated Mr C unfairly  when deciding whether to lend to him or his 
company. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Masthaven to refund 
interest or pay compensation.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0051841