K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
BOS has provided a copy of Mr Ms signed  credit card application which has a printed 
cross in the box next to credit card repayments  cover. From what I know  of how BOS 
sold policies around  this time, I think its likely  the printed  cross wouldve only been  
added after Mr M confirmed he wanted  PPI. And this is supported by there being no 
cross in the box to request  card protection. So overall I think  its most likely that BOS 
made it clear  that Mr M didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  
although as Im looking at events from more than fifteen years  ago I can understand why 
he cant remember this.
BOS recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
appears to have had a need  for it.  
Its possible  the information BOS gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been  useful for him if something  went wrong. Mr M 
mightve been  entitled to some sick pay from his employer. But the policy wouldve paid 
out in addition to this and potentially  for longer.  It also looks like it was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information about the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said. But Im afraid that these points  dont change  
my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything  
Mr M paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mr M back  some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
BOS will make arrangements to pay Mr M now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Ref: DRN01656542Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0165654