K821x#15Complaint
Mr M has complained about advice  he received  from Portafina  LLP (formerly Portal  Financial 
Services LLP) to switch  his personal  pension plan (PPP) and Group  Personal  Pension 
(GPP) to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP). The funds  within the SIPP  were  then 
used to invest in several  unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
Background
Mr M was introduced to Portafina in 2014  after hed been in contact with another business,  
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed  representative  
(AR) of a regulated  business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority to provide  investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to provide  
pension transfer  advice. 
Portafina carried out a review  with Mr M. It noted  he was 49 years old, employed and was 
earning approximately £29,000 a year. Mr M was widowed and had two dependent  children. 
He owned his home, valued at £90,000 with an outstanding mortgage and he had £1,000  in 
savings. It noted  Mr M was in good  health and believed he was likely to retire at age 66.
Portafina recorded the following information  about Mr Ms pensions:
The fund value  of his PPP was £15,161; a £993  transfer penalty reduced  the transfer 
value to £14,228. The Annual Management  Charge (AMC) was 0.98%, plus a 
monthly charge  of £6.45.
The PPP was invested  in a Managed fund, which  had produced a return of 11.16% 
per annum over the previous five years
The fund value  of his GPP was £21,760.  It was invested in a Universal Lifestyle fund 
which had produced a return of 10.8% per annum over the previous five years. The 
AMC was 1%.
Mr M also had an Occupational Pension  Scheme (OPS), which was not included as 
part of the advice.
Portafina noted Mr Ms Stated Objectives  were to consolidate his plans and switch  to a 
cheaper scheme; to have  more flexibility and control; to improve  performance and have a 
greater investment fund choice; to improve on his death benefits and to access  Tax Free 
Cash (TFC) and his benefits  before his retirement  date.
The risk assessment Portafina  carried out suggested he was a Moderately Adventurous 
investor. Based on Mr Ms circumstances, Portafina recommended that he switch his PPP 
and GPP to a SIPP saying, this will allow you () to meet your stated needs and 
objectives. Portafina  said it wouldnt be providing  any advice in relation  to where Mr Ms 
funds would be invested after the switch,  as this would be given by Firm C.
Portafinas Suitability  Report noted  that the AMC for the recommended SIPP would be 0.5% 
and Firm C would also charge an ongoing fee of 0.5% for providing the investment advice. It 
was stated that: 
Overall, this strategy will cost more than your existing arrangement. Whilst the intention  is 
that this will be more  than compensated  for by the increased growth of your pension fund 
this cannot be guaranteed.
Ref: DRN05631452The recommended  SIPP was established in December 2014, with funds totalling £36,155.90  
transferred between December 2014  and January 2015. Firm C invested  Mr Ms SIPP fund 
in February 2015  as follows:
Unregulated Collective  Investment Schemes (UCIS)
Brisa Investments  10%
Biomass Investments  10% 
UK Strategic  Residential  10% 
Lakeview UK Holdings   10% 
Real Estate Investments USA plc  10% 
Regulated investments
Cash  5%
Marlborough ETF Global   30%
Spectrum Thesis Orange  10% 
Spectrum Thesis Green  5% 
In June 2017, with the assistance of a CMC, Mr M complained  to Portafina about the advice 
he received to switch.  He said the advice was negligent and unsuitable for someone with no 
investment experience, a medium attitude to risk and low capacity for loss. He also argued  
that Portafina couldnt make its switch recommendation without taking responsibility for 
assessing the underlying  SIPP investments. 
Portafina considered  Mr Ms complaint and concluded that it had provided suitable advice (in 
line with his circumstances, needs  and objectives  at the time) and acted  in his best interests. 
It noted that the charges  had been set out by it and believed that the recommended platform 
was relatively low cost in comparison to others on the market. As it didnt provide any 
investment advice, which was the responsibility of Firm C, it couldnt provide any details  of 
the charges in relation  to the funds that were selected. Portafina added that any grievances  
relating to the underlying  investment advice did not apply to it and so it had forwarded  that 
part of Mr Ms complaint to Firm C.
Unhappy with Portafinas response  to his complaint, Mr M referred  the matter to our service.
An adjudicator considered  the matter and concluded  that Mr Ms complaint should be 
upheld. He didnt  think Portafinas advice was suitable. In summary  he said:
The recorded objectives didnt justify a switch to a SIPP,  given the modest value of 
the pension fund.
He disagreed with Portafinas assessment that Mr M was a moderately adventurous 
investor. Based on his responses to the risk questionnaire, he believed  Mr M was a 
medium risk investor.
The exit fee, along with the additional costs  would have a negative  effect  on the 
transferred funds and the opportunity to achieve improved returns to cover those 
costs was limited.
Although Portafina didnt  advise on the investments, it needed to have considered 
them as part of the overall recommendation, as ultimately the investments couldnt 
have been recommended  without  its involvement.
He did not see any evidence that the adviser  carried  out any due diligence regarding  
Firm C, or the type of investments envisaged.
Although he upheld the complaint, he said that Portafina should  only compensate Mr 
M from the transfer date to the date the funds were invested. Firm C were the AR of 
Ref: DRN05631453Firm S and they were responsible for some  of the compensation. Accordingly, he 
suggested Mr M raise a complaint with the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) against Firm S.
Portafina disagreed  with the adjudicators findings and in summary said:
The advice to switch  had been  suitable  and in line with Mr Ms objectives at the time
It shouldnt be held accountable for the investment advice provided by Firm C. It had 
carried out extensive background checks on the company  directors,  accounts and 
information about any previous complaints it had received and was satisfied the firm 
could be used in the advice process.
A change  of agency form, completed  before the investment selection  was made, 
demonstrated that the investment  advice  was Firm Cs responsibility.
The size of the fund was not relevant to the charges and the SIPP  provider was 
selected for its online functionality, competitive fees and flexibility.
It had conducted  a cost comparison which showed Mr M would be 3% better off if he 
switched his GPP  and 0.02% better  off with his PPP.
The advice was suitable and appropriate to Mr Ms circumstances.  Mr M wanted to 
consolidate his pension plans, move to a cheaper scheme  and diversify  his pension 
portfolio.
The adjudicator responded to Portafinas arguments and noted the following:
Portafina failed  in its duty to assess the underlying  investment  strategy  before 
advising on the switch.
UCIS investments usually require a sophisticated understanding  of investments and 
are suited  to high net worth clients. In any event only a small proportion of around  
5% of an overall portfolio should  be exposed  to such risks.
Portafina failed  to accurately assess Mr Ms attitude to risk (ATR). His circumstances  
and individual  answers to the risk questions in no way suggested  that he had a 
moderately adventurous appetite  for risk. He wouldve expected Portafina to probe 
more around his ATR to establish  that it was in line with the underlying  investment 
strategy in order to recommend a switch.
The reasons  put forward to justify the switch  werent compelling  and the advice to 
switch appeared  to only be for the purpose of facilitating  the unsuitable UCIS 
investments.
As no agreement could be reached  the case was passed to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision.
Following this, further information was requested to check if Mr M had approached  the 
FSCS. Mr M confirmed that, at around the time he complained to Portafina, he also 
submitted a claim to the FSCS about Firm S regarding the UCIS investments made using his 
SIPP funds.  The FSCS rejected  his claim in July 2017, stating  that as it was a fund of last 
resort it couldnt consider his claim while his complaint against Portafina was being 
considered.
An update to the original  compensation recommended by our service  was later issued. This 
explained that apportioning responsibility to Portafina for all of Mr Ms losses represented fair 
compensation. And that as such,  the compensation shouldnt  be limited to just cover  the 
period before the funds  were invested  but should  be run to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN05631454My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Mr Ms complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Portafina advised Mr M to switch  his PPP and GPP to a SIPP  but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation regarding the investments held within the SIPP as Firm C was supposed to 
provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange 
Mr Ms underlying SIPP investments, I dont think that meant  Portafinas  responsibilities  
ended once the SIPP was set up, the funds  transferred, and the money then made available  
for investment. I believe that as Mr Ms financial adviser, Portafina still had a duty to ensure 
the overall transaction was suitable,  notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to 
be involved. 
Suitable advice  couldnt,  in my view, be given without thinking  about the intended  
investment. Portafina  appeared  to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite saying 
Firm C would  provide specific investment advice, it noted that one of the reasons for moving 
to the recommended  SIPP  was that it would  provide  access to Dimensional Funds. Had 
Portafina purely been advising  on the suitability of switching, then the availability of a 
particular fund provider  wouldnt  in my view have featured  as a consideration. As it stands, 
the SIPP wasnt invested with Dimensional,  but this doesnt change the fact that Portafina  
had used the destination of the investment as part of the justification  for its recommendation.
The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened  here, I dont think Portafinas  advice to switch 
was suitable. And I dont  think  it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought to. At 
the time of the advice the regulator had made its view clear that it considered  in order to 
suitably advise on pension transfers  or switches, a firm needed to consider the suitability of 
the underlying  investments to be held in it. 
The regulators position  was evident  in its 2013 alert where it said:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension.
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have  to consider 
the unregulated  investment as part of their advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments  held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other  wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated  schemes. It should  be particularly clear  to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension  transfer in 
implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating () If you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items, you 
cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
Ref: DRN05631455The regulators 2014 alert added:  
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement  to release funds to invest  through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not 
suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction  as a whole.
Portafina appears to have  been under the impression that, as it told Mr M it wasnt  providing  
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled  it to provide advice on a restricted  
basis. But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the 
suitability of the switch had to include the suitability of the underlying investments. I dont 
think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position  on the matter.
Both alerts specifically referred  to the regulators  overarching Principles for Businesses  
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which  Portafina  was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts  said a firm would  fall short  of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt  familiarise  itself with the intended investment strategy  and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mr M under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a limited retainer didnt 
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing  was suitable  again, this 
had to include consideration  of how Mr Ms funds would be invested.
COBS 9.2 required  Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr M. To achieve  this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portafina  had to obtain enough 
information from Mr M to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these  objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.  COBS 9.2.2R 
included the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client  must include, where 
relevant, information  on the length of time for which he wishes  to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile,  and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process  Portafina had to understand Mr Ms objectives  two of 
which were recorded  as to have greater  fund choice and improved performance  and the 
related risks.  It wasnt  free to ignore how Mr Ms funds were  going to be invested irrespective 
of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP  to be inextricably 
linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a switch  
without knowing what Mr M would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind  seem 
reasonably possible.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory  framework that existed  at the time of 
Portafinas advice  and had to be complied  with. Principles 1 (conducting business with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers  
Ref: DRN05631456interests and treating  them  fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice  for a customer  entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what  Ive outlined  
above, Ive considered Portafinas advice with these  in mind. 
As Portafina didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets 
of the SIPP  it recommended, it says it was unaware of where,  further to Firm Cs 
involvement, Mr Ms transferred  funds would ultimately be invested. As Firm C was regulated 
and able to provide investment advice  with a duty to ensure this was suitable, it says it saw 
no issue with this.
I accept that as a result  of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice.  However, I dont agree  that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mr Ms appointed financial  adviser,  it had a significant responsibility to provide  suitable 
advice and act in Mr Ms best interests.  And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness of 
where Mr Ms funds would be invested.  
Portafina noted in its response to the adjudicators  original findings that it carried  out 
extensive due diligence checks  on Firm C and was satisfied it could be used to provide  
investment advice to clients. However,  this failed to address the second part of the 
adjudicators argument,  namely that the intended investments hadnt been investigated. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Portafina, at any point, checked to see how Firm C 
broadly proposed to invest Mr Ms funds. I believe it should have, given the unavoidable 
connection this had to the transfer it was proposing.  
As part of its duty of care to Mr M I consider that Portafina shouldve  at the very least  asked  
Firm C at the outset for details of the model  portfolios  it adopted for various risk categories.  
And in doing so it ought to have  checked  these lined up with what it considered  to suit each 
risk group. Further to this Portafina shouldve also asked for the details of the portfolio 
intended for Mr M and the proposed investments. Portafina couldnt reasonably assess the 
suitability of the transfer it was recommending without  doing so. 
The reality  is that having  followed Portafinas transfer advice, half of Mr Ms SIPP was 
invested in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010  UCIS findings are relevant here. Here it said 
that as well as UCIS only being eligible for promotion to certain customers (generally 
sophisticated, high net worth  investors),  as an example, even when a customer  was deemed 
eligible for the promotion of UCIS,  suitable advice involved limiting a client's  exposure  to 
these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement  provision. In Mr Ms case,  50% of his SIPP  
was invested in UCIS. I dont think UCIS  was suitable for Mr M at all, let alone in the 
proportion invested.  Theres nothing to indicate Mr M had the requisite knowledge or 
experience to accept  or understand the risks associated with these types of investments.
I am aware  that Mr M had an OPS, which didnt  form part of the switch and could be counted  
as part of his overall pension portfolio. This would reduce the share  of his portfolio, as a 
percentage, that was held in UCIS. However, this plan was valued at just £3,686 in 
December 2014  and therefore  had minimal  impact  in offsetting the overall allocation of 
assets. Even  after including his other pension funds, the level of UCIS  holdings was not 
appropriate.
In my view, had Portafina requested information  about the proposed  investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest half of Mr Ms pension  in UCIS, it couldve queried  
this, given that it had only determined that he had a moderately adventurous ATR.
Ref: DRN05631457I dont agree with Portafinas assessment of Mr Ms risk rating as moderately  adventurous 
and will explain  why later.  However, I think that had appropriate enquiries  been made,  it 
wouldve become  apparent  something was amiss with Firms Cs proposal  and that the 
switch was therefore unsuitable and likely  to lead to Mr M being exposed  to more risk than 
Portafina considered  appropriate. 
Furthermore, I believe that Portafina  had the opportunity to establish  how Firm C intended  to 
invest Mr Ms portfolio, but for whatever reason it chose not to follow up on the information  it 
had been provided with. Portafina has provided a copy  of the SIPP  illustration produced on 
22 October 2014 which showed  an intended  asset  allocation within  the SIPP of 5% cash, 
45% in Unit Trust/OEICs and 50% in Structured Products.  A Structured Product can refer to 
various types of investment and does  not necessarily relate to UCIS,  although this is a 
possibility. However, its very ambiguity should have been a cause for concern to Portafina 
and prompted  them to seek further  clarification  on exactly how 50% of their clients assets  
were to be invested.
I think its likely that, having  realised how significantly the investments Firm C intended to 
make differed from those  that would be expected for Mr Ms circumstances, Portafina 
couldve taken preventative action. Although the illustration  was produced the day after the 
Suitability Report  was issued, the form for transfer  of servicing rights to Firm C which  
Portafina have  provided as part of its response was signed  by Mr M on 18 November 2014,  
a month  after the suitability  report  and the illustration were  issued.  There  was, therefore,  
sufficient time for enquiries to take place.
Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended  for Mr M. It shouldve  asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C 
had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portafina to have 
advised Mr M that it couldnt  recommend  he switch  his pension plans in those 
circumstances. If Portafina had warned Mr M against investing in line with Firm Cs proposal, 
I think its more likely than not that Mr M wouldve listened to it and not gone ahead  with the 
switch. 
In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr M when  assessing the suitability of the proposed  switch  meant  that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course  of action it recommended  as a solution  to Mr Ms 
needs was being made  on a sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings,  it seems to 
me that Firm C was in effect given  the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how 
Mr Ms SIPP was invested.
I recognise that the FCA allows  for two advisers  to work together to provide suitable advice 
to their mutual client. However,  the alerts  makes it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on 
a pension switch  needs to be aware of the intended investments before it advises on the 
switch, in order to provide  suitable advice. So, it shouldve requested  this information from 
Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed in the 2014 alert, if it didnt  fully 
understand the underlying  investment proposition intended to be held within  a SIPP, then it 
should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all So, in the absence of 
Portafina knowing the investments Firm C intended  for Mr M, it couldnt provide him with 
suitable advice  to switch his pension  benefits.
Ref: DRN05631458Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont  think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mr Ms funds were ultimately invested. Portafinas  recommendation that he 
switch to a SIPP in the first place is an important consideration. And were it not for the switch  
and Portafinas  incomplete and, in my view, flawed  advice  regarding this, Im not persuaded 
Mr M wouldve ultimately gone on to invest as he did.
The advice to switch  
At the time of Portafinas advice Mr M was 49 years old, employed and in good  health. He 
was a standard retail investor with seventeen  years  until he intended to retire. Aside from his 
state pension  entitlement  and modestly valued  OPS, the plans  being  switched formed  most 
of his retirement provision, being ten times larger  than the value of his OPS.  Other  than his 
pensions there was no record of Mr M having  any investments and he had only nominal 
savings. Although he was a home  owner, he had an outstanding amount on his mortgage. 
The PPP and GPP  were  invested in a managed  fund and a lifestyle  fund respectively. 
Neither of these were  adventurous,  or even moderately adventurous funds.  There was 
nothing in Mr Ms history to suggest any experience  with direct investments, or managing an 
investment portfolio, which  would suggest that the features  associated  with a SIPP  wrapper, 
e.g. management of assets, or non-standard investments, would be of any use to him.
Based on a risk profile Mr M completed, Portafina  said it believed  he had a moderately  
adventurous ATR. Portafinas suitability report described this as someone who was a fairly 
experienced investor whod used a range of investment  products in the past;  typically had 
moderate to high levels of financial knowledge;  was willing to take risk with a substantial 
portion of their available assets and who would usually take gambles. 
However, many of the responses recorded  to the risk attitude profiling questionnaire 
completed on 27 August  2014 directly contradict this definition.  For instance, Mr M agreed  
with the statement,  I generally look for safer investments, even  if that means lower returns  
and strongly agreed  with the statements, I tend to be anxious about the investment 
decisions Ive made and People who know me would describe me as a cautious  person.
Coupled with what was known of Mr Ms circumstances and experience, I dont think it was 
reasonable to conclude  that moderately adventurous accurately reflected the investment 
risk he was prepared  to take. I think it wouldve  been more reasonable to conclude that he 
was a relatively cautious or, at most, balanced investor. As Ive said, there was nothing to 
indicate Mr M had any previous investment  experience or high levels  of relevant knowledge. 
And as there was no evidence of him having any savings or assets other than his pension  
funds and house, there was nothing to suggest he was able to tolerate taking on additional 
risks with these funds. Any significant loss as a result of this would clearly have a serious 
impact on his future retirement  provision.
There was a clear cost to switching Mr Ms existing pension plans into a SIPP,  due to the 
exit charge on his PPP of £933, as well as the 3.5%  commission charged  by Portafina. Any 
additional charge to a consumer would provide a strong reason not to proceed with a course  
of action. So the benefits of switching would need to outweigh the cost to Mr Ms pension, as 
he was unlikely to be able to recoup these charges through  improved fund performance over 
the short to medium  term.
Ref: DRN05631459Several were listed in the Suitability Report  (referred to above) as the factors behind  Mr Ms 
desire to switch his pensions. However, none these, either individually or collectively, 
provided a compelling  reason to transfer his existing pension  plans into a SIPP. 
The first reason; consolidating his plans, would be of limited  benefit when Mr M was only 
reducing the number  of pension plans he held from two to one, or from three  to two if his 
OPS is included. Similarly, the charges he paid on his PPP and GPP  were low and were not 
being significantly reduced by switching, so there  was no real financial incentive to 
consolidate his plans.
Three of the objectives listed; flexibility and control,  accessing his TFC at his retirement  date 
and accessing  his benefits before his retirement date were already achievable by remaining 
in his existing  arrangements. Crucially, as Mr M was 49, he would not be able to access  the 
TFC or benefits for another  six years, so he had no reason to switch his funds at that time.
Another reason,  greater  investment fund choice, was of limited benefit when Mr M had little 
experience of investing in stocks and shares.  There wasnt any explanation as to why he 
wanted a greater fund choice, or what investments he wanted to make  that were  not 
available with his existing providers. Furthermore,  the value of the funds was relatively  low, 
meaning that he was unlikely  to be able to spread his investment across  a significantly 
greater range of funds  than the two funds his existing schemes already employed.
Two of the objectives, potentially higher investment performance and improved death 
benefits may or may not have been  achieved by switching, but this was purely speculative, 
especially when Portafina did not know how the funds were to be invested.  Any improved 
investment performance  leading to an increase in the fund value and a higher death benefit, 
was entirely dependent upon how the funds performed over the term to Mr Ms retirement.
As noted in the Suitability  Report, both the Managed and the Universal Lifestyle funds Mr M 
was originally invested in had both achieved average growth rates in excess  of 10% per 
annum for the last five years. This can be considered a very good rate of return  given the 
investment climate and I dont believe Portafina  could legitimately claim it could expect to 
outperform this level of growth with a different fund.  Especially  when  it didnt know what that 
fund or funds might be. Neither  of Mr Ms original funds were  high risk and there was no 
reason why he needed to switch to other investments when there  was limited prospect of 
them achieving significantly better returns,  without taking on a much higher  and likely  
inappropriate level of risk.
Portafina has argued that its own modelling  showed that Mr M would be in a marginally 
better position in the SIPP. It says its advisers  own calculation  showed Mr M would be better  
off in the long run, even  after charges were taken  into consideration, by 3% for his GPP  and 
0.02% for his PPP.  A copy of this calculation was not provided, but I do not think this is 
needed when  making my decision. Im not satisfied that this is a strong justification for the 
recommendation when the benefit for switching the PPP was negligible  and, if it didnt know 
how the funds  were to be invested, Portafinas own model didnt know what charges would 
be applied  on the funds within the SIPP, or how they might  reasonably  be expected  to 
perform. Any comparison  of performance  would therefore be purely speculative  and not 
based on the reality  of how the fund was to be invested.
Mr Ms objective of switching to a cheaper scheme  was not met by the recommendation to 
switch to the SIPP. Portafinas  argument  that the transfer would result in lower  charges in 
the long run was also undermined by its own statement in the Suitability Report:  
Ref: DRN056314510Overall, this strategy will cost more than your existing arrangement. Whilst the intention  is 
that this will be more  than compensated  for by the increased growth of your pension fund 
this cannot be guaranteed.
I dont think the advice for Mr M to switch his pensions into a SIPP was suitable. Overall,  the 
recommendation placed additional costs on Mr Ms pension, both at the date of the switch 
and throughout  the period  it was invested  in the SIPP. It increased the level of risk his funds 
were exposed to, which  was not appropriate  for his circumstances and did not offer any 
benefits that could not be achieved through his existing arrangements.
Ive thought about whether, if hed been  correctly advised by Portafina  not to switch, Mr M 
would have gone ahead with it anyway.  Having carefully considered all the circumstances in 
this case, I dont believe he would have. Theres nothing to suggest that Mr M was seriously 
considering moving  his PPP and GPP prior to being  referred to Portafina  for a pension  
review. My understanding  is that this referral came about as a result  of him meeting with 
another company to review  his mortgage. Mr M didnt appear to be proactively seeking  
pensions advice.
Had he been appropriately advised,  I think its more  likely that Mr M would  have chosen  to 
leave his pensions  with their existing providers,  as the costs  were low and the performance 
over the past five years had been  good.
As a professional adviser  which,  unlike Firm C, was authorised to provide pension  switch 
and transfer advice, Portafinas recommendation wouldve carried significant  weight and 
could, I believe,  have dissuaded Mr M from proceeding with the switch  and subsequent 
investments. I accept its possible Mr M may still have wanted  to go ahead anyway. But 
I think, at the very least, if Portafina had advised against this, that would have made him 
think about things.  Alternatively, if Mr M had proceeded against such advice, Portafina 
couldve discharged  its professional responsibility  to him appropriately. For example, it 
couldve treated him as an insistent client. However,  theres nothing to indicate Mr M was 
acting against  the advice  hed been given or that he would have done so.
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mr M are as a direct  result of the unsuitable 
advice provided  by Portafina. And had it not been  for this unsuitable advice, I dont  believe 
he would  have gone ahead with the switch of his PPP and GPP or invested half of his fund 
in UCIS. 
I recognise that it can be argued Firm C may have  also separately caused  some of Mr Ms 
losses. So, Ive considered whether I should  apportion only part of the responsibility for 
compensating the loss to Portafina.  In the circumstances, though,  I think apportioning 
responsibility to Portafina for the whole  of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont  
accept that anything Firm C did was an intervening act which  absolves  Portafina of its 
responsibility for Mr Ms losses.  
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were  in a business  relationship  
in which  each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring  about  a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment.  Because Firm C wasnt  
authorised to provide pension transfer advice, it referred Mr M to Portafina. Portafina advised 
Mr M to switch  his benefits to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged  for his existing 
pension benefits  to be switched over. I acknowledge that Firm C advised Mr M to invest  a 
significant share of his SIPP funds in UCIS. But, as Ive explained, Portafinas understanding  
Ref: DRN056314511that it could reasonably limit its advice to just the switch and the SIPP was wrong; it needed 
to consider the proposed  investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mr M on the 
investments. It was only as a result of Portafinas  involvement that Mr M switched the funds 
held in his PPP and GPP to the SIPP. Portafinas  role was pivotal, since the eventual  
investments were fully reliant on the funds being switched over first; if that hadnt happened, 
he couldnt have  invested as he did.
In terms of the FSCS, I am aware  that, as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont  pay out on 
claims where it is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction,  and it considers 
that firm might also be responsible for a consumers losses.  In Mr Ms case  the FSCS  has 
confirmed that as he has a complaint against  Portafina its unable to consider his claim. This 
means that apportionment of only part of the loss to Portafina could risk leaving Mr M out of 
pocket. But I think its important to point out that Im not saying Portafina is wholly 
responsible for the losses simply because Firm S and Firm C are now in liquidation.  My 
starting point as to causation is that Portafina  gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible for 
the losses Mr M suffered  in switching his existing benefits to the SIPP  and investing as he 
did. That isnt, to my mind, wrong  in law or irrational but reflects the facts  of the case  and my 
view of the fair and reasonable  position.  So, overall, I think  apportioning responsibility  to 
Portafina for the whole  of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
What should Portafina  do to put things right?
To compensate Mr M fairly Portafina  must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation  and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portafina is unable  to pay the compensation  into Mr M's pension  plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age.
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr M £200 for disruption  to his retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
Ref: DRN056314512interest, it should tell Mr M how much  has been  taken off. Portafina should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end  date)additional interest
SIPPstill 
existsFTSE  UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income 
Total  
Return 
Indexdate of switchdate of 
settlement8% simple per year 
from date of decision to 
date of settlement  (if 
compensation is not 
paid within 28 days of 
the business being 
notified of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) as may be the 
case here. Where this applies, the actual value  should be assumed  to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. Portafina should take ownership  of any illiquid investment by paying  a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from 
the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Portafina is unable  to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. Portafina  may require that Mr M provides an undertaking to 
pay Portafina any amount  he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portafina  totals  all those payments  and deduct  that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Future SIPP  fees
If Portafina had given suitable  advice  Mr M wouldnt have  the SIPP. The SIPP only exists  
because of the investments. In order for the SIPP to be closed (should Mr M wish to move 
his investment portfolio)  and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investments  need to be 
removed from the SIPP.  Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portafina  taking 
Ref: DRN056314513over the investments, or this is something that Mr M can discuss  with his SIPP  provider 
directly. But I dont  know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved, and we dont have  the power to tell them  what  to do. If any 
investment cant be removed, to provide certainty to all parties,  I think its fair that Portafina 
pay Mr M an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using 
the previous years fees). This should provide  a reasonable  period for the parties  to arrange 
for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some  investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portafina  LLP to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0563145