K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about the sale of a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  policy 
sold by Countrywide  Principal Services Limited  (Countrywide).
background
Mrs K and the late Mr K took out a joint mortgage  in 2005. At the same time, they took out 
MPPI cover but in respect of only the late Mr K. Mrs K doesnt seem  to have been covered 
by the policy.  
Our adjudicator said the complaint should  be upheld as the MPPI  wasnt suitable. 
Countrywide disagreed  so the case has been passed  to me for an ombudsmans  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
It appears that the MPPI  was sold during  a meeting  with an adviser. I dont know what  was 
said during that meeting, so Ive looked  at documents  from the time and the recollections of 
those involved to decide whats likely to have happened. Theres  no dispute that the policy  
was recommended by Countrywide. So it had a responsibility to make sure that it was 
suitable for Mrs K and the late Mr Ks circumstances. 
I dont think it was.
I say this because  we know the late Mr K suffered from a significant  medical  condition  at the 
time of this sale. Ive looked at the documentation  sent in by Countrywide but theres no 
mention of questions  being asked of the late Mr K about his health. So I cant  see that this 
was considered by the adviser at the time.
As Ive said,  the late Mr K had a pre-existing medical condition  when  the policy was sold to 
him and Im not satisfied that the information  Countrywide gave about  the policy exclusions 
for this was as clear  as it should  have  been.  
For example, the policy rules said it wouldnt pay out for any condition, injury,  illness,  
disease, sickness or related condition and/or associated symptoms . which you knew  
about or should reasonably have  known about at the time of the sale.  It goes on to describe 
that any chronic conditions wouldnt be covered either. 
Because the late Mr K suffered from a condition falling within these exclusions, I dont think  
the MPPI  was suitable for him. Thats because it substantially limited  the circumstances 
under which he could make a successful claim.  And if hed had this brought  to his attention,  I 
dont think he and Mrs K would have felt the policy offered value for money.
Countrywide had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that Mrs K 
and the late Mr K could  make an informed choice about whether or not to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN09680072I dont know whether the policy  rules were provided  during any meetings the parties had, but 
even if they were, I dont  think  the exclusion clauses dealing with pre-existing medical 
conditions were sufficiently prominent to have  caught their attention.  And theres no 
evidence that the exclusions were highlighted  or specifically drawn to their notice.
Having considered all the information,  I dont think the policy  was suitable and I dont think 
Mrs K and the late Mr K would have bought the policy  had they known this. 
what the business should  do to put things right
Countrywide should put Mrs K back in the position she would have been  in now if she and 
her late husband  hadnt  taken out the MPPI.  The policy  should  be cancelled  if it hasnt been 
already. And Countrywide should:  
-Pay Mrs K  the amount she and the late Mr K paid each month for the MPPI;
-Add simple interest to each payment from when she and the late Mr K paid it until 
she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year;
-If the late Mr K made a successful claim under the MPPI policy, Countrywide  can 
take off what he got for the claim  from the amount it now owes Mrs K.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Countrywide to take off tax from the interest. Countrywide must  
give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above I uphold this complaint and I direct Countrywide 
Principal Services Limited to pay the compensation  Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K and the 
estate of the late Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0968007