K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr M says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2003.  The policy was free for a year and then 
after this period Mr M paid a monthly amount for this policy. The policy  provided cover  for 
accident and sickness and, if he had made  a successful claim, the policy would  have paid 
out the monthly benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I realise  this will come as a disappointment for Mr M 
and Ill explain my reasons for reaching this outcome.
Nationwide had to make it clear  that the policy was optional  and Mr M had to agree to take it 
out. Ive been given  a copy  of the mortgage application form which  was completed with an 
independent advisor (not Nationwide). I can see that there is a section for the PPI and there 
are tick boxes to select whether or not information  about PPI is required and which  level of 
cover Mr M was interested  in. On his application  I can see that the box asking for details  
about how to protect  his mortgage against  accident and sickness  has been ticked. Mr M has 
signed this section to confirm that he agreed  with the information request. If he didnt want to 
take out PPI he could  have ticked the no option.
Due to Mr M expressing an interest in PPI via the intermediary, Nationwide  provided a 
separate PPI application form. Ive seen a copy of this form which appears to have  been  
completed sometime after the initial mortgage application. I can see that Mr M has been  
detailed on the form and I can see that the level of cover has been ticked  along with how 
long he wanted  the benefit  to last  in this case 12 months. He has signed the form which 
suggests it reflected  what he wanted.  If Mr M didnt want  to take out PPI he could have left 
this form blank.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Mr M was given a choice whether to 
take out the PPI and he agreed to the cover, knowing he could refuse it if he didnt want  it.
Mr M has said it was implied that he wouldnt get the mortgage  without  taking out the PPI. 
The advice on the likelihood of being approved for the mortgage  was provided by the 
intermediary so any complaints Mr M has about that would need to be directed to them as 
they arranged  the mortgage. Nationwide only provided information  on the PPI policy to him 
due to Mr M saying he wanted  more  details on the mortgage form.
Ref: DRN01645092Looking at Nationwides involvement, I cant know with certainty what Mr M was told when 
he was sold the PPI but I havent found  any other  evidence to support that he was told by 
Nationwide that the mortgage wouldnt be approved  without PPI. And as the initial 
application form allowed  Mr M to say no to any form of PPI, this isnt something I would 
expect to see if the PPI was a condition of the lending.
Mr M has made several  points  about  why he thinks the PPI policy shouldnt have been sold 
to him as it wasnt suitable  for his circumstances.  From what  I have been  told, Nationwide 
provided the application form and information about the PPI following his expression of 
interest in the product on the mortgage  form. I havent seen anything to show Nationwide 
discussed the policy with him directly or completed a review  of his personal  circumstances.  
So I think its more likely  Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M. This means it didnt 
have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr M got the information he 
needed to decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Mr M has told us he would have had sufficient sick pay and savings to enable him to make 
his mortgage repayments  so he didnt need  the policy.  And he has said he had other 
insurance policies  available. As Ive mentioned previously, Nationwide didnt recommend the 
policy to him  it was for Mr M to decide if the policy would be beneficial to him based on 
what he knew of his personal situation. But, in any event, the policy  would pay out in addition 
to any sick pay he may have received and would have meant  that he could protect  any 
savings he may have had for another purpose or use them  to help pay for other essential 
living expenses.
Mr M has told us that he had a several medical conditions at the time of taking out the policy. 
As a result  he has said this policy shouldnt have been sold to him as he couldnt make  a 
claim for anything related  to those conditions. Ive looked  at the policy wording and, whilst 
this policy  does exclude pre-existing conditions, this exclusion only applies  for the first 12 
months of cover. And as this policy was free for the first year,  Mr M wasnt  paying premiums 
during the time when the pre-existing  conditions may not have been covered. So this point 
doesnt change  my decision.
So overall, when  taking everything  into account, I dont think  that Mr M has lost out as a 
result of anything that Nationwide  may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Ref: DRN01645093Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0164509