K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular (monthly)  premium payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out in conjunction  with a loan. Mr W says that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold the 
policy.
background
Mr W applied  for a loan from Lloyds in January 2009  and at the same time PPI was 
purchased. The application for the PPI was made  during  a meeting in a branch of Lloyds. 
Lloyds says that this policy was recommended to Mr W based  on his circumstances at the 
time. It states when  the loan application was made  at the meeting Mr W had to actively 
consent for the PPI to be added to his loan account.  Also that Mr W was provided  with 
information and documents  so that he could decide  if he wanted to take out the policy.  
Lloyds does not accept the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator said that he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr W disagrees so 
the complaint  comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case. Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
was the policy optional? Did Mr W consent to the policy?
First of all, Ive considered  whether the policy was optional.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ws loan agreement and I note that there  is a separate section 
headed Loan  Protection  Insurance  Statement of Price which  includes the monthly 
premium and total cost of the insurance  over the term of the loan, together with a statement 
that the PPI was optional, and that cover was available  only for the first named borrower.  
Additionally there is a tick by the wording  I wish to purchase loan protection  insurance and 
the section bears Mr Ws signature, separately  from his signature in relation to the loan itself.
I accept that I cant know what was discussed during the meeting, and that its possible the 
adviser didnt draw Mr Ws attention  to the cover  when completing the form. However, its 
also possible  that Mr W chose to accept  the recommendation  to take out the policy, and 
simply no longer recalls that element of the conversation. Taking all of the evidence  into 
account, Im not persuaded that the PPI cover was added to Mr Ws loan without his 
knowledge and consent. And Im satisfied that he actively chose to purchase  it.
was the policy suitable for Mr W?
On this occasion Lloyds recommended that Mr W take out the PPI policy,  so it had to ensure 
the policy was suitable for him. And in this case,  based on Mr Ws circumstances at the time 
of the sale, Im not persuaded that the policy was unsuitable.
I say this because:
Ref: DRN06464192Given Mr Ws circumstances  at the time of the sale (and taking account of the policy 
conditions), Im satisfied that he was eligible for the cover; he was aged between  18 and 
65; was employed;  a UK resident; and was first named on the loan agreement.
It doesnt appear that Mr W wouldve been affected by any of the significant limitations or 
exclusions of the cover; such  as those relating to unusual employment  arrangements  or 
pre-existing medical conditions  he told us he was employed and in good  health  so he 
could have benefited from the full extent of the policy.
Mr W told us that he wouldve received some occupational sick pay in the event that he 
couldnt work due to sickness  or an accident but he was not in possession of any other 
cover, and he hasnt told us about any savings he had at the time of the sale.  Although  
Mr Ws sick pay suggests he may have been able to cope for some  time if he became 
unable to work due to an accident or sickness, with the policy, Mr W could  receive loan 
repayments for the full term of the loan in the event  of an accident  or sickness,  and up to 
12 months of repayments in the event of unemployment, and the loan would be paid off 
in the unfortunate event of his death. In short, the benefits the policy  would pay out were  
in addition to his existing arrangements.
Mr W told us that he wouldve been  able to rely on his family and friends for financial 
support. While I understand  the point he seeks to make, there  could be no guarantee 
that they would be in any position to help him at some unknown  point  in the future.
did Lloyds give Mr W sufficient information?
Ive also considered whether Lloyds made the cost of the PPI clear to Mr W at the time of the 
sale, so that he could decide  whether or not the cover represented value for money. And 
having reviewed  the documentation, Im satisfied that Mr W ought to have been  aware  how 
much the policy  would cost him on a monthly  basis. I say this because the loan agreement 
states the monthly cost of the policy as £88.68 and the total costs of the policy if it ran for the 
full 84 months of the loan would be £7,449.12. So, in my view, Lloyds displayed  the cost of 
the PPI clearly and fairly, enabling  Mr W to make  a suitably  informed choice. 
I cannot know for sure whether all Mr Ws information needs were  met, however, as Ive 
already explained, Mr W doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the limitations or 
exclusions of the policy, and so Im not persuaded that better information would have 
deterred him from taking  out the PPI.
Whilst I accept  its possible there may have  been some shortcomings  in the way the policy  
was sold, Im not persuaded Mr W has been  disadvantaged as a result because  in my view, 
he appears to have had a need for the insurance  and couldve benefited  from the cover it 
provided. Im not persuaded the policy was unsuitable or that Mr W would have acted 
differently and declined the policy had he been  better advised and informed.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. 
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
When the policy was sold,  Lloyds got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr W about  that. Because  Lloyds 
didnt tell Mr W, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN06464193To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said  but these points dont change my decision.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W. 
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0646419