K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1994.  They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy.  
They applied for the mortgage and PPI at a meeting with Lloyds  and the policy provided 
cover for Mr H only. Mrs H wasnt covered by the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds shouldve made it clear the PPI was optional.  And it shouldve got Mr and Mrs Hs 
agreement to buy it. Mr and Mrs H say it wasnt made clear to them  that the PPI was 
optional. Ive seen  a copy of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage and PPI application.  There  was a 
section on the form which said Do you require cover against accident  sickness and 
involuntary unemployment. Mr H ticked yes to this and chose the amount of cover. So I think 
Lloyds made  Mr and Mrs H aware  that they had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that they 
chose to take it. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, so it shouldve made sure it was right for 
them. Mr H says they didnt need  it as he wouldve received  sick pay for a significant time 
from his employer. 
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage was a significant,  long-term, financial commitment. If Mr H couldnt  
work for a long period  of time they may have found  this difficult  to pay. As the mortgage was 
secured on their home,  Mr and Mrs H couldve potentially lost their property if they fell into 
financial difficulties. 
The PPI wouldve paid Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage  payment  if Mr H couldnt work due to 
illness, or he lost his job. The payment wouldve been in addition to any employer, or 
unemployment benefits, he might have received if this happened.  It couldve provided a 
payment for up to 12 months per claim.  
Ref: DRN00016952Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mr and Mrs H couldnt  afford to make the monthly payments for 
the PPI at the time of sale. And Mr H doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical  conditions.  So overall the 
PPI seems to have been right for them  based  on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But as I said earlier, based on what I know  about  Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances, it looks like the policy couldve been useful to them. So I dont think  better 
information wouldve  stopped them buying it. And I dont think Mr and Mrs H have lost out 
due to anything  that Lloyds mightve done  wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0001695