K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with a rate switch they undertook on their Barclays Bank UK PLC 
mortgage. They say the new rate should  have  taken effect from 1 November 2018, rather  
than 1 January  2019, and the delay cost them nearly £2,000  in higher payments.
background
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage with Barclays which was subject to an early repayment charge 
(ERC) until 31 December  2018.
In October  2018 Mr and Mrs L had some conversations  with Barclays about potential new 
rates for their mortgage. They say they were told they could  switch  early  as long as it was 
within 90 days of the end of the ERC  period  without incurring the ERC.
The adviser Mr and Mrs L were  dealing with sent them details of the products Barclays  had 
available. Mr and Mrs L were asking  Barclays to waive the product fee, saying theyd seen a 
product elsewhere  with a lender Ill refer to as S. Barclays said it wouldnt  waive the product 
fee and the adviser arranged to call Mr and Mrs L to complete their product switch  
application. When he got hold of Mr and Mrs L they said theyd  completed  the switch  online 
on 31 October 2018.
Soon after Mr and Mrs L spoke to Barclays as the product switch hadnt  gone through  on 
1 November 2018 as theyd requested. Barclays said the switch  wouldnt take place until 
1 January 2019 as Mr and Mrs L had an ERC on the existing mortgage  product until then.
Unhappy with this Mr and Mrs L complained  to Barclays. Barclays said there was an issue 
with its online system that allowed consumers to select any date within  the next 90 days for 
the switch to be completed irrespective of whether or not they were  eligible for that date due 
to an existing ERC. It apologised for the confusion  and offered £150 compensation. It also 
offered to unwind the product switch  and refund the product  fee, in effect  allowing 
Mr and Mrs L to move  their mortgage to S as they said they would have.  
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept that and referred  their complaint to our service, saying they 
wanted the difference between what they paid between 1 November and 1 January and 
what they would have paid had the rate switch gone through as theyd  expected.
Our case handlers said Barclays offer was a fair resolution as Mr and Mrs L werent  eligible 
for a product  switch (unless  they paid ERC) at that time. Mr and Mrs L didnt agree and so 
its been passed to me to decide
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr and Mrs L wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments  to what  I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.
Ref: DRN00456832Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case Mr and Mrs L say they were led to believe they could switch their 
mortgage product  on 1 November 2018  without incurring an ERC. I dont actually need to 
make a finding on that as it doesnt alter the outcome of this complaint. Thats  because, if 
proven, this would  be a mistaken statement of facts;  otherwise known as a 
misrepresentation. When were looking at complaints of this type, we consider the 
appropriate remedy is to place the consumer  in the position they would be in if the incorrect 
information hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if it had 
been correct.  
Mr and Mrs L could never  have been  in the position  where they could switch to the new 
product during the ERC  period of their existing product without incurring that ERC.  
Irrespective of being allowed to choose an earlier  date online, and any dates mentioned  in 
the paperwork, that is the simple fact of the matter.  Mr and Mrs L may say Barclays  entered 
into a contract to switch  on 1 November 2018,  but that ignores the fact on the front page of 
the 2018 mortgage offer it says If your mortgage  product has not yet expired, we will make  
the changes to your account when it does.
When dealing with the complaint Barclays offered to remove  the product switch  application 
and refund the fee, thus allowing  Mr and Mrs L to remortgage to S. Mr and Mrs L have said 
by then S had withdrawn  its product. When  asked recently for the details of the product, 
Mr and Mrs L said that theyd thrown  out all their paperwork. But they recalled theyd 
enquired directly with S and they believe the product was a tracker with no setup fee for less 
than 1%, compared  to the 1.58% fixed rate (with a £999 product fee) theyd arranged  
through Barclays.
Ive considered this point  carefully and spent  a lot of time researching this and discussing 
potential rates directly  with S. Having done so Im satisfied there was no tracker rate with S 
for less than 1%, let alone  one with no setup fee. It may be Mr and Mrs L are recalling  a 
product S had available  which was Bank of England base rate plus 0.99% (hence a possible 
confusion about  it being under 1%), but as the Bank  of England base rate was 0.75% that 
gave an actual pay rate of 1.74%.  It also had a £999 product fee. And in actual fact rather  
than being withdrawn, this product had actually been improved at the time Barclays  offered  
to allow  Mr and Mrs L out of the product  switch,  as by that time it was Bank  of England  base 
rate plus 0.69% (still with a £999 fee) which gave pay rate of 1.44%. Having looked  at the 
other rates S had available they were less competitive, especially those without fees.
So to summarise, Mr and Mrs L could  never  have  achieved  a new rate before the ERC 
period ended on 31 December 2018  unless they paid that ERC. Had Barclays clearly  told 
them this when they try to switch online then Mr and Mrs L had the option to either  proceed  
with switch on the understanding it wouldnt take effect until the ERC period  ended,  or they 
could have chosen to remortgage  with S as they say was their intention. The position they 
are now in is the first of those, the switch took effect  after the ERC period ended. And 
Barclays offered to put them  in the second  position when it considered  their complaint. That 
is, it said it could cancel  the rate switch application to allow them  to move their mortgage to 
S. Mr and Mrs L have said the reason they didnt take the second option  was that the rate 
had been withdrawn, but as Ive shown above in fact the rate had been improved and 
remained available at the lower interest  rate at that time.  So if they had truly wanted to move  
their mortgage to S they could  have  done so.
Ref: DRN00456833That means Mr and Mrs L have  already had the appropriate remedy  in that they could  have 
chosen from either of the two options,  the same as they should have been able to do when 
they completed the rate switch online. As I said the redress for a mis-representation, as this 
was, is to put them back in the position they would have been  in had they been given the 
correct information  and Im satisfied  Barclays  gave them that option when it dealt with the 
complaint.
Were not the regulator and its not our role to fine or punish  a business and our awards 
arent punitive. Clearly  no amount of compensation  can change what happened. Barclays 
offered to pay £150 compensation and having  looked at all the evidence  and keeping in 
mind the level of award we normally make  I consider  that to be fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  in the sense that I consider Barclays Bank  
UK PLC made a fair offer in its response to Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN0045683