K820x#14complaint
Mrs L has complained  to us that MBNA  Limited  (MBNA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy  in 2000 when she applied for a credit  card.  The policy  was designed 
to pay out in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that it shouldnt  be upheld.  Mrs 
L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided this policy wasnt mis-sold  and Ill explain  the reasons for this.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the policy. Based on Mrs Ls 
circumstances at the time, it looks like she met these rules.  So I think  shed have been able 
to claim on the policy if shed needed to.
Next Ive looked at whether MBNA made  it sufficiently clear  to Mrs L that she had a choice 
about whether  or not to take out the policy. Ive been provided with a copy  of Mrs Ls original 
card application  form.  This had two boxes to tick or decline the PPI. On Mrs Ls form the 
yes box was ticked. 
Mrs L told us she thinks this was because someone  else filled in the yes box after she sent 
off the form. I have considered this possibility but there isnt persuasive evidence which 
supports this. In addition,  it doesnt  explain why Mrs L wouldnt have ticked  the no box 
before completing  the form. Ive also had to take account of the possibility that, given that the 
sale took place  over 18 years ago, Mrs L may no longer recall details about her application. 
Having considered all the available information, I think on balance  its most likely MBNA 
made it clear  to Mrs L that the policy was optional  and she chose  to take it out. 
Next, MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L, so it didnt have to make  sure that it was 
suitable for her. But it was required to provide her with enough information about the policy 
so she could make the decision for herself about whether or not to take it out. 
I've looked  at the possibility that MBNA  didnt  give Mrs L clear  enough information  about the 
costs, benefits, main exclusions and restrictions on the policy.  But the cost was low in 
comparison to the cost of other, similar policies available at the time. Ive considered that 
Mrs L might  have been entitled  to sick pay or redundancy pay from her employer. But shes 
been unable  to recall whether or not this was the case. In addition, the PPI would have paid 
out for up to twelve months if she was too ill to work or was made  unemployed. So in this 
Ref: DRN07741522case, I dont think  its likely  that having  better information about  the costs  or benefit of the 
policy would have put Mrs L off taking out the PPI. 
Ive also considered that its possible  MBNA didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt 
cover. But given her circumstances, Mrs L wouldnt  have been affected  by any of the policys 
main exclusions  and restrictions. On balance, I dont think  having better information about 
these would have  dissuaded her from buying the PPI. So overall,  I dont think this policy was 
mis-sold.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about  that. Because  MBNA  didnt tell Mrs L, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs L.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Mrs L any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0774152