K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about two personal  loans he took out with Everyday Lending Limited  
(trading as Everyday Loans). He says that Everyday Loans provided  him with loans he 
couldnt afford.
background
This complaint is about two loans Mr H was provided with April 2016 and July 2016. His 
borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Received Consolidation Term Repayment
1 April 2016 £2000 £2000 None 24 months £203.44
2 July 2016 £3850 £2250.66 Loan 1 (£1599.34) 24 months £317.02
When it investigated Mr Hs complaint, Everyday Loans didnt think it had done  anything 
wrong or had acted  unfairly when providing  Mr H with either  of his loans. Mr H was 
dissatisfied with this and referred  his complaint to our service. One of our investigators then 
looked at Mr Hs complaint. She thought that Everyday Loans  had unfairly provided these 
loans to Mr H and so upheld Mr Hs complaint.  
Everyday Loans  didnt accept our investigators  assessment. As Everyday Loans disagreed  
with our investigator the case was passed to an ombudsman.
 
the regulatory and legal framework
Everyday Loans  was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
throughout the period  it lent to Mr H. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated  firms 
are required  to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.  
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like Everyday Loans. 
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations  in relation to responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out 
a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
Ref: DRN00256272Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the Office  of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) first published in March  2010 and the rules  set out in 
CONC 5 and CONC 6. As is evident from the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules 
specifically note and refer back to sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on 
many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
Ref: DRN00256273CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC 5A.3 contains the rules regarding the total amount of charges a firm is permitted to 
impose on a HCSTC agreement.
CONC5A.3.2R says:
Cost caps: imposition  of charges etc.: Total  cost cap
A firm must not:
(1)impose one or more  charges,  on a borrower under an agreement  for high-cost short-
term credit , that, alone or in combination with any other  charge under the agreement 
or a connected agreement, exceed or are capable of exceeding  the amount 
of credit provided under the agreement;
(2) arrange for or instruct another  person to take the step described  in (1).
 
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Ref: DRN00256274All of Mr Hs loans were provided  after Section  140 of the Consumer Credit Act came into 
force on 6 April 2007. Section 140A sets out circumstances where the court may determine 
that the relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair  to the debtor. Section 140A 
says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(1)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
Ref: DRN00256275(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
Ive also taken account of the Consumer Credit Act (including the provisions  I havent  set out 
above), and other relevant  legislation, including the law relating  to negligence, 
misrepresentation and contract;  as well as the law relating to causation and remoteness.
other relevant publications  and good industry  practice
CONC set out the regulatory framework that authorised consumer credit providers have to 
adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms. And as Ive explained, Im also 
required to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice,  and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice.
the FCAs Portfolio  Strategy Letter to firms providing  high cost lending products
On 6 March 2019,  The FCA wrote  a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer  of all 
firms allocated to the High  Cost Lenders  portfolio. The letter  set out the FCAs view of the 
key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers  and the markets they operate  in. On 
page two of this letter,  the FCA sets out its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed  
their strategies and business models.  We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number  and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request  to firms  in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  may not be 
able to afford.
On page three of the letter, in the section entitled Complaints it says:
Ref: DRN00256276We expect firms  to fulfil all relevant  obligations, including  analysing the root causes of 
complaints and taking  into account  the Financial  Ombudsman  Services relevant decisions. 
We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in 
the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to 
all firms in the portfolio.
the FCAs Dear CEO letter on affordability  of High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC)  loans
On 15 October 2018, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO  letter  to the Chief  Executive Officer of all 
HCSTC providers. The letter was about  the issues surrounding the increase  in complaints 
about unaffordable lending.
The third paragraph  of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently  published four examples of determinations of 
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues  raised in 
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm ). 
If relevant,  firms  should take these examples of determinations into account  as part of 
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP  1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight  in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged 
in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014,  in which we said that we were 
concerned that repeat  borrowing could indicate  a pattern of dependency  on HCSTC that is 
harmful to the borrower. We noted  that rigorous  affordability assessments  were key to 
avoiding harm in this area, and firms  should ensure they are making responsible 
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to provisionally decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  industry  practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Everyday Loans, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr H would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr H wouldve been able to do so?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Everyday Loans did not act fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr H 
and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Ref: DRN00256277Did Everyday Loans, each time it lent complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr H would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
Regulations in place at the time Everyday  Loans  was lending to Mr H required it to carry out 
a reasonable assessment of whether Mr H could afford to repay his loans  in a sustainable 
manner. This is sometimes referred  to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The affordability checks shouldve been borrower-focused  so Everyday Loans had to 
think about whether  repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr H. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Loans to think only 
about the likelihood that it would get its money  back without considering the impact  of 
repayment on Mr H himself.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check will more likely  than not look different for different 
loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps  between loans. Ive thought  about  all the relevant factors  in this case.
Its my understanding that for loan one Mr H was asked to provide details of his monthly 
income and monthly  expenditure.  Ive also seen that Everyday Loans carried out a credit 
check. The information provided also indicates  that Everyday Loans was told Mr H was living 
with his parents.  And it assumed that Mr H would use 35% of his monthly income to pay for 
living expenses. 
Ref: DRN00256278The income and expenditure assessment provided  suggested Mr H would have a remaining 
monthly disposable income of £457.54  after the payments for this loan were made. Everyday 
Loans says that its credit  checks showed  a number  of payday loans but that this loan was 
going to be used to consolidate them. 
Everyday Loans  contact notes suggest that it requested  copies of Mr Hs bank statements  
although it hasnt  provided this in its file. Equally, Im also unsure as to why it needed  to 
estimate Mr Hs living expenses  if it had his bank statements. So its unclear what evidence 
Everyday Loans  asked for and received and what weight it placed  on the information 
gathered when considering Mr Hs application.   
Ive carefully thought  about the checks Everyday Loans says it carried out.
I think that Everyday Loans  ought  fairly  and reasonably to have queried why Mr H needed to 
borrow £2000  to clear payday  loans  due to a number of short-term lenders - and repay it 
over two years if he genuinely  had around  £650  each  month  (excluding  the payments to this 
loan) in disposable income  available to him. This is especially the case  as the sheer number 
of outstanding payday loans also suggested it was highly unlikely Mr H had this level of 
disposable income. 
Mr H was then provided  with a further  £2250 within three months of taking loan one. And this 
meant that he had to borrow  £3850 in total as (presumably because  Everyday Loans doesnt 
allow borrowers to have more than one loan and) £1599.74 went to settling loan one. It also 
appears as though Everyday Loans  carried out similar checks and arrived at Mr H having  a 
similar disposable income level left over  even though  he required further funds and still 
had outstanding payday loans.   
Im mindful that CONC 5.2.4G(2) provides some guidance on the proportionality  of 
assessments. And it makes it clear that the risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge  for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation. Everyday  Loans will have been aware of Mr Hs history of 
payday loans  before he took either of these loans. 
And if it had looked  at Mr Hs bank  statements,  which  it says it obtained,  it would also have 
seen that Mr H had payday loans from other providers not included on its list. So Everyday 
Loans ought to have  been aware that Mr Hs financial situation suggested that hed 
developed a reliance on expensive credit  and this ought to have  played  a part in determining 
whether any further  borrowing was sustainable.     
Yet I cant see that Everyday Loans  did do this. Indeed  it seemed  to proceed on with these 
applications on the basis of estimated living expenses and a wholly unreasonable  monthly 
disposable income, given the circumstances. 
So to sum up, Im concerned  that Everyday Loans checks for Mr H were  based on an 
estimate, which any reasonable  assessment  of the information to hand ought to have alerted 
it to the fact that it was at best overoptimistic and at worst wholly inaccurate.  And I think  that 
Everyday Loans  decision to proceed with Mr Hs application on this basis  meant that it didnt 
complete reasonable or proportionate checks for either of Mr Hs loans.
Would proportionate checks on these loans have indicated to Everyday Loans that Mr H 
would have been unable to repay his loans in a sustainable manner?
Ref: DRN00256279As proportionate  checks werent carried out for these loans, I cant say for sure what  they 
wouldve shown. So I need to decide  whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate 
check would  have told Everyday Loans that it was unfair to give these loans  to Mr H, given 
his financial circumstances at the time. Mr H has provided us with evidence of his financial 
circumstances at the time he applied for these  loans.
Of course,  I accept different checks might show different things. And just because something  
shows up in the information Mr H has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any 
checks Everyday Loans mightve carried out. But in the absence  of anything else from 
Everyday Loans  showing what  steps  it took to verify the information  provided (and how it 
interpreted it), I think its fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an 
indication of what Mr Hs financial circumstances were likely to have been at the time. 
Ive carefully looked through everything Mr Hs provided and Ive also thought  about  
everything both parties have said. Having done  so, I dont think Mr H had the capacity to 
take on these  loans. 
I think that itd be helpful  for me to start by explain that Everyday Loans  was required to 
establish whether  Mr H could sustainably make  his loan repayments  not just whether the 
loan payments were  affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  Of course  the loan 
payments being  affordable on this basis might  be an indication that a consumer could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  that this is the case. 
This is because CONC defines sustainable  as being  without undue  difficulties  and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that if a lender  realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower  
wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make  
their repayments without borrowing further.   
I think this is important because the information Ive seen indicates  that Mr H had significant 
debts with a number of existing creditors. He was also heavily  overdrawn  and rarely  saw a 
credit balance on his current account.  
Ive seen what Everyday  Loans says about  its notes from the time indicating  that the payday 
loans were taken because of Christmas, to see family abroad  in an emergency  and to make 
up the deficit in a car purchase. But the sheer number of loans and providers coupled with 
the fact that its loans  were taken in April and July, and the gambling  transactions  on Mr Hs 
statements leads me to consider that there was no reasonable basis  for finding this 
explanation plausible let alone persuasive.
Having carefully considered everything, I think there  was no reasonable prospect of Mr H 
being able to make his payments without  undue difficulty or borrowing further.  And as I think  
that proportionate and reasonable checks would  have shown Everyday Loans all of this, it 
follows that I think proportionate and reasonable checks wouldve alerted it to the fact that  
Mr H wouldnt  have been able to sustainably make the repayments to these loans.  
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Whilst my conclusion  on these loans being unsustainable for Mr H is, on its own, enough for 
me to uphold the complaint, Everyday  Loans made a number of arguments  in response to 
our investigators view. As this is the case, I think it is worth  me reflecting on Everyday  
Ref: DRN002562710Loans arguments so as to give a proper sense of my thinking  in relation to them  and to 
explain why I wouldve, in any event,  upheld the complaint  about  these loans,  even if I hadnt  
made the findings I had in the section above.
CONC 2.2.2G sets out some examples of behaviour  which if carried  out by a firm are likely 
to contravene its Principle  6 obligation to treat its customers  fairly.  CONC 2.2.2G (1) lists one 
example as: 
targeting customers with regulated credit  agreements which are unsuitable for them, by 
virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason
I think that there is an argument  here for saying that Mr H was provided with a regulated 
credit agreement that was unsuitable  for him by virtue of his indebtedness, as I think  that he 
was unfairly transitioned from loans where  the total amount he could repay was capped  to 
ones which  werent.  
Everyday Loans  response to our investigators  assessment  suggests  that it believes 
providing these  loans helped Mr H avoid more serious consequences  such  as defaulting  or 
going onto a debt management plan. It also says that it has to question whether the 
Ombudsman (its unclear whether Everyday Loans means the service as a whole, our 
investigator, or a particular ombudsman) are considering the overall fairness  on what is the 
correct outcome for the consumer  rather  than just focusing on the cost of the product   
Im afraid that Im not persuaded by Everyday Loans argument  that it was fair and 
reasonable for it to provide this loan or that it do so for altruistic purposes. To explain, 
Everyday Loans  has argued that our investigator ought to have considered  that Mr H was in 
financial difficulty previously and had he not been  provided with this loan he would have 
defaulted or gone into a debt management plan.  
So Everyday Loans argument here appears to accept that Mr H was struggling financially. 
And, in these circumstances, I think that it would have been fair, reasonable and 
proportionate for Everyday Loans  to have  recognised this and also factor it in to any product 
offered, when lending to him. In my view, Everyday Loans didnt do that and instead unfairly 
took advantage of the situation  by providing loans, over an extended  period, which resulted 
in Mr H paying very high rates of interest. 
To be clear, had it not been the case that I think proportionate checks wouldve shown these 
to be unsustainable,  I wouldnt say it was unfair per se for Everyday  Loans  to have provided      
Mr Hs loans, given his apparent need  to re-borrow - after all this mightve allowed him to 
repay what he already  owed more gradually  and leave his finances  with more  breathing  
space. That said even  though it might not have been  unfair  per se for Everyday Loans to 
refinance an existing  loan, this doesnt mean  that it was fair or reasonable for Everyday 
Loans to provide these loans on the terms it did. 
I accept that this loan was provided  after the extortionate credit  bargaining provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act 19741 were replaced by the Unfair Relationship  provisions (contained 
in section 140). But the effect of this series of loans was that it created a cumulative interest 
rate so outrageous2 that I think a court may well have found  it grossly exorbitant and that the 
agreement grossly contravened  ordinary principles of fair dealing.
1 s137-140 Consumer  Credit Act 1974
2 Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, 5.267
Ref: DRN002562711This is especially the case when bearing  in mind the following:
the prevailing interest rates  when the loans were  advanced on the respective 
occasions;
Mr Hs weak  bargaining position,  considering his need  to refinance and Everyday 
Loans own assertion  that he was struggling  financially;
Mr H being advised to transition from products where the total amount he repaid  
couldnt exceed twice what he originally borrowed to one where the total amount to 
be repaid wasnt  capped;
the argument here isnt that these  loans werent  high-cost  but that they werent  short-
term;
the cumulative  effect of Mr H being provided these loans over an extended  period.
And as the Unfair  Relationship provisions were  brought in to increase consumer protection3, 
I also think its entirely possible that a court may well find that an unfair  relationship existed 
between Everyday Loans and Mr H at the time of these  loans   bearing in mind  Everyday 
Loans apparent  acknowledgement  of Mr Hs financial  difficulty - although I cant  say this for 
certain.
But, in any event, even  if this isnt the case,  Im required to decide what I think  is fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances of this case. And I find that Mr H was provided, or 
targeted, with loans  which had interest rates which, on the face of things, made them  
unsuitable for him bearing in mind  his existing financial position.  In my view, this had the 
effect of unfairly  and excessively increasing and prolonging Mr Hs overall indebtedness.  
This is especially as the effect of these loans  meant  that Mr H was repaying loans over an 
extended period  at an interest rate thats  only really suitable for products intended where the 
credit is intended to repaid over a short term period and where  hed end up paying 
substantially more as a result. 
Equally, I also think that Everyday Loans argument that Mr H either  took its loans on these 
terms or defaulted elsewhere presents  a false dichotomy. I say this while  mindful of 
Everyday Loans  obligation to treat its customers fairly and reasonably and the fact that 
Everyday Loans  could quite conceivably offered any number of other solutions if it was 
genuinely acting  in Mr Hs best interests as it appears to be arguing it did. I dont think that 
Everyday Loans  did act Mr Hs best interests and, in my view,  it took advantage of Mr Hs 
difficult financial position.     
So taking all of this into account, I think that it was unfair for Everyday  Loans  to have 
provided these loans to Mr H, in these  particular circumstances, irrespective of whether they 
were sustainable.  And this means that had I not already reached  the conclusion  
proportionate checks wouldve  shown Everyday Loans that these  loans were  unsustainable 
for Mr H, I wouldve, in any event, reached the conclusion that Everyday Loans acted unfairly  
or unreasonably  in some other way towards Mr H.
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on page 
seven of this decision,  I think  that Everyday Loans  unfairly and unreasonably provided Mr H 
3 Fair, Clear and Competitive, The consumer  credit  market in the 21st century  Department for Trade 
and Industry  White Paper (2003), p 52-53 
Ref: DRN002562712with these loans.  As Mr H ended up paying interest and charges on loans he shouldnt have 
been given, I think that he lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong. 
So I think that Everyday  Loans now needs  to put things right.
fair compensation  what  Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr H.
Having carefully considered everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Hs complaint for Everyday Loans to put things right in the following 
way:
add up the total amount of money Mr H received as a result  of having been  given 
both loans. The payments Mr H made to these loans should be deducted  from this 
amount. Any payments  made, if any, after the total amount repaid exceeds  the 
amount of money Mr H was given should  be treated as overpayments;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, should there be any, from 
the date they were  paid by Mr H, if they were,  to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Hs credit file as a result  of these 
loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans  must  give Mr H a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
Id also remind Everyday  Loans of its obligations  to treat Mr H positively and sympathetically 
should an outstanding balance remain on the second loan even after all adjustments  have 
been made, and it be the case that hes experiencing financial difficulty. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Hs complaint.  Everyday Lending Limited 
(trading as Everyday Loans) should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0025627