K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined their home  
insurance claim and voided  their policy due to non disclosure of previous subsidence.
background
Mr and Mrs W incepted  an AXA buildings and contents policy  via a broker to start on 24 
March 2018.
On 30 August 2018 Mr and Mrs W made a claim for subsidence damage.
AXA investigated the claim and determined that the property showed signs  of previous 
movement over several years. It also said there had been subsidence in the property which 
had stood on the site before and that the local church had been demolished in 2015 due to 
subsidence.
AXA took the decision to decline the claim and void the policy on the grounds that Mr and 
Mrs W had provided  inaccurate information on the statement of fact when they applied for 
the policy. It said its underwriters had concluded  that Mr and Mrs W had knowledge  of 
previous ground  movement in the area and that had this information been disclosed then the 
policy would not have been  offered.
Mr and Mrs W said that at the time of completing the proposal form they were not aware  of 
any subsidence issues affecting the property.  They also said the questions on the form were 
vaguely worded.  They  were  unhappy that the policy had been voided and complained to this 
service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He agreed with Mr and Mrs W that the questions 
about the property and area being free from signs of subsidence were vague  and didnt 
specify what was meant  by subsidence.  He said he wasnt persuaded that Mr and Mrs W 
had knowledge  of any subsidence  and said AXA had acted unreasonably in voiding the 
policy.
AXA didnt agree. It said Mr and Mrs W had stated that the property was free from damage 
or defect  of any kind but that its investigation  had revealed that the property showed signs of 
previous movement. It said that Mr Ws building company had constructed the property in 
1997 without carrying out an appropriate  ground condition investigation and that the property  
was sinking because  its foundations were  near the bottom of firm clay, below which  was 
poor ground  of little load bearing capacity.  AXA said that as a builder, Mr W would  have 
been aware of subsidence and ground movement because  this was an aspect of building  
regulations. It also said that Mr W had confirmed that the previous property on the site had 
suffered from subsidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer contract  (a policy). The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer.
Ref: DRN06182262If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain  remedies provided that the 
misrepresentation is a qualifying  misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms 
or not at all if the consumer hadnt  made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding  whether  the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers  questions were.  The 
remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate, or reckless or careless.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate, and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid  the policy, the insurer must show  it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation.
If the insurer is entitled to avoid  the policy, it means  it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying  misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer  hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim  and settle it proportionately  if it accepts it.
Ive thought about whether Mr and Mrs W took reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation. In doing so,  Ive looked  at the questions in the proposal. The relevant 
questions (and answers)  are as follows:
Is the property in a good state  of repair and free from damage or defect of any kind 
and will it be maintained  in a good state  of repair? Yes
Is your home free from any signs of subsidence and in an area free from 
subsidence? Yes
Has your home ever been repaired or monitored  in connection with subsidence, 
ground heave or landslip? No
AXA has said that Mr and Mrs W knew about previous subsidence but didnt declare it. It has 
given several reasons  for this including:
The property previously on the site was demolished due to subsidence issues
The neighbouring church was demolished  in 2015 due to subsidence  issues
Mr W is a builder and would  be aware  of subsidence/ground movement in the area
The property showed signs of previous movement  involving the single storey 
extensions and there was re-cracking to previous  repairs
Ive thought about how clear and specific the questions  were and whether the answers  given 
by Mr and Mrs W could be said to be inaccurate. In doing so, Ive had regard to the fact that 
a consumer is only obliged to provide answers  to the best of their ability.
Mr and Mrs W answered the first of the questions and said the property was free from 
damage or defects of any kind.  AXA has said that its investigation revealed that the property 
showed signs of previous  movement. Whilst Mr and Mrs W have acknowledged that there 
has been some movement in the past, theyve  said that they thought  this was due to 
settlement. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr and Mrs W to hold this opinion, because  
the movement  was limited  to the additional single storey extensions to the property. 
Ref: DRN06182263In relation to the question about the property and area being  free from subsidence, I agree 
with Mr and Mrs W that this question is vague. It doesnt define area  by reference to a 
geographical location, nor does it specify the timeframe by reference to which the question  
relates.
Ive taken into account what AXA has said about  the property which was previously on the 
same site. Ive also looked at the information AXA provided about the local church.  Theres  
no dispute that the previous property  was demolished. AXA has said this was due to 
subsidence but Mr W has said he understood it was because it didnt have suitable 
foundations. Given  that Mr and Mrs W didnt live in the previous property, I wouldnt expect 
them to have any particular knowledge of why it was demolished. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that the previous property was demolished  because  of subsidence 
issues, so I dont think its reasonable  for AXA to expect Mr and Mrs W to know  this.
Similarly, whilst its not in dispute that the local church was demolished,  Mr W has said that 
he believes  this was due to disrepair. The local authority report provided by AXA suggests  
that the church may have  been affected by subsidence, but Im not persuaded that Mr and 
Mrs W would  have been privy to that report.  AXA has said that an information board at the 
site of the church states that the reason for its demolition was subsidence but this isnt clear  
from the images of the board which have been  provided. The article from the ecclesiastical 
paper refers to local concern about  the demolition  of the church  but theres no evidence  that 
Mr and Mrs W read the article or that they would have been aware of any subsidence issues  
by virtue of living locally.  On balance, I dont think its reasonable to say that Mr and Mrs W 
deliberately, recklessly or carelessly misrepresented anything  when they answered the 
questions.
Ive considered whether Mr Ws occupation as a builder means  that he would  or ought to 
have been  aware of subsidence  affecting  the property or the area. AXA has said that 
Mr Ws construction firm built the property, and that an experienced builder  could reasonably 
have foreseen  that conventional strip footings  would be likely to be inadequate for the site 
unless a site investigation established that peat wasnt present beneath the site. But I dont 
think this point goes  to the issue of whether Mr and Mrs W provided  inaccurate information 
or made a misrepresentation when they completed the proposal, which is the reason for the 
policy being voided, as opposed to it being voided because  of defective design of the 
property. Further, if AXA wanted to advance an argument that the property was poorly 
constructed in the first place, Id expect it to substantiate this, by providing  (for instance), 
evidence of a failure  to comply with building regulations. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, Im not satisfied that there are grounds to suggest that 
Mr and Mrs W misrepresented  anything when  they completed the proposal.  Because  of this, 
I think AXA acted unfairly when it voided the policy and I think it should  honour the claim as if 
the policy hadnt been voided.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  AXA Insurance UK Plc should honour the 
claim as if the policy hadnt been voided.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest  and/or costs/interest  on costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000,  I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance. 
Ref: DRN06182264I think fair compensation  is more than £160,000 so I recommend that AXA Insurance  UK Plc 
pays Mr and Mrs W the balance. This recommendation is not part of my determination or 
award. AXA doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr and Mrs W can 
accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr and Mrs W may want to get 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 August 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0618226