K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy through a total mortgage protection  
policy (TMPP). To make things easier  Ill refer to the business as Bank of Scotland 
in the rest of the decision.
background
I issued my provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Ss complaint in August 2019.  Like our 
adjudicator, I said I was minded not to uphold their complaint.  But, as Id added to the 
reasons given by our adjudicator, I gave  Mr and Mrs S and Bank of Scotland a further 
opportunity to comment before I issued my final decision.
Neither Mr and Mrs S nor Bank of Scotland sent in any further representations.
about the PPI
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage through Bank of Scotland  in February  2006.  TMPP was 
added to their mortgage account. TMPP was a package of different types of insurance,  
including mortgage  repayment cover, which is a form of PPI. The PPI part of the policy 
covered them for accident, sickness and unemployment. Life cover  was also added, but not 
critical illness cover. The policy benefits  were  split 75:25 in favour  of Mr S. The PPI part of 
the policy cost them  £31.71 per month  and covered  their mortgage repayments  in full. Im 
just dealing with the PPI part of their policy here.
Bank of Scotland cant say exactly when the TMPP policy was sold to Mr and Mrs S. But, it 
said it was added following a meeting  at a specific branch. It has treated the policy as 
having been sold in January 2007, as thats the date shown in its computerised system 
records. 
Mr and Mrs S say they have never been  to this specific  branch, and that they didnt agree 
to take out PPI. They say if theyd wanted PPI, then it wouldve  been added from the outset.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
As neither Mr and Mrs S nor Bank of Scotland having sent in anything further for me to 
consider I see no reason  to depart from my provisional and for the reasons  set out in that 
decision. I will repeat  these again  here.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision 
on what I think is most  likely  to have happened   based on whats  available.
I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr and Mrs S took out their mortgage. I 
dont know if PPI was discussed. Mr and Mrs S said they didnt agree to take it out. Bank  
Ref: DRN08444992of Scotland has proceeded  on the basis that the PPI was added  some time after they took 
out their mortgage,  so Mr and Mrs S might be right about PPI not being discussed at the 
same time as they took out their mortgage.
Bank of Scotland no longer has Mr and Mrs Ss paperwork from the time of sale. Banks  
often only keep records for six years. This sale happened  well over 10 years ago. Bank  of 
Scotland cant say exactly when  PPI was added. Theyve used the start date referred to in 
their system records. But from what we know from dealing with other  Bank of Scotland  
cases, this doesnt always  correspond with the actual date of sale.  So, I havent placed 
much reliance on the policy having actually been  sold in January 2007.  Instead I have 
looked at Mr and Mrs Ss particular circumstances between 2006 (when they took out their 
mortgage) and January 2007  (when the system shows that they have PPI) to assess if the 
policy appeared suitable for them during this date range.
Mr and Mrs S also said theyd never  visited the branch where Bank of Scotland says this 
PPI was sold. I cant know if thats right or not, or if there is perhaps some  other  
reasonable explanation  for why the sale may have been attributed to a branch  that Mr and 
Mrs S didnt visit. I can understand why these things raise  questions for Mr and Mrs S. 
However, I place more reliance on the fact that Bank  of Scotlands records are clear  about 
the type of cover that was added. The cover was split 75:25 in Mr Ss favour and PPI and 
life cover were selected, critical  illness cover  was not. This suggests  to me that more likely 
than not there was a discussion about  PPI and Mr and Mrs S took out the cover that best 
suited their needs at the time.  If the PPI was added after the mortgage was taken  out  this 
would also suggest  that they wouldve understood that PPI was an optional  insurance and 
they didnt have to take it to get the mortgage.
In order  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, Id have to find that its more likely that they 
werent given a fair choice about  PPI or that it was added  to their mortgage account  
without their consent. Based on the limited  information Ive got, and what we know about  
Bank of Scotlands sales processes around that time, I cant  fairly reach that conclusion.
I think Bank of Scotland probably recommended  this policy to Mr and Mrs S. So, in those 
circumstances, Bank  of Scotland had to make sure the policy  was suitable for them, as 
well as giving them information  that was clear, fair and not misleading so that they could 
make an informed choice  about whether the policy was right for them and they wanted  to 
buy it.
It doesnt look like PPI was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs S based on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances during the period when  the policy was likely  to have been sold. I say this 
because:
 they both appeared eligible to take out the cover.
 they both said they wouldve got some benefits  through  their work if they were 
off work sick. PPI wouldve paid out on top of these benefits and possibly for 
longer. It wouldve allowed them to use their work benefits to meet  other 
household expenditure at what might be a difficult time for them financially if 
one or both of them wasnt  working. So, TMPP gave them  long term protection 
for their mortgage, protecting their home.  
They said they had a modest amount of savings (up to 3 months worth of pay).  I 
cant see that these  other resources made this policy  unsuitable for them.
Ref: DRN08444993 there were some things the policy didnt cover. I cant see that either of them 
was affected  by these. So, I dont  think having more information about  things 
the policy didnt  cover wouldve affected their decision to take out the policy.
 Mr and Mrs S paid a monthly  premium  for TMPP. They  didnt have to pay 
interest on the premium  and couldve stopped  the policy at any time without 
losing out financially.  I cant see that it was unaffordable.
 Its possible  they couldve been  given  clear information about the costs and 
benefits of the policy.  But, I dont think having clearer information wouldve 
changed their decision as the TMPP seemed affordable, and it appeared
suitable for their needs.
Overall, I think the TMPP policy couldve provided them with useful protection  to 
safeguard their home.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs S have said,  but this hasnt changed  my 
view. Its possible there may have been  some shortcomings in the way this policy was 
sold. But, I think  Mr and Mrs S still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if they had 
been better advised and informed as the policy gave them  useful protection  in their 
circumstances. I currently  cant see that theyve lost out because of anything  that Bank of 
Scotland may have done wrong. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 November  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0844499