K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that National Westminster Bank  Plc didnt tell them  that further 
borrowing on their mortgage wouldnt be allowed  in the first seven years.  They say they 
wouldnt have bought the house had they known.
 
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a Help to Buy mortgage  guarantee scheme (HTB) mortgage with 
NatWest through  a mortgage broker. The mortgage completed on 12 November 2014.
On 28 January 2015 NatWest wrote to Mr and Mrs W saying that unfortunately the mortgage  
offer hadnt  contained all the information that should have been included. It went  on to 
explain a clause stating  that under the HTB scheme  no further funds could  be advanced 
within the first seven years had been  missed off.
Mr and Mrs W complained to both the broker and NatWest in 2018.  They  said they always  
intended to take a further advance as they knew there was a lot of work they wanted to do to 
the property. They  say they intended to fund the initial work using money  they had left over 
from the sale of their previous property and then,  once  the property had increased in value, 
take a further  advance  to fund the rest. They say they were instead  forced  to fund the work  
using expensive credit  cards and loans, which  has left them in a difficult  position and 
affected their mental health.
NatWest said the broker  should have explained the HTB scheme to Mr and Mrs W, and the 
seven year exclusion period was a government rule, not NatWests. It said it should  however 
have mentioned the exclusion  in the mortgage  offer, which is why it wrote to Mr and Mrs W 
in January 2015 to explain the clause and to apologise for the oversight.
Our adjudicator recommended  NatWest pay £200  for the oversight,  but other than that didnt  
think NatWest had done anything wrong. She said there was never any guarantee a further 
advance would have  been agreed  even if there  was no exclusion in place,  as it would always  
have been subject to an application  being accepted by NatWest.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed.  They said they wouldnt have bought the house  if theyd known 
there was no option to take a further advance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The seven year exclusion period wasnt part of NatWest lending policies  it was part of the 
governments HTB scheme. The government said if consumers borrow  more money in the 
early years of a HTB mortgage  under the mortgage,  it wouldnt honour its guarantee to the 
lender if the mortgage isnt paid in full. Mr and Mrs W had a relationship with two bodies  
when they took out the HTB mortgage  one with NatWest to get the mortgage monies and 
one with the HTB provider which set up Mr and Mrs Ws access  to the HTB scheme,  the 
underlying loan provided by the government, and the government  guarantee.  NatWest  isnt 
responsible for the actions of the HTB provider or the rules  of the scheme   it was for the 
HTB provider to tell Mr and Mrs W about  the exclusion period.  NatWest was expected to 
Ref: DRN01701202comply with the rules  of the scheme  if it wanted to rely on the government guarantee, not to 
advise on the HTB scheme itself.  
NatWest has admitted it put the wrong condition on the mortgage offer. It put You  can apply 
for Extra Borrowing at any time rather than the HTB exclusion that no additional  borrowing  
would be allowed for seven years. Whilst Ive had regard to Mr and Mrs Ws statement that 
they wouldnt have  bought  they house  had they known Im not persuaded by that. I say this 
because the information in question  was on the mortgage offer, and by the time that was 
produced Mr and Mrs W were a long way into the property buying  process  so its unlikely 
they relied on that to decide  to buy the property.
In any event, even  if there wasnt an exclusion,  any application for further borrowing would 
be subject to underwriting. Mr and Mrs W had borrowed 95% of the property value  to fund 
the purchase, so would be reliant  on the property increasing in value before there was any 
equity available  for them to borrow against. And even if that happened, Mr and Mrs W would 
still have to have  an application assessed  for credit  worthiness and affordability.
Consumers dont have  a right to borrow  more  money; the mortgage offer Mr and Mrs W 
accepted didnt promise further borrowing would be guaranteed, just that it could be applied  
for. NatWest wasnt being unfair or unreasonable in wishing to keep the benefit of the 
guarantee and refusing to lend more money.  Mr and Mrs W might not have paid the 
mortgage in full and property prices  might have fallen; thats why there was a government 
guarantee.
As part of this complaint Ive also considered the information provided on the linked  
complaint against  the broker. On that weve been  given a copy  of the key facts illustration 
produced by the broker. The illustration  clearly states the HTB scheme exclusion clause 
You will not be able to apply for additional  secured  borrowing until the expiry of 7 years from 
the date of completion of the Help to Buy mortgage guarantee scheme loan.
Whilst Mr and Mrs W now dont  recall seeing that illustration on balance I think  thats 
unlikely, as Im not persuaded they would have agreed to go ahead  with the mortgage 
without knowing what it was going to cost. They chose to go ahead  with the mortgage 
application after theyd  been sent that illustration, so whilst  the equivalent warning was 
missing from the mortgage  offer Im not persuaded they would have taken a different course 
of action had it been included.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied NatWest made a mistake in not noting  the HTB 
scheme exclusion on the mortgage  offer and I agree  that a payment of £200  is fair for that. 
Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs W would  have chosen to not proceed  with the purchase if that 
information had been noted  on the mortgage offer, nor am I persuaded NatWest  led them to 
believe any future application for further borrowing would be guaranteed.
Finally, Mr and Mrs W have said NatWest should have told them  when the exclusion was 
lifted due to the government scheme  being withdrawn. Whilst Ive had regard for that 
argument, put simply, thats not something NatWest  was required to do.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint   in part and order National Westminster  Bank  Plc to pay £200  to 
Mr and Mrs W. I make no other  order or award.
Ref: DRN01701203Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 July 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0170120