K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  that Barclays  Bank UK PLC didnt transfer the cash value of dividends 
from shares he held in an equity ISA to his new ISA manager in a timely manner. Barclays 
waited until all dividends had been paid into his account before transferring them to his new 
ISA as one cash  payment. 
He says around £8,500 in dividend payments sat idle in his Barclays  ISA since  early October 
2017 while Barclays waited for a dividend  payment  from shares in one company to be paid 
into his ISA account on 16 November 2017,  before  all dividends were  transferred to his new 
ISA on 27 November 2017. 
Mr L has requested compensation for the delays in earlier dividends being transferred  to his 
new ISA, the time taken  to process  the final dividend payment and Barclays failure to 
respond to his queries about  system failures and timescales.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2018, in which I felt that 
Barclays ought to have exercised some discretion to transfer the cash  value of five dividends  
received by his ISA between 5 and 19 October 2017  to his new ISA manager in a timely 
manner, i.e. within two weeks  of the fifth dividend being received.
I invited both Mr L and Barclays to respond with comments  to my provisional findings, a copy  
of which  is attached and forms part of this final decision.
developments
In response, Mr L agreed with my provisional  decision  and had no further comments to 
make.
Barclays replied to say that it didnt  altogether  agree with my provisional finding because  it 
was confused by my understanding  of the process  and methodology used to calculate 
redress. 
It was agreed that, under  the existing ISA platform, the main transfer was carried  out in 
specie and that Barclays has a 90 day sweep of all future residual dividend and other 
receipts into Mr Ls account. But I then refer to the guide to the new platform where  it states 
that cash transfers can take up to two weeks. However, this is an in specie transfer which  
can take up to 12 weeks in periods of high demand. So these timescales  are set for two 
entirely different  types of transfer. An in specie transfer is a transfer  of the assets while they 
remain invested, they are never out of the market so any price movement is not affected. 
On the other hand, a cash only transfer would only occur if Mr Ls account only held cash  
from the outset. So, its not clear  why a different timescale of two weeks should apply.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN06760262I accept that the main  ISA transfer to Mr Ls new ISA manager was carried  out in specie from 
the old platform. The terms and conditions of this platform does state that, in periods of high 
demand, transfers can take up to 12 weeks. Hence,  the 90 day sweep-up process for all 
residual dividend and other cash receipts. And I accept that Mr L hadnt  agreed to switch  his 
account to the new platform  and couldnt  expect the service  standards it offered.
But Mr L had been consistently led to believe by Barclays that the delay in transferring these  
remaining funds was unacceptable. Hence,  the offer of compensation for his trouble and 
upset.   
Accordingly, I think its fair and reasonable for Barclays  to have exercised some discretion to 
transfer in a timely manner the residual  dividends valued at £8,522 that had been  received in 
his account between 5 and 19 October  2017 and for these significant funds not to lie idle in 
his account for more  than two weeks, i.e. beyond  2 November 2017, even though this 
service standard  is offered by the new platform to which he hadnt  switched.
Barclays has confirmed that compensation of £350  for the trouble and upset Mr L has been 
caused was paid to him in February 2018.  If so, there  is no further redress  payable  to him   
decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint.
I require Barclays Bank  Plc to establish from Mr Ls current ISA manager the number of 
additional units, if any, the cash dividends of £8,522 would have bought  in his new ISA if 
they had been transferred on 2 November 2017, and not on 27 November 2017.
Barclays Bank Plc should pay Mr Ls ISA manager an amount that will purchase these 
additional units at the current offer price and increase the current value of his ISA 
accordingly. 
Otherwise, if the dividend would not have bought more units on 2 November 2017 than they 
did on 27 November 2017,  no redress is due. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN06760263COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr L has complained  that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt transfer the cash value of dividends  from 
shares he held in an equity  ISA to his new ISA manager in a timely manner. Barclays waited until all 
dividends had been paid into his account before  transferring them to his new ISA as one cash  
payment. 
He says around £8,500 in dividend payments sat idle in his Barclays ISA since early October 2017 
while Barclays  waited for a dividend payment from shares in one company  to be paid into his ISA 
account on 16 November  2017, before all dividends were transferred to his new ISA on 27 November 
2017. 
Mr L has requested compensation for the delays in earlier  dividends being transferred  to his new ISA, 
the time taken  to process the final dividend  payment and Barclays failure to respond  to his queries 
about system failures and timescales.
     
background
On 20 September 2017, Mr L requested to transfer  in specie the value of an equity ISA he held with 
Barclays to another ISA manager. This transfer was completed on 29 September 2017 and residual 
cash held on the account  was transferred to the new ISA manager on 
4 October.
Thereafter, five legacy dividends  were paid into Mr Ls Barclays  ISA between  5 October  and 19 
October 2017, amounting  to £8,522. But these  dividends remained in the ISA until Barclays received  
a final dividend payment, which it paid into his ISA on 16 November. All six dividends, amounting to 
£11,590, were  then transferred to his new ISA manager on 
27 November 2017.             
In response to Mr Ls complaint, Barclays said that all dividends were  paid into his ISA within 10 
working days of receipt and, therefore,  complied with regulatory guidance for allocation of client 
money. Dividend  payments are received from the companies in bulk, and the amount needs to be 
verified and payments correctly allocated to each shareholders account.
Once the main  transfer was completed on 29 September 2017, his ISA with Barclays remained open 
to collect  legacy dividend, and other, payments. Barclays internal  procedure is to sweep-up  these 
residual payments within 90 days of the first payment being received before  transferring them as one 
cash sum to the new ISA manager. As such, it argues that the transfer of all dividends to the new ISA 
manager was made within its service standards. Having  said that, Barclays did appreciate why Mr L 
would consider that some  dividends were a long time being transferred.   
The last dividend that was known  to be due within this 90 day period  had been expected on 13 
October 2017. But payment from the company of this dividend was delayed  due to a processing issue 
at the companys bank. Once this problem  was resolved,  dividends were paid on 1 November  2017.
Then, as dividends from these shares were denominated in US dollars, they were  converted  to 
pounds sterling before  being  paid into Mr Ls ISA on 16 November and transferred, together with all 
the other dividends, to his new ISA on 27 November 2017. 
In recognition of the lack of communication from Barclays,  and the repeated telephone calls Mr L 
made, over the time taken to transfer his share dividends,  and the lack of a response to a letter he 
addressed to its Chief Executive, Barclays offered him £350 for shortcomings  in the level of service 
hed received.
   
Ref: DRN06760264But Barclays  maintained that it completed the transfer of the whole  of Mr Ls portfolio within  the 
timescale it prescribes of 12 weeks and wasnt inclined  to compensate him for the time taken for 
these dividends to be transferred in cash to his new ISA.
One of our adjudicators  investigated the complaint and thought the offer of £350 for the poor level of 
service Mr L received from Barclays during this transfer process was appropriate  given these 
dividends did remain invested in his ISA.
Mr L disagreed  with her assessment and said that:
her findings werent accurate; neither did they fully respond  to the point that, while the shares  
in his ISA account were  transferred in specie , and remained  invested, the dividends that 
accrued in his ISA, and should have  been  made available to him to invest, were held back by 
Barclays so he couldnt use them to make further investments;
the sums involved  were significant - by 19 October 2017, dividends  in the account  amounted 
to £8,522  and, by 26 October, to £11,616. He wasnt able to access  these dividends for 
reinvestment until 27 November and Barclays  didnt offer an explanation for the delay in 
transferring these dividends individually;
in fact, Barclays apologised for the delay,  promised it would be resolved immediately and it 
wasnt;
these  delays were  not down to him as he contacted Barclays several times to check why 
there was a delay in making the payment to him - six weeks for the initial tranche of dividends 
worth £8,500 and over four weeks for the final total of £11,616;
in the meantime, these dividends didnt  remain  invested while they were  in his ISA;
it would have  been  reasonable for Barclays to transfer the sum of £8,522 since 
19 October 2017;
the final dividend  Mr L received came from shares he also held with another ISA manager, 
dividends from which were  paid into his account with this manager on 27 October  2017. If 
Barclays had acted  with similar promptness, he would not have complained.
The adjudicator wasnt inclined to change her view and passed on Barclays  comments  to 
Mr L that the 90-day procedure was implemented to cope with the high volume  of transfers they were 
dealing with at the time. It transferred any dividends  or other cash  transactions  that came into the 
account within  90 days of the main transfer being completed. Barclays did appreciate that this may be 
much longer than clients expect. But it would never intentionally hold on to client money. 
As agreement  cant be reached in this complaint, it has been referred  tome  for review.
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
When Barclays decided in August 2017 to changed  its investor platform, it anticipated  that a higher 
than usual number  of investors would  request to transfer to a new trading manager around that time.  
That Barclays  did experience an increase in transfer requests doesnt make it unreasonable for it to 
take longer to process transfer requests due to that increased demand.  
But I dont think HMRCs guidance that suggest ISA transfer should take up to 30 working  days to 
complete, Barclays  prescribed transfer times of four-to-six weeks, and up to 12 weeks in periods of 
high demand, or its procedure of sweeping-up  dividend payments over 90 days, excuse it from any 
undue delays in the process even if those transactions are completed within  these timescales.
Mr L doesnt have an issue with the transfer  of his ISA in specie, which took two weeks to complete 
since he requested the transfer on 20 September 2017. His complaint  refers to the timing  of the 
transfer of subsequent dividend payments to the new ISA manager.  
Ref: DRN06760265The guide to the new trading  platform  does  explain that it may need to keep your account(s) open if 
youre due to receive any dividends or distributions. Well  wait until these  are processed and then fully 
close your account(s) with us. 
Once the initial transfer  of stock and cash was completed,  its administration team monitored  the 
account and made these  transfers  during a 90-day sweep-up period. All dividends paid on shares 
held by Mr L within his ISA were received as cash and transferred as cash. Notwithstanding the 90-
day sweep-up period, under the guide to the new trading  platform, a typical timescale for a cash 
transfer would be one-to-two  weeks.
As Barclays will have monitored  Mr Ls account,  it would have noted  that he was due dividend 
payments from shareholdings in six companies. He was notified  on 5 October  2017 that the transfer 
of stock and residual cash had been made to his new ISA manager by 
4 October 2017. 
Four dividend payments, amounting to £5,598, were then received in his ISA between  
5 October and 9 October  2017. A fifth dividend payment, due to be paid on 13 October 2017,  was 
delayed due to a problem  with the companys bank. In the meantime, his ISA with Barclays received 
another dividend payment  of £2,924 on 19 October.  
The processing  issue  with the delayed dividend  was resolved on 25 October  and payment was 
expected to be posted  to shareholders that day. Barclays confirmed that it received this payment  as a 
foreign cheque on 31 October, which, it says, can typically take up to six weeks to clear. In the event, 
a payment in pounds sterling of £3,095 was made to his ISA on 16 November 2017  and this dividend, 
plus the five other dividends, amounting  to £11,590  in total (after charges), were  transferred to his 
new ISA manager on 27 November 2017.
I appreciate that Barclays leaves investors accounts open to accept  dividend  payments once stock 
has been transferred and why it would want to sweep-up all known  dividends as one transfer 
payment in periods of high demand.
But, given Barclays says it monitors investors accounts, it ought to have known the timetables for 
payment of dividends from shares  held in Mr Ls ISA. When the final scheduled dividend was paid to 
his account on 19 October 2017, it knew there would be a delay in his account  receiving the dividend 
payment that had been due on 13 October.  But it didnt know at the time when this problem would  be 
resolved. Also, the delayed dividend payment  was denominated in US dollars  which Barclays has 
said could take up to six weeks  to pay into his account in pounds sterling. 
So, I think its fair and reasonable for Barclays, in these circumstances, to have exercised some 
discretion to transfer the cash value  of dividends  of £8,522 that had already  been received in his 
account by 19 October 2017. This was a substantial sum to be sat in his account earning no return  for 
almost six weeks. In accordance with the guide to its new platform, this transfer this could have been 
completed within two weeks; i.e. by 2 November 2017.
 
On the other hand, its not surprising to find that the delayed dividend wasnt paid into Mr Ls account  
in pounds sterling  until 16 November  2017, given  it was received on 31 October as a foreign cheque. 
As this was then transferred to his new ISA manager within two weeks, on balance,  Im satisfied that 
the timescale for this transfer to complete was acceptable.
It does seem that, throughout his dealings with Barclays between  November 2017 and April 2018,  it 
didnt inform  him of its procedure of sweeping-up dividend payments. On the contrary, he seems to 
have been told that he shouldnt have been expected to tolerate  the delay  in transferring the dividend 
payments following his in specie transfer. Given  also the lack of communication  throughout this 
period, including  no response to a letter  he addressed to Barclays chief executive, Im satisfied that 
the offer made  by Barclays of £350 for the trouble  and upset this matter alone  has caused him 
seems fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN06760266provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint.
I require  Barclays  Bank Plc to establish from Mr Ls current ISA manager the number of additional 
units, if any, the cash dividends  of £8,522 would  have bought in his new ISA if they had been 
transferred on 2 November 2017, and not on 27 November  2017.
Barclays Bank Plc should pay Mr Ls ISA manager an amount that will purchase these additional  units  
at the current offer price  and increase the current value of his ISA accordingly. 
Otherwise, if the dividend would not have bought more units on 2 November 2017 than they did on 27 
November 2017, no redress is due. 
 
Notwithstanding this, Barclays Bank Plc should pay Mr L £350 for the trouble and upset he has been 
caused in this matter.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0676026