K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that a representative  of The Royal London Mutual  Insurance  Society  Limited 
gave him false and misleading  information about  the likely returns  on four savings 
endowment policies being recommended in 1997.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 27 July 2019. A copy of this is attached and its reasoning forms part of this 
decision.
Mr G disagreed with my provisional  decision, and said:
The advisors prime motivation was to secure a sale. The fact that the handwritten 
note showed significantly higher  returns than the official  paperwork is telling, and 
heavily influenced  his decision to take out the policies
While  I said I couldnt be sure when  the note was written or how it was presented, he 
can confirm that the advisor gave him the note at the single face-to-face meeting 
which took place  in his home. Further, he showed the note to his future wife 
immediately afterwards as he was excited by the expected returns
His main priority at the time was to purchase  a low cost life assurance policy (to 
provide for his parents  in the event  of his death)  and save/invest  to build up sufficient 
money for a house purchase
Therefore it would be reasonable to base  compensation on some  combination  of 
these two elements  including taking  account of house price inflation
Contrary to the investigators claims he did not receive regular statements showing 
the investment  value  of the policies  after the first two years  and Royal  London has 
not been able to demonstrate it sent such documents
Instead, annual  bonus statements (from 2000 to 2005)  initially  showed very attractive 
future values although  the 2005  indicated a lower  figure; Royal London did not send 
any more after this date.  So he was given regular reassurance about  the likely future 
value of these  policies in the early days and had no reason  to doubt what  hed been  
told
Royal Londons investment strategy and significant asset split has significantly 
reduced the bonus payments but the penalties  for withdrawing from these  policies 
are such  that he was repeatedly advised  not to surrender them
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
For the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision I remain of the view that this complaint 
cannot, on balance,  be upheld. I have considered all of Mr Gs recent  points and I fully 
acknowledge why he feels  so strongly  about  the handwritten note. 
As I said in my provisional decision it seems more likely than not that it was written by the 
advisor and, on the face of it, offered misleading figures about potential  returns.  So I am not 
disputing that the advisor  may well have written  this note and given this note to Mr G at the 
meeting in question. But I still cannot be certain about what was said i.e. whether these were 
offered as possible,  likely  or guaranteed returns. So evidence from Mr Gs wife  about  his 
Ref: DRN02374392understanding of what  had been  said - would not constitute proof  as to what had been 
discussed.
Nor do I feel able to safely say  despite Mr Gs evidence  that this was the sole or 
overwhelming reason he chose to go ahead  with the policies i.e. he would not have taken 
them out if hed known these returns were not guaranteed. Partly this is because no other  
provider could have  offered a guarantee of future investment returns. As Mr G was looking 
for a low cost life endowment policy with some savings potential  it is not obvious  that there 
would have been an alternative product guaranteeing better returns.
While Mr G is understandably  disappointed  with Royal  Londons investment track  record  
there is no evidence  it has behaved inappropriately so it is not for me to say whether it could 
or might have delivered better returns via a different strategy.
I also dont accept that Mr G would necessarily have tried to purchase a property  instead  if 
hed been aware that no returns could have been  guaranteed. There  are a myriad of reasons 
why people choose to purchase  a property (and when), assuming they are in a position to do 
so. As such, I think it would be manifestly unfair and unreasonable to come  to the conclusion 
that Mr G would have  bought a property instead,  let alone try and assess  how much such an 
asset might  now be worth.
Overall, I still do not believe there  is sufficient  evidence  to uphold this complaint and, 
crucially, instruct Royal London to pay compensation. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Gs complaint or make any financial award. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject  my decision 
before 10 October  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02374393provisional decision
complaint
Mr G complains that a representative of The Royal London Mutual Insurance  Society Limited gave 
him false and misleading information about the likely  returns  on four savings endowment policies 
being recommended in 1997.
background
Royal London  said Mr G had complained about the first policy when it matured in 2007.  It had issued 
a final response letter rejecting his complaint and explaining he had six months to refer his complaint 
to this service. As he had not done so this part of his complaint was out of jurisdiction, having  been 
referred too late under  the time rules.
It also said that Mr Gs second  policy had matured in 2012, and the return  had not matched the 
forecasts on which he said he had relied  and expected. As he had not complained within  three 
years of this date, it said this element  of his complaint was also out of jurisdiction under the time rules. 
It considered the rest of his complaint about the other two recommended policies,  one of which had 
just matured and one which had yet to mature, but rejected it.
It said that the illustrations  showed that he had not been guaranteed any specific return  as 
performance was dependent on future investment growth.
An investigator at this service agreed with Royal London both about the first two policies  being out of 
jurisdiction and that there was not sufficient evidence to uphold a complaint against  the other two.
Mr G did not agree, and said he had recently come  across  a handwritten note from the original 
advisor which proved  that he had promised  specific returns for each policy, in fact far higher  amounts 
in the standard illustrations.  He therefore felt his complaint about  all four policies should be 
considered, and upheld, with Royal London required to pay out what its advisor had promised.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive firstly considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide if this is a complaint  we can 
consider  and if so which aspects of it.
I fully understand  Royal Londons position about the first two policies. Mr G was clearly disappointed  
with the return on the first policy and complained about  this. He did not then bring his complaint to this 
service, missing the clearly  signposted six month deadline. He was also most likely  to have been 
disappointed by the returns on the second policy,  feeling  the advisor had promised  a much higher 
pay-out. However, he did not complain  about this policy  within three years of its maturity.
That said, I acknowledge Mr Gs argument  that as Royal  London had told him that without further 
evidence it wasnt going to uphold his complaint he felt it wasnt worth pursuing things  further at that 
stage. Also, even if he had done so, and this service had not upheld his complaint (on the basis that 
there wasnt enough evidence to conclude  the advisor had mislead him) he could have brought  a new 
complaint if and when he found significant new evidence.
On balance I accept that the handwritten note hes recently discovered  does constitute relevant new 
evidence and therefore believe we are entitled to consider Mr Gs complaint  about all four policies.
Ive therefore consider whats fair and reasonable when assessing the merits of his complaint.
In this context my role is to decide whether there is sufficient, persuasive  evidence to safely  say that a 
business did something wrong, such as mislead  a client about the likely  returns. If I do decide there is 
sufficient evidence  then I need to consider what the customer would most  likely have done if this 
Ref: DRN02374394hadnt happened and, in theory,  assess  how best to put them back in the position they would  have 
been if given full and fair information at the time.
Ive explained this because  while I understand why Mr G feels Royal  London should pay the amounts 
he says the advisor promised him, this is not something that would be in my power or remit  to do. Mr 
G is only entitled to the actual value of his policies,  which  have  been determined  by the returns/growth 
resulting from his regular payments and the bonuses that thereby accrued. 
I am satisfied  that the official documentation given  to Mr G made  clear, or would  have made  clear, 
that future bonuses were  not guaranteed  and so his only guarantee was the minimum sum assured. 
The limited paperwork  provided by Royal London supports this conclusion. So he was never entitled 
to more than Royal London  had paid out.
That said, I dont doubt that the advisor may have  suggested the plans  were likely to deliver healthy 
returns, and probably based on attractive past figures, but he could not guarantee any specific returns 
and should not have done so. 
In this context I do find the handwritten note troubling as it refers to specific figures and appears to 
have been written by the advisor. But I dont  believe this note in itself is sufficient  to safely  conclude  
Mr G was definitely  misled  by the advisor. I have no idea of the context in which this note was written 
or discussed including what caveats the advisor gave about  the figures themselves.  I also cannot  be 
sure when it was written and how Mr G ended up with it.
Also, the surrounding paperwork clearly  made no such  claims and made  clear  that only the minimum 
sum assured  was guaranteed. 
Further, even if I felt Mr G was definitely misled into taking out these  policies under false pretences, it 
is not obvious what the appropriate compensation  if any  should be. In other words, if Mr G had 
known that there were no guarantees as to the ultimate pay-outs, what would he have done instead?
The return on all investment policies, including  low risk ones like these  with-profits plans, depend on 
future, unknowable, economic growth (the stock market etc.) So no alternative provider could have 
offered a fundamentally different, growth-guaranteeing  product.
Presented with such  clear  and unambiguous  information Mr G may have chosen to simply put his 
monthly sums  in a deposit account where interest was guaranteed. However, Royal London has 
undertaken such a calculation  and says these policies  have delivered  a better return  than this safety-
first approach. I have  no reason to doubt its figures. So I have seen no persuasive evidence  to 
indicate Mr G has lost out as a result of this issue,  and could not estimate what  such  a loss might be 
even if there was evidence to indicate he might  have done something different.
my provisional  decision
I currently do not intend  to uphold Mr Gs complaint or make any financial award.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0237439