K822xcomplaint
B, a registered society, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed  to communicate with its 
trustees and wrongly  closed its bank account.  B is represented by one of its trustees, who Ill 
call Mr B. Mr B asks that HSBC accepts its shortcomings and pays  compensation for time, 
disruption and damage to Bs reputation. 
background 
HSBC wrote to B in late 2017 asking for information  as part of its safeguard review, which  is 
intended to protect  customers  from fraud and financial crime. Mr B says the information was 
sent to HSBC. Despite  this, HSBC put restrictions on Bs account in May 2018. 
Mr B says HSBC told them on numerous  occasions  it had the information  it needed  and then 
wrote to them asking  for more. He says it failed to return phone  calls when it said it would. 
Mr B says while Bs account was inhibited they had to find ways  to pay staff and other 
outgoings. Bs reputation was put at risk. Mr B estimates the cost of staff and trustees time 
spent on the matter at about £1,000. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She said 
theres no evidence  that HSBC  received  the documents posted by Bs trustees. 
while HSBC sent reminders to B, it could have  been clearer  about  what information  it 
was missing when Bs trustees  contacted it. 
HSBC re-activated  Bs account once it received the information it needed. But Bs 
trustees and staff werent able to use the account  for 11 days   which caused  disruption. 
Our adjudicator said HSBC should pay £200  compensation for the inconvenience. She said 
the trustees  hadnt  shown financial loss. And she couldnt award compensation for third 
parties upset or embarrassment. Bs trustees didnt agree, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
HSBC asked Bs trustees for a copy of Bs constitution. It asked that this was provided by 
9 January 2018. The trustees were unable  to email the document to HSBC. So they sent a 
copy by post on 8 February 2018.  HSBC says it didnt receive the document. 
HSBC sent reminders  to Bs trustees. It said Bs account would close  if it didnt receive  the 
missing information. Mr B says they didnt know what information  was needed. He says they 
called HSBC but it didnt return calls (despite saying it would)  to explain what  was needed.  
Ref: DRN09436952In early May 2018  Bs account was restricted.  A member of Bs staff contacted HSBC and it 
explained what information was needed.  B provided the information and the account 
restrictions were  lifted.
I think matters  would likely have been resolved sooner (possibly without the account being 
restricted) if HSBC had returned the trustees  calls and explained what  information was 
needed. The trustees say they didnt know HSBC hadnt received Bs constitution. Its not 
clear to me, based  on the information  provided, that HSBC told the trustees before May 
2018 that it also wanted copies of Bs accounts  and minutes. 
I can see that being unable to pay staff and other outgoings could damage Bs reputation. 
Mr B says staff asked whether theyd be paid  and the trustees  had to make plans to 
ensure they were. But while  I understand the trustees concerns they havent  provided 
evidence that Bs reputation was damaged or what effect this had on B. Without this, I dont 
think I can make an assessment about what compensation, if any, would be fair.
I dont doubt that the trustees  and Bs administrator spent time on this matter.  But the 
trustees give their time for free. And from what Mr B has said the administrator dealt with the 
matter within  her usual working hours. I havent seen evidence there was an actual cost to B. 
I appreciate that this matter has caused inconvenience to Bs trustees  and staff.  Some of the 
inconvenience  such as getting in contact with HSBC and providing the information  was a 
necessary part of the review process. And the review  might have progressed more  quickly  if 
the trustees  had provided Bs constitution  more  promptly when first asked. 
However, I think contacting HSBC  on several  occasions without a substantive response 
caused unnecessary  inconvenience. Not having access to Bs bank account for about two 
weeks was also inconvenient.  I think B should  be compensated for this. Its difficult  to find an 
amount thats  fair to both parties and meets the trustees expectations. HSBC agreed to pay 
compensation of £200. I think,  in the circumstances, this is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay £200  to B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the trustees of B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0943695