K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a deposit  he paid for a car hasnt been refunded to him by 
Close Brothers Limited.
background
Mr M was interested in buying a car from a third party dealership  in August 2018. On 
19 August 2018  Mr M paid a £200 reservation deposit and completed a finance application 
proposal. It appears that Mr Ms application  for finance was successful and this was put in 
place for Mr M to collect  the car the following weekend.  On 21 August 2018  Mr M emailed 
the dealership  to explain that his personal circumstances had changed and he no longer 
wanted to proceed  with his purchase of the car.
The dealership agreed to unwind the finance agreement and return the money to the finance 
company Close  Brothers but it didnt agree to refund the reservation deposit  made  by Mr M. 
Mr M complained to Close Brothers  and it also refused to refund  the £200  on the basis  that 
these were fees contained  within  the terms of the signed agreement.
Mr M was unhappy with this response  and brought his complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator considered Mr Ms complaint  and didnt recommend it was upheld. He thought  
that the order form Mr M signed  on the 19 August 2018 made  it clear  that his deposit would 
not be refunded  if he decided  not to go ahead.
Mr M didnt  agree and replied to say in summary  that he paid a reservation deposit, he did 
not apply for the finance in full and he was misled.  He said the car needed new tires and the 
dealership fraudulently entered  him into the finance  transaction. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I would like to say that I understand  completely why Mr M is upset that he was 
not refunded his £200. I can only look at the transaction with Close Brothers Finance and I 
cant direct  the dealership  to do anything.
On 19 August 2018 Mr M signed a vehicle  order form and completed a proposal for finance. 
In order for Mr M to be able to collect the car as agreed the following weekend,  the finance 
would need to be in place  and the money  released to the dealership. I appreciate  that Mr M 
says that he didnt proceed  with the finance. But the finance agreement was unwound and 
the money was returned to Close Brothers  in full so I cant say that there is anything else 
that Close Brothers need to do. 
The real issue is that the dealership refused to refund Mr Ms deposit.  Although  Mr M is 
complaining about the tyres,  he didnt  reject the car because it was faulty. If he had done,  
then the outcome with regard to the deposit  may well have been different. Mr M chose not to 
proceed with the purchase because of a change in his personal circumstances. 
 
Looking at the order form that Mr M signed  I can see that he agreed to be bound by the 
terms and conditions. The order form specifically states at point 6 that if Mr M didnt take 
Ref: DRN02736752delivery of the car then the deposit would be forfeited and therefore not refundable. I can 
appreciate what Mr M is saying about  the short time between  agreeing  to purchase the car 
and then withdrawing and I do understand his point that he doesnt think  there  has been any 
inconvenience to justify the dealership keeping his £200.
But in these circumstances  I cant ask Close Bothers to refund the £200 because  it was 
retained by the dealership as part of its terms and conditions  that were  signed by Mr M.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 12 July 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0273675