K820x#14Complaint
Ms R, who is represented by Ms H, complains  that Nationwide Building  Society  rejected her 
claim under Section  75 Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect  of cosmetics.  She also 
complains about  the service Nationwide provided. 
Background
In December 2018 Ms R bought 25 products online from a company I will call L. She was 
also entitled to two free gifts. Two days later the products were  delivered, but 13 of the items 
had broken and had leaked causing  damage  to the packaging of the remaining  items. She 
says she contacted L, but it only offered to replace one of the items.
Several days later Ms R emailed Nationwide with photos of the damaged  items. Nationwide  
asked for further  information which Ms R supplied. It informed her that it could only dispute 
£235.05 as the other  items  werent  damaged and asked for evidence if her attempting to 
return them.  
Ms R explained she had thrown  them  away and expressed her disappointment with 
Nationwide. She also said she objected to being  contacted on her landline as this 
exacerbated her health problems. Nationwide tried calling Ms R several times but without  
success and it issued  final response letter not upholding her complaint. Ms R expressed  her 
dissatisfaction and brought her complaint to this service.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who initially  recommend it be 
upheld in part. She didnt think it unreasonable for Nationwide to have decided not to pursue 
a chargeback given  the goods had been disposed of by Ms R. However, she thought that Ms 
R had a valid claim under Sections 75. She said that goods to the value of £235.05 had 
been damaged,  but the remaining goods  were usable even of the packaging had been 
damaged. 
She didnt  think it unreasonable for Ms R to have disposed of the goods  given the state they 
were in. 
She also considered  Ms Rs complaints about the service provided by Nationwide. She said 
she didnt have any evidence that Ms R had previously  informed  Nationwide  of her health 
conditions, or told it not to contact her on her landline.  She said the Society  was entitled to 
contact consumers based on the information  it has on file. She suggested  Nationwide  refund 
£235.05 plus interest. 
Nationwide responded to say that of the damaged goods no single item was valued at more  
than £100. Our investigator issued a revised  view explaining that only two items cost more 
than £100 and they were still fit for purpose.  Section  75 only applied to goods costing 
between £100  and £30,000  so she didnt consider she could uphold the complaint.
Ms H didnt agree and said the items were gifts and the packaging was an integral part. She 
said they werent fit for purpose as they couldnt  be given as gifts. She said Nationwide  
hadnt told her about the limits or the chargeback and she asked that the matter  be 
escalated. 
Ref: DRN02224452My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75 the consumer  has an equal right to claim against the provider of the credit 
or the retailer providing the goods  or services,  if there has been  a misrepresentation or 
breach of contract on the suppliers part. But the legislation  says a claim only applies to any 
single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price more than £100 or less than 
£30,000. 
Although the total order came to well in excess of £100, each individual item had a price less 
than £100. Our investigator has treated two items as costing more than £100, but I am not 
persuaded that is the case. The two items  were  in fact two lots of goods  each of which  cost 
less that £100.  The law refers to the cash price of an individual item so two separate but 
identical items are two single items. While it is regrettable  that the financial limits werent 
picked up earlier I regret to say that there is no basis for a valid claim under Section 75.
As far as the chargeback is concerned I dont consider Nationwide  has done anything wrong. 
Chargeback is a process that is provided  by the Card Scheme. It allows  customers  to ask for 
a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods or services  they've paid for. 
There's no automatic  right to a chargeback. Nor is chargeback a guaranteed method  of 
getting a refund. The Card Scheme checks the nature of the problem against the possible 
chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will be successful. If the bank feels  that a 
claim won't be successful, they don't have to raise a chargeback.  I dont think there was a 
likelihood of the claim being successful  so I dont think  it unreasonable for Nationwide  not to 
have pursued a chargeback.
I appreciate Ms R feels aggrieved with Nationwide and its handling of her claim. She has 
expressed herself in forthright terms, but I have seen nothing to say that the Society knew  of 
her health  condition or that she didnt want to be called.  As such I dont consider I can 
uphold that part of her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 
14 May 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0222445