K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains Bank of Scotland plc trading  as Halifax (Halifax) have placed restrictions  
on his account  and wouldnt let him have access to his money.
background 
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 30 September  2019.  Ive attached a copy  to 
this decision. It set out my provisional conclusions.  Halifax  accepted  my provisional decision 
and agreed to pay Mr F the £300  compensation I recommended. 
Mr F M didnt  think the amount of compensation Id suggested in the provisional decision 
was adequate for all the issues hed encountered whilst going through  this problem with 
Halifax. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision.
I appreciate Mr F feels what happened  to him needs to be properly addressed so that no one 
else in the future falls victim to this situation.  But its the role of this service to resolve  
individual complaints and to award  redress where  appropriate.  I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have  the power to make rules for financial businesses  or 
to punish them.
I know Mr F thinks the settlement  the bank has now agreed doesnt reflect the seriousness 
of the events. And Im sorry to learn  he feels the compensation suggested seems to make 
light of the situation. But we are an informal dispute  resolution service and our awards may 
differ to those made in any litigation.  Taking  everything into account and in light of our 
general level of awards Im satisfied the compensation  I suggested - which  Halifax have now 
agreed to - is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
So, although  Ive considered everything  hes said, I dont feel Mr F has sent any evidence  
which changes my conclusions. So, I dont see any reason to alter my view.  Given  how 
strongly Mr F feels about what happened  he may want to pursue the matter further through 
other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what we  in trying to resolve  his dispute with 
Halifax informally  can do for him.
Ref: DRN00959862my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  
should pay Mr F £300 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00959863Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr F complains Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax  (Halifax) have placed  restrictions on his 
account and wouldnt  let him have access to his money.
background
On 6 December 2018 an interim lump  sum deduction  order  in the amount of £2437.77 was made by 
the Child  Maintenance Service (CMS) to recover child maintenance from Mr Fs account  held with 
Halifax. This order was received by Halifax on 10 December 2018 and on that day they deducted 
£2437.77 from Mr Fs account  and held it in a pending account until further instructions  were  received.  
On that date Halifax also placed a marker on Mr Fs account which  restricted certain  transactions. So 
whilst the restriction  was in place Mr F had to go into the branch to transact on his account.
A final lump sum deduction order was made on 1 January  2019 in the same amount. On 19 February  
2019 CMS  told Halifax  the amount in the final order was varied to £593.35. On 20 February 2019 
Halifax refunded  the £2437.77 to Mr Fs account and the following day deducted the varied amount of 
£593.35 to hold pending  instructions to pay from the CMS. And on 27 March 2019 CMS  further 
instructed Halifax to make the payment they held under the order of 1 January 2019 to them.
Mr F complained to Halifax as hed gone into the branch  on 13 and 14 March 2019 to withdraw  money  
but was unable to. Halifax partly upheld his complaint. In relation to the restrictions on the account  
Halifax said where there was a court order in place they were legally bound to comply with it and this 
was why theyd had to restrict Mr Fs accounts. They said whilst the court order was in place he could 
transact on his account  but would need to go into branch to do so where the restriction could be lifted 
and replaced once  hed completed  his transaction. But Halifax accepted this wasnt the case when Mr 
F went  into the branch  on 13 March and they offered to pay him £100 for the inconvenience caused.  
Mr F was unhappy and brought  the complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly as when a court order is in place banks have to 
comply with them. She thought Halifax had never denied  Mr F access to his money as he had access  
to it via branch  banking.  And Halifax couldnt let him withdraw the funds  and close the account  as they 
were waiting further instructions from the court. She also thought Halifaxs apology and offer of £100 
compensation for the poor customer service in the branch was what  shed expect  and didnt think they 
needed to do anything further.
Mr F disagreed with the view, he told us he couldnt access his own money and asked for an 
ombudsmans view. He felt Halifax  held his money  a six figure sum  for six months on the basis of 
receiving a court order  from CMS  initially for £2437.77 and then reducing to £593.35. 
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F asked to speak with me before I reached my decision, but I didnt think this was necessary.  I fully 
understand the things hes unhappy with and theres enough information  for me to fairly to reach  a 
provisional decision.
No one disputes that Halifax were required  to comply with the orders issued  by CMS in respect of Mr 
Fs account.  But from everything Ive seen so far I think their actions in debiting and holding the 
ordered amount and placing the restriction on the account went beyond what was required here given 
the terms of the order. I also think it was disproportionate given the amount of the order and the 
balance of Mr Fs account. So Im planning to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why I think that 
based on the evidence  Ive seen so far.
Ref: DRN00959864The first order  legally required the bank Not to do anything to reduce the amount standing  to the 
credit of the account specified in the order to below  £2,473.77. Halifax did that when they debited  
and held the ordered amount.
And although the order  went onto state  If the amount  in the account is already less than £2,473.77,  
you must not do anything that will further reduce it and to tell us if the amount in the account is the 
same as, or less than the amount on the order. If it is less, please tell us what that amount is I cant  
see there was anything  in the initial  or later orders which supports Halifaxs  assertion that they had to 
restrict the account to comply with the original order.
Im unable to see any requirement in the order preventing  further withdrawals over there ordered 
amount or restrict access to the balance. The information Halifax have sent me show their restriction 
prevented certain  transactions and that it required Mr F to attend  a branch to undertake those 
transactions.
I appreciate it wasnt Halifaxs intention to completely prevent Mr F having  access  to his money  but I 
think its clear that access to his money was restricted as he had to visit a branch. And I cant  see the 
order from CMS required that. So the restriction  on the account  doesnt seem  fair. Nor does it seem 
proportionate to me when I consider the balance of money in the account against  the amount of the 
court order.
The reality is that Mr F was prevented from accessing his money when he visited the branch  on 13 
and 14 March due to the customer service failings which Halifax accept and have offered  £100 
compensation for.
Overall on the evidence presently before me I think this complaint should  be upheld  and I think the 
compensation offered isnt enough for Halifaxs failings here. So Im planning to ask Halifax to pay Mr 
F £300 for unnecessarily  restricting (and for a short time preventing) access  to his account and for the 
poor service hes experienced in branch.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is, subject to anything further that Mr F or Bank of Scotland  plc trading  as 
Halifax send me by 14 October 2019, that Im planning to uphold this complaint and require Bank  of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Mr F £300 compensation.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0095986