K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
when he took out a personal loan. He said wasnt even made  aware he had PPI.
background
Mr H applied for a loan of £500 from Lloyds in 1997  and bought  a single  premium  PPI policy 
at the same  time. This type of PPI policy  meant that it had to be paid for up front  in one 
single payment. It cost £95 and this amount was also lent to Mr H by Lloyds and subject to 
interest. Both the original loan and PPI loan initially ran over a period of 24 months.  
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld  but Mr H disagreed and it 
has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
These events took place  22 years ago and neither Lloyds nor Mr H is able to send me the 
original loan agreement  or other documents from the sale.  Given  how long ago it was, this 
isnt unusual and businesses arent  required to keep records  indefinitely. 
However Ive seen a number of very similar  sales from around this time period and am 
familiar with the documentation Lloyds normally used. So in making a decision in this case,  
Ive taken account of what  both parties have told me, but Ive also used my knowledge and 
experience of how these particular  PPI sales were usually carried out. 
As this was all such a long time ago, its obviously possible what  Mr H is able to remember 
may have  been  affected by the passage of time. I say this because  using what  I know  about 
the Lloyds sales  processes  I think its more likely  that there wouldve been a discussion 
about the loan and whether Mr H wanted to have PPI with it. 
Based on that discussion, I think Mr H would have then been  given a loan agreement which 
described the PPI as Optional Loan Protection. The agreement would probably have also 
offered a yes or no choice as far as buying  the PPI was concerned.  And I think the yes 
box to have PPI wouldve  had to have been  selected for the PPI to be added. 
So I think Mr H would  have probably  been given an option on the form about taking the 
policy out and would  have been able to see he didnt have buy to any PPI cover if he didnt 
want to. I therefore think its more likely he gave his consent to buying the PPI policy  with his 
loan.
Lloyds says it recommended this policy  to Mr H which means it had a duty to make  sure that 
it was suitable  for his situation. I looked  carefully  at his circumstances of that time to help me 
decide about this. From what Ive seen, he was eligible  for the cover  and I dont  think  hed 
have been caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  Mr 
Ref: DRN00464932H says he had some sickness protection with his job and Ive thought  about that. But Im 
afraid it doesnt necessarily mean the cover  wasnt of use.
The policy could have  paid out a monthly  benefit in the event of him being  unable to work  or 
losing his job and this would have been in addition to any other  means he already had in 
place. I cant say why he took out the PPI, but I can understand how he could have had a 
use for it. The loan and the PPI policy also both ran for the same  term lengths and because 
of this, and the things  Ive mentioned above,  I think the policy  was suitable for him.
Lloyds also had to give information about  the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
I obviously cant say what was actually  said to Mr H or whether he was told everything he 
should have been. However, on some of the agreements Ive seen, Lloyds didnt always 
show the interest that would be added to the PPI clearly enough. This may have happened  
in this case. However, I can see the interest  on the PPI part of the loan wouldve amounted  
to less than £16 anyway over the full term and I dont  think this would have made a 
difference to whether Mr H would have still bought the policy. I think  hed have  still bought it, 
even though Lloyds might not have done  everything right.  
I accept there are documents missing  from this case that would have been helpful  for me to 
see. But overall, I think Mr H made  a choice to buy the cover and it was suitable  for him. And 
I think the document that he signed during  the sale wouldve showed him that PPI was being 
applied and it wasnt a compulsory part of his loan. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. And I dont direct Lloyds 
Bank plc to do anything  to put matters right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0046493