K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Mrs G complain that Santander  UK plc (when it was trading as National & 
Provincial Building  Society)  mis-sold  a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr R and Mrs G in 1984  in connection with 
a mortgage. The policy provided them with cover  if they couldnt work because  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr R and Mrs G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr R and Mrs Gs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr R and Mrs Gs needs?
- Did Santander give Mr R and Mrs G the information they needed to decide  whether 
to take out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mr 
R and Mrs G are worse  off as a result.  That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr R and Mrs Gs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr R and Mrs G say Santander  didnt  make it clear to them that the PPI was optional. They 
assumed that the premium was part of their overall mortgage repayment.  Ive noted 
everything theyve said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr R and Mrs G 
when the policy was sold. And Santander  hasnt been able to provide much documentation  
from the time of the sale, as these events  happened many years  ago. Thats not surprising, 
and its similar to some  other cases Ive seen.
But Santander has provided a sample of the mortgage  application  form in use at the time. I 
think its likely that Mr R and Mrs G wouldve had to complete a similar application for their 
mortgage. The application form includes a section about PPI that says:
Ref: DRN07831492Do you require personal accident and sickness cover?   YES/NO
Do you require personal accident  and sickness with redundancy cover?  YES/NO
From what  Ive seen, I think the optional  nature  of the PPI was made clear on Santanders  
mortgage application documentation.  And I think its unlikely  that the PPI wouldve been  
arranged if Mr R and Mrs G hadnt completed the application to show  that they wanted the 
cover. 
In the absence of anything  else to support what Mr R and Mrs G have told me, I havent  
been able to safely conclude that Santander didnt make them aware  that the PPI was 
optional.
Santander accepts  that it probably  advised Mr R and Mrs G to take out the policy  and it 
doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time.  I say this because:
-There is nothing to suggest that Mr R and Mrs G werent eligible for the cover, given 
the policy terms and conditions. 
-Mr R says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because  
of sickness or accident. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition  to any employer 
benefits he and Mrs G were entitled to, and would have allowed them to use those 
benefits to cover  other expenses. So I think Mr R and Mrs G would have had some 
use for the policy, despite their existing arrangements. 
-Theres nothing to suggest that Mr R and Mrs G were affected by any of the 
conditions limiting  the policys main benefits,  such as those  affecting  self-employed 
people or people with pre-existing medical conditions.  As they could have benefited 
from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely they needed  better advice or 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated  to Mr R and Mrs 
G before  they agreed to buy it. But Mr R and Mrs G took out the policy  knowing they 
would have to pay something for it. It seems the policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable.  So I think it unlikely Mr R and Mrs G would have made a 
different decision if better  information about  the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr R and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr R and Mrs G werent  affected  by any of 
the exclusions or limitations  and the policy seems  to have  been  affordable.  So I think it 
unlikely Mr R and Mrs G would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided  overall,  I think they would still have taken  out the policy.
Ive thought about what Mr R has said about  the way in which the PPI premiums increased. 
But Im not persuaded that the points hes made means the PPI was mis-sold. 
If Mr R and Mrs G consider Santander incorrectly calculated the increase to their premiums  
they will need to raise this as a separate complaint with Santander.  If theyre not happy with 
its response they may be able to refer the matter to this service for further  consideration.
Ref: DRN07831493my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0783149