K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains Santander  UK Plc has treated her unfairly while shes been  unwell.  The 
banks approach has impacted on her health.
background
Miss T had an arrangement to pay Santander  £1 each month  towards her loan and credit  
card accounts. Itd been in place for a number of years. Miss S has a debilitating health  
condition and suffers from depression. Shed asked to be treated as a vulnerable customer  
but Santander didnt do so until December  2018. And when she called the bank she was cut 
off.
Miss T said she received  a letter in November 2018 to say her accounts  had been  passed to 
debt collection agencies.  She then received a letter demanding she repay £15000 within  
seven days. She found it very upsetting. Miss T finds  it difficult to communicate  with the bank 
or discuss her debts with the debt agencies. She feels  harassed and says it affects her 
health. So she wants Santander to take her circumstances into account.
Santander said itd recalled Miss Ts debts from the external debt agencies because  of her 
health issues. So she wouldnt be contacted by them again. And Miss T could  talk to the 
banks collections vulnerability team  if she wanted  to discuss her credit card or loan.  
Santander apologised for the delay investigating  and responding to Miss T. And it offered a 
total of £75 compensation. The bank said it wouldnt charge any additional  fees or interest. 
But it couldnt write off the outstanding balances.
Miss T wasnt  satisfied with Santanders response. So she contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She appreciated how difficult it mustve been for Miss T. 
But she didnt think Santander had acted unfairly  by taking steps to communicate with 
Miss T about repaying the outstanding balances. And she thought  the bank had acted fairly 
since it became aware of her medical  and financial situation from 2013 onwards. 
Miss T didnt agree. So shes  asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Miss T has been experiencing. Its clear her medical 
condition has a large impact on her life. Miss T has highlighted  other  complaints dealt with 
by our service which she feels are similar  to her own. But I have to consider each case on its 
own merits. 
So Ive looked  carefully at everything  Miss T and Santander have said to see if Santander 
has done anything  wrong. And if so what it needs  to do to put things right.
Miss T has explained she began to get into financial difficulty a number of years ago. And 
default notices  were issued in 2014. Miss T says she wasnt aware of the defaults. But I can 
see Santander wrote to Miss T at her registered  address to explain what  was happening at 
the time.  I realise Miss T is concerned  they will affect her credit  rating.  But Santander has a 
responsibility to report  how an account  is being  managed to the credit  reference agencies. 
Ref: DRN09468962Its not unusual  for a bank to pass defaulted accounts to a debt management agency to 
administer on their behalf. I realise  Miss T didnt  want  her personal details passing to a third 
party. And I do think the debt agencies couldve perhaps communicated  with Miss T in a way 
that minimised the stress caused. But Santander acted within  the terms and conditions of the 
account. And I can see its now taken the debts back  from the agencies.
When Santander became aware of Miss T financial difficulties and health condition  I would  
expect it to respond positively and sympathetically.  Id expect the bank to consider freezing 
any further interest or charges  on the debt. And it might discuss an affordable repayment 
plan as a way forward. 
Santander does  have an obligation to let Miss T know  the status of her accounts on a 
regular basis. But in the circumstances I would expect Santander to try and contact  Miss T in 
a sensitive and appropriate manner.
Santander agreed to accept a payment of £1 per month instead of the contractual  monthly 
payments that were  due. And when the bank  received information  about Miss Ts medical 
condition in 2016 it agreed  to maintain the £1 payments. Santander has also frozen any 
further interest and charges on Miss Ts accounts.
I know Miss T feels  Santander harassed  her about her debts  even though it was aware of 
her medical condition. Shes received  letters,  calls and texts from debt collection agencies  
on Santanders behalf. And despite  asking not to be contacted Miss T says shes  recently 
received another call from the bank which she found  difficult  to deal with. 
Santander hasnt  been able to find a record of the call. And I can see our investigator has 
contacted Santander to make sure they speak to Miss Ts adviser at the Citizens Advice 
Bureau rather than contact her directly.  Santander has confirmed it has the contact  details 
on its system  and theyve been  passed to the relevant teams. So I hope  this will minimise 
the impact on Miss T from now on. 
I do sympathise with the situation Miss T finds herself in. And I appreciate  how difficult  it has 
been for her to deal with the impact of her debts while in poor health. But based  on what Ive 
seen I cant really say Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss T. 
The bank accepted a token monthly payment when it became apparent Miss T would no 
longer be able to make  her contractual payments towards her loan or credit card account. 
And it suspended all interest  and charges on both accounts. I do accept the involvement  of 
third party debt agencies  added to Miss Ts stress. So Im pleased  to see Santander has 
taken the debts back in house.  And it has the details of Miss Ts adviser at the Citizens  
Advice Bureau so it can discuss  how best to move forward.
I realise Miss T will be disappointed with this outcome. But I cant really say Santander has 
treated miss T unfairly. Its put in place appropriate measures that take into account Miss Ts 
circumstances. And its offered £25 and £50 compensation  for slow responses to Miss Ts 
communications. So I wont be asking the bank to do anything  more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN09468963Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0946896