K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) sold to Mrs O when she was 
taking out a Marks & Spencer account  in 1993.  A company called  Allianz Insurance  plc is 
now responsible  for these  types of sale, so Ill be referring to Allianz throughout this 
decision.
background
This decision is about the mis-sale of the PPI policy. I understand Mrs O has already  been 
written to about the commission from the sale. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the mis-sale complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. But 
Mrs O disagreed with this and asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Os mis-sale  complaint.
Mrs O says she wasnt aware  the policy was optional. However,  weve been sent her 
original application  form and I can see there  was a section on it which was about  PPI. 
There was a box to tick if PPI was something that Mrs O wanted  to have and she could 
also have also chosen to leave this section  blank. But this box was ticked  and Mrs O also 
filled out her name in the person insured box and entered  her date of birth.  She also 
signed the application form at the bottom  of the page. 
So I think Mrs O agreed to buy the cover and would have  been  able to see the policy was 
optional.
I dont think this was an advised  sale because I havent seen any of the type of paperwork  
we associate with advised sales. So I think Mrs Os application form was filled out and then 
sent off to be processed, on a non-advised basis. This corresponds with many similar 
Allianz cases Ive seen.
This means  it was for Mrs O to decide  for herself  whether the PPI was right for her. She still 
had a right to be given  information that was clear so she could make an informed decision 
about what she wanted to do.
Obviously all this happened  a very long time ago and I cant say Mrs O was told everything  
she should have  been. And I can see ways in which the form could have  been  set out more 
clearly. But Im afraid this doesnt change my overall decision, because  I think Mrs O would 
have probably  still taken out the cover.
This is because I think she could see the policy  wasnt something she had to buy. I also think 
she was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see 
in some of these policies.  I can see the cost of the cover was disclosed on the form at the 
Ref: DRN02938982point where she was asked to make her choice. And at 64p for every  £100 outstanding on 
her account,  I think the PPI was probably affordable for her.
I think the benefits on this PPI compared well with other PPI policies  Ive seen in that Mrs O 
could have had her balance reduced  by 15% each month if shed needed to claim.  This 
could have continued until the balance  was paid off. So I think  the policy  was of use to her 
and as a non-advised sale, Im afraid Mrs O made  her own decision about whether or not to 
add the cover.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs O, but I dont  think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
Im not upholding this mis-sale complaint and I dont direct Allianz Insurance plc to do 
anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs O to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0293898