K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold  them  a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs D took out a secured loan with Halifax in 2001. Halifax  sold them  PPI with the 
loan, the cost of which  was paid by monthly premium.  The PPI covered  Mr D for disablement 
and unemployment.  It also included life cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr and Mrs D disagreed,  so the 
case was passed  to me to review afresh. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D initially told us they arranged  the loan by post and that they had no knowledge 
that theyd been sold PPI. More recently, and in contradiction to this, they say they were  led 
to believe they had to have the PPI if they wanted  the loan. Unfortunately,  although  not 
surprisingly given how long ago the PPI was sold, there are gaps in the information available 
from the time. So I cant say with certainty  what took place. 
That said,  Halifax has provided  evidence to show the sale took place in-branch. Its also 
provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ds signed loan agreement that I gather would have been 
completed using  the information from a loan application form. The loan agreement included 
a printed X to indicate  they wanted PPI and shows the box to decline it as blank.
So, overall, I think it likely Mr and Mrs D were aware they were being sold PPI and that they 
knew it was optional. I think they agreed to take it out knowing that was the case. 
I believe Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D. So, among other things, it had to 
take steps to make  sure its recommendation was right for Mr and Mrs D. I dont know if it did 
that but I think it was right for them in any event.  I say that because, for example, Mr D was 
eligible for the PPI. And it doesnt  seem  hed have been affected by any of the main things 
the PPI excluded or limited cover for.
Mr and Mrs D say Mr D was entitled to enhanced  sick pay from his employer for a time. But 
the PPI benefits  were  considerable  in that theyd  have  paid out for up to 12 months  per claim 
if Mr D became unemployed.  And the policy potentially met the loan repayments for up to 60 
months per claim if he was too sick or ill to work.  While Mr and Mrs D have provided 
evidence to show Mr D received a pension at the time, I dont think  the net monthly amount 
was such that they had no need for the PPI if, say, Mr D wasnt working.  
So I think Mr and Mrs D still had a need  for the PPI, not least because  the loan was a long-
term financial commitment secured against  their home and the potential  consequences of 
them not keeping  up with the monthly payments were significant.
Ref: DRN07508752Theres no indication that Mr and Mrs D found  the monthly premium to be unaffordable.  And 
the PPI was flexible enough to allow them to cancel it at no extra  cost if they decided  they no 
longer wanted  it.
Halifax also had to give Mr and Mrs D good enough information about  the PPI so they could 
make up their own minds about  whether it was right for them. I dont know that it did that but, 
as I say, it appears as though they wanted to take out the cover. And I cant,  for the same  
reasons Ive given  above, see what other  information about the PPI would have put them off 
taking it out.  
Taking everything into account,  I dont consider that Mr and Mrs D have  lost out because of 
how Halifax sold them  the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0750875