K821x#15complaint
Miss M has complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd unfairly cancelled her life protection  policy 
after a missed payment.
background
In 2001 Miss M took out an Adaptable Term Plan which was a reviewable convertible term 
assurance policy. This meant that after the initial term of twenty-five  years  the policy could 
be converted to a whole  of life plan regardless  of health.
Miss M has said the policy was taken  specifically for her young daughter  who has severe 
health concerns.  Shes said that she understood the importance of protecting  her family in 
the event of illness or death and given  her daughters condition she was concerned for her 
daughters future and future care needs  if she wasnt  around. She wanted to ensure that 
regardless of when  she passed away her daughter would be covered for future care 
financially.
There had been  no problems with Miss M paying  into the policy  until 2018 when in June the 
direct debit for the policy didnt go through due to insufficient funds. Miss M has said at this 
point in time she was very ill and was out of action for a few weeks.  She wasnt aware of 
what had happened  with regards to the payment of the policys  premium because  she wasnt 
able to check her bank account or open  any mail.
It was only sometime after, in August, when Miss M had recovered did she open the letter 
from Zurich dated  22 June 2018  which informed  her of the missed payment  and the problem 
with the direct debit.  This letter stated that all Miss M had to do was cover June and Julys 
missed premium. It also stated that all future contributions would be routinely collected by 
direct debit as normal.
Miss M made these  payments by electronic transfer  on 9 August 2018  which  she thought  
allowed time for Zurich  to collect  the next premium which was due on 14 August 2018  in the 
normal direct  debit  way.
However, Miss M then received a letter a few days later dated 10 August 2018 from Zurich 
saying it had not received the required monies and the policy  had been cancelled.  But the 
letter also said the policy could  be reinstated  subject to receiving the payments for August 
and September,  a declaration of health and a new direct debit mandate  by 4 September  
2018.
Miss M sent the declaration of health  and a new direct debit mandate first class on 1 
September 2018 as well as an electronic payment  to cover August and Septembers 
premium.
The documents returned were dated 1 September 2018 and the bank  transfer had been 
done on the same day.
However, Zurich didnt receive  the payment until 10 September 2018 and didnt receive the 
documents until 13 September 2018. Therefore  because of missing the deadline of 4 
September Zurich  cancelled  the plan.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it should  be upheld.  While 
he accepted the payment was missed  he felt this was reasonable given Miss Ms ill health at 
Ref: DRN00739022that point in time. He also felt Miss M had covered the missed payments as soon  as she had 
found out about them which clearly  showed she wanted to keep the policy  in place. He didnt 
think it was reasonable  for Zurich to cancel  the plan after seventeen years of no payment 
problems. So, because  of this he felt Zurich should reinstate the plan.
Zurich didnt agree with the assessment. It raised doubts over the date Miss M made the 
second payments  in September. It felt that although she had said she had made the 
electronic transfer  on 1 September 2018  it wasnt received by Zurich  until 10 September  
2018, but this should  have been received immediately if this was an electronic payment. It 
also raised doubts over when she had signed  the documents  that had to be returned by 4 
September because  they were not received  until 13 September 2018. It also reiterated the 
point that the policy  had been administered correctly and was lapsed correctly  in line with the 
policys terms and conditions.
The investigator considered the points Zurich raised but wasnt  prepared  to change  his 
outcome. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been  passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no doubt that a payment for the policy was missed and it is Miss Ms responsibility 
as the policyholder to ensure the premiums were paid correctly  and at the right time. There  
is also no doubt that the terms and conditions of this specific policy state that if missed  
payments are not made  up within ninety days of the first missed  premium the policy  will be 
cancelled.
However, while this is the case, when considering the issue  of this complaint I need to also 
think about what was fair and reasonable in the given circumstances.
Miss M had kept the policy in place since 2001  with no other problems. Its clear she had a 
specific reason for taking  out the policy and maintaining it for all this time which Zurich would 
have been aware  of this, from the point  of the sale. Also,  as soon as Miss M became aware  
of the missed premiums,  she paid them and did all she had to do to ensure the policy  was 
kept in place. So, to me this shows clear intention  of wanting to maintain this policy and 
doing all she could  to do this. 
As well as this, given Miss M had paid the necessary premiums,  only two of them  being  late, 
by the time Zurich  had sent the cancellation letter and Zurich  has confirmed these payments 
were received, I think it should have checked  Miss Ms account on its system before 
cancelling the policy. Had this check taken place, while  the letter may have been an 
automatic one and so would still have been  sent, Zurich could have contacted Miss M after 
to clarify the situation and reinstate the policy.  At the very least  I think this should  have  been  
ascertained within days of the letter  being  sent.  And had that happened I think  this matter 
could have been easily resolved.
Ref: DRN00739023I know the deadline was missed but I have no reason to doubt  what  Miss M has said about 
the date she posted them and the date she made the electronic payment.  If there  were  
delays in the postal system, then Miss M cant be responsible for this.
Ultimately in my view this is a case of a business following its processes without any thought 
for the impact of those processes on one of its customers. I appreciate the premium  and the 
final deadline was missed. But given this was a policy which provided valuable life protection  
I think Zurich should  have done  more  than it did to explore why the payment was missed and 
help Miss M. Especially given the deadline was only missed by a few days and the previous 
missed payments had been covered. However,  instead it cancelled the policy  after three 
months of the missed  premium regardless of Miss M meeting the requirements  Zurich had 
imposed. 
Overall Miss M did all she could to get her valuable policy  back on track.  And Zurich  ignored 
her attempts to resolve this satisfactorily  for Miss M and just blindly followed its processes. It 
unreasonably cancelled the policy within three months of the first missed payment without 
any thought about the fact Miss M had paid into this policy  for the last seventeen  years. Had 
the missed premiums been  for twelve months or longer  I would understand as I would  
expect it to be impractical for a policy to be reinstated after non-payment of twelve months. 
But this isnt the case here.
So overall, I think Zurich  acted too hastily and followed its processes without any thought  for 
Miss M or the importance of this life protection policy and should have done more  to help her 
keep the policy in place.
What Zurich Assurance Ltd must do to put things right
Zurich Assurance  Ltd must reinstate Miss Ms Adaptable  Term Plan to the exact position it 
would have been had the premium in June 2018  not been  missed and no further issues had 
occurred between June  and September 2018.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Zurich Assurance  Ltd must reinstate the plan as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2020.
Ayshea khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0073902