K821x#15complaint
Ms M says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about one running  account credit  facility  and one high-cost short term 
credit instalment loan that Sunny provided  to Ms M between May 2014 and March 2015.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Ms complaint and thought  that she shouldnt have been provided 
with any further  credit  from the third drawdown  of the running  account facility in July 2014. 
Sunny disagreed. So the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms M could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Ms M, I think  that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Ms M was unlikely to have been  able to make her payments  in a 
sustainable manner  when it provided Ms M with the tenth drawdown  on her running  account 
facility in September 2014. 
I say this because  by this stage, it ought to have  been  apparent to Sunny  that Ms Ms use of 
her open-ended facility  suggested that there  was no reasonable  prospect of her clearing the 
Ref: DRN06659772balance within the period  of time originally  set out in the agreement, or even a reasonable 
period of time after this. And it also ought to have been  apparent  that Ms M was relying on 
the facility too. 
Sunny then transitioned Ms M from a facility which its own product literature said shouldnt  
be used for extended  periods to an of instalment  loan which  had the same effect. So, in my 
view, Sunny continued lending to Ms M where  it ought reasonably  to have  realised that any 
further credit  was more  likely than not unsustainable for her. 
Ms M had to pay interest  and charges on credit that Sunny shouldnt have provided her with. 
So I think that she lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms M paid on any advances  of credit  granted  from 
September 2014 onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all adverse information about Ms Ms credit  should be removed from her credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Ms complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Ms M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0665977