K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  about the amount they were able to borrow  under a lifetime 
mortgage with Legal & General Home Finance Limited (L&G). They say L&G led them to 
believe they could  borrow more than it later offered them.
background
Mr and Mrs E applied  for a lifetime  mortgage with L&G in May 2016.  The application was 
completed through an independent financial adviser  (IFA), who recommended the 
mortgage to Mr and Mrs E. The mortgage completed, with Mr and Mrs E borrowing a lump  
sum of £78,000.
Mr and Mrs E applied  to borrow additional  funds in late 2017, with the application  again  
proceeding through their IFA. They  were  looking to carry out some renovations to their 
property. A further loan of £15,115 was arranged with L&G.
In January 2018, Mr and Mrs E complained. They said that the additional borrowing 
available to them had been much less than they were expecting, based on what L&Gs 
online calculator  had told them prior to the original  application. This had left them short of the 
funds they needed to complete their home  improvements. They also said the release of the 
additional funds  had taken too long, as L&Gs website implied it would only take 23 days  but 
it actually took over two and a half months. And they were  unhappy  at the costs  theyd had 
to pay for the second loan, which they thought  ought to have been  lower as they were 
borrowing much  less.
L&G said Mr and Mrs Es original mortgage  was a lump  sum mortgage  so drawdowns  
werent possible. They couldve borrowed a little more under that product at the outset, but 
theyd asked for £78,000 and so thats  what theyd been given. It said its online calculators 
were used for illustrative purposes, and were based on its current products  with Mr and 
Mrs Es original  product  no longer available. With regard to the additional borrowing, L&G 
said it had only received Mr and Mrs Es application from their IFA on 23 November 2017.  
There was no commitment  to a 23-day timeframe, but in any case  it had completed 
everything within 19 working days,  which  it thought  was reasonable. 
In dealing with the complaint, L&G noted that the offer of additional borrowing hadnt 
explained to Mr and Mrs E that they needed  to take independent legal advice  and that 
theyd need to pay for it. So it offered  to pay their legal costs of up to £650.  But Mr and Mrs E 
remained unhappy  so they referred their complaint to us. 
Our investigator thought it was clear  that the online calculators were  intended  for guidance  
purposes, and were  only for new customers.  And he thought  it was the IFA, rather than L&G,  
who was responsible for ensuring the mortgage met Mr and Mrs Es needs.  He said the offer 
to cover Mr and Mrs Es legal costs was fair  so didnt think L&G needed  to do any more.
As Mr and Mrs E didnt accept our investigators view, their complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
Ref: DRN03727372my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as our investigator  and for much the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. In doing  so, I wont necessarily address each of Mr and 
Mrs Es points,  which I hope they wont take as discourtesy. Ive taken everything theyve 
told us into account,  but my findings  will focus on the points I consider most relevant to how 
Ive reached my decision.
Mr and Mrs E say that L&Gs online calculator created a false  expectation as to how much 
theyd be able to borrow. Such calculators are tools to help customers  get a general sense of 
what might  be possible,  based on limited information. Theyre not definitive;  mortgages are 
subject to application processes that take into account a wide variety  of factors,  and the 
lenders current criteria which change frequently. Ultimately, thered be no need  for an 
application at all if the amount of money generated by the calculator was guaranteed.
Given the time thats passed, I understand L&Gs website may have changed since Mr and 
Mrs E used it. But looking at the screenshots and quotes of the site that Mr and Mrs E have 
provided, I cant see that the website told them that a particular amount would definitely be 
available. 
In any case, I think the application itself  and the subsequent paperwork issued by L&G  
wouldve superseded the indicative amounts provided by the online calculator. The 
documentation clearly  set out the amount that L&G was willing to lend Mr and Mrs E. It gave 
them a key facts  illustration and mortgage  offer, which said that the maximum cash lump  
sum available  to them was £80,620  and that the amount theyd asked for was £78,000. 
Again there was no guarantee  that a particular amount of funds (if any) would be available in 
the future.  
I know Mr and Mrs E feel that L&G incorrectly referred to a further  advance in some of its 
literature, given that the additional borrowing was processed as a separate  loan. I see where 
theyre coming from here  theres quite a lot of jargon and it wouldve been clearer  (and 
more accurate) to have referred to it as additional  borrowing throughout. I can see this 
terminology was adopted in the paperwork in respect of the second loan. But I dont think 
this terminology made much of a difference here  as even if the original paperwork had said 
additional borrowing, the content  of these  terms wouldnt  have changed.  So I dont think Mr 
and Mrs E wouldve  acted  any differently.
So taking everything into account, I dont think L&G misled Mr and Mrs E into thinking that a 
particular amount of additional borrowing would be available. The information it provided 
when the original mortgage was taken out was clear and correct.  And if there was any doubt, 
Mr and Mrs E had the opportunity to query it  either with L&G directly or, more 
appropriately, with their IFA. If Mr and Mrs E dont  feel that the mortgage met their needs  in 
view of the future borrowing they seem to have had in mind from the outset, thats a matter 
theyd need to follow up with their IFA (as I understand  they have done).
Ref: DRN03727373When Mr and Mrs E asked for additional  borrowing, it was up to L&G to decide how much it 
was willing  to lend (and on what terms)  in line with its lending criteria.  It was explained in the 
original mortgage  offer that future applications would be assessed  against criteria in force at 
the time,  as is common industry practice. Mr and Mrs E are concerned  that L&G hasnt made  
its criteria available, but thats not something Id expect it to do given its commercial 
sensitivity.  
 
Ive considered the points Mr and Mrs E have made about the process they had to go 
through when  arranging  the second loan,  and in particular that they had to pay an additional  
set of fees. The product literature set out that such fees would be payable  for further 
borrowing, and again this isnt out of line with common industry practice. It may seem unfair 
to Mr and Mrs E that theyve had to pay similar amounts the second time around despite  
borrowing significantly less, but I think its up to L&G to decide  the cost of its products and 
services and I can see that these were  made  clear  to Mr and Mrs E within  the paperwork. 
More broadly this principle doesnt strike me as unreasonable, as a similar amount of work is 
likely to be required irrespective of the loan amount. L&G has, however, accepted that it 
failed to notify Mr and Mrs E of the likely legal costs theyd need to pay. Its already refunded 
them the legal costs they ended up having  to pay by way of apology  for this, which seems a 
fair way of putting  things right. 
Ive also looked  at the time it took L&G to process the additional  borrowing application. Mr 
and Mrs E say this ought to have been done  within 23 days. But theres  no record of such  a 
commitment on L&Gs  part (and I note Mr and Mrs E refer to it only as implicit), so I dont 
think thats a standard I could hold it to here.  From  what Ive seen,  the application was only 
finalised and submitted to L&G in late November  2017. L&G then reviewed the application, 
issued an offer in mid-December and the loan competed in mid-January 2018. So I cant see 
that there  were any unreasonable delays  on L&Gs part.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0372737