K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold credit  card payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr A took out PPI in 1994 when  he applied for a credit card. Both were  done at the same 
time using  a direct mailing postal application.
At the time Mr A was employed as a shop manager.  He told us his was entitled  to 12 months  
sick pay and he had a sum of less than three months worth  of pay in savings. He also said he 
had no health  problems at the time.
The policy provided  cover  for accident and sickness, unemployment and death  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  up to 10% of Mr As credit  card balance  in 
the event of a successful  claim for accident  and sickness or unemployment. And it would do 
so until either the outstanding balance was cleared or Mr A returned  to work  whichever  
happened first. At the time, it cost 60p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The 
premium would continue  to have to be paid during  a successful claim and it did attract 
interest. 
In summary  Mr As representative raised the following complaint points on his behalf:
Mr A was unaware that he had PPI
the policy terms and conditions were not explained  including the exclusions
Mr A had 12 months sick pay and around  £2,000 in savings  he couldve used to 
meet his card payments.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the mis-sale complaint should be upheld. They said Mr A 
chose to take out the cover and there  wasnt anything to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for him. But they said the payment BoS made  in relation to commission  and 
profit share was fair in the circumstances.
Mr As representative disagrees. Because the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it 
was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and published some  example final decisions that set out in 
detail how these relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr As. I dont intend  to 
set that out here, but Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr As complaint.
Having done so, and carefully considered the information provided by both parties to this 
dispute, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As mis-sale complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below.
Ref: DRN08036532did Mr A know  he had a choice?
BoS needed to make it clear to Mr A that PPI was optional.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr As credit  card application that he completed and posted back to BoS 
to take out the credit  card. I can see here that under the heading Additional Services the 
PPI was described as being optional and Mr A had to tick a box to agree to take it out, 
which I can see he did.
The application didnt  say or imply PPI was a condition of the card  Ive already  said it was 
described as optional  and by having to tick a box Im not persuaded Mr A wouldve  thought  
he had to have  it.
So taking everything into account, I think BoS presented the policy to Mr A as being optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.
Im also not persuaded Mr A was unaware  that he had PPI. Not only as I said above did he 
choose to take it out on his credit card application,  it appeared on his card statements as a 
separate entry for several years. So I think its the case that Mr A has simply forgotten  that 
he had it  it was after all many years ago.
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Because this was a postal  sale where Mr A 
had no direct interaction with a member of BoS staff, there wasnt an opportunity for it to 
provide advice. And Ive not seen  anything within the card application,  which makes me think 
that Mr A was led to reasonably believe that hed been given advice. Rather BoS alerted Mr 
A to the fact that he could  take out the policy and gave him information  about it.
So looking  at what happened when  BoS sold Mr A the PPI, Im satisfied it did not provide 
advice.
This means  BoS didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable or right for Mr A. But it did have  
to give him enough  clear  and timely  information  about the policy  so he could make an 
informed decision about it.
the information
Ive already said BoS has provided us with Mr As credit card application.  It has also provided  the 
policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied  to policies like 
Mr As. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr A at the time,  I dont think BoS gave  Mr A the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
As Ive said,  this was a postal sale. The application didnt say much  at all about PPI  
instead it directed  Mr A to an accompanying leaflet to find out more.
Ref: DRN08036533I think the information provided  would have given Mr A a broad sense of the main things the 
policy covered and that it wasnt  free. And given Mr A was completing his application  in his 
own time, I think  its reasonable to assume he wouldve paid more attention to the written 
information provided than for example in a face to face meeting where more reliance might  
be placed on the spoken word. I dont think Mr A wouldve decided to take it out knowing 
nothing about  what he was ticking for.
But it was BoS responsibility  to draw to Mr As attention the important information  i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and limitations,  
which might  be relevant to his decision.  
Im not persuaded BoS did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mr A, including the need  to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that BoS adequately drew to 
his attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
So I dont  think BoS gave Mr A sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy. 
what effect did BoS shortcomings have on Mr A? To what extent  did Mr A suffer  loss 
or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr A. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr A suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr A would have still 
taken out the policy  had BoS done things  properly. 
Ive already said this wasnt an advised  sale. So it was for Mr A to weigh up in his own mind 
the cost of the policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt 
insure against the risk of being unable to work.
Ref: DRN08036534As Ive found above, Mr A chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But I accept 
Mr A made this decision  based on incomplete information. So Ive gone on to consider Mr 
As circumstances  at the time to help me decide whether he wouldve still taken out PPI in 
any event or acted differently had BoS done  anything more. And having done so, I think its 
likely Mr A wouldve still gone  ahead  with PPI in any event. I say this because:
Mr A was eligible for the cover;
he was employed  and in good  health, so he wasnt  affected  by the key things the 
policy didnt cover - for example for existing medical  conditions or unusual  
employment circumstances.
Mr A said he had existing means  at has disposal  12 months sick pay and some  
savings. But Im not persuaded by what Mr A says about the extent of his sick pay. 
Mr As credit card application  records Mr A was employed as a shop manager 
earning around £13,000 a year. I dont think given  his position  and his age at the 
time  that he wouldve been entitled  to this level of sick pay. I think  more  likely than 
not it was significantly  less.
But In any event the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay and wouldve 
done so until Mr As account balance was cleared or he returned to work   whichever 
happened first. 
So I think he wouldve found the policy useful and it wouldve helped him meet  his 
card payments at what would likely  be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time. 
Mr A didnt  know everything about  the cost, but it appears to have been affordable.
So, I think Mr A had some good  reasons to take the policy out. The evidence about  Mr As 
circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for him; 
he was eligible for its benefits;  and it provided  cover that, despite its limitations and 
exclusions could have  proved useful to him should  the insured risks have become a reality. 
conclusion
Overall and having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider it 
more likely than not that Mr A would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently 
close to what he thought he was getting  and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit 
in a difficult time, notwithstanding  the employment benefits hed likely have received and his 
other means. And in those circumstances  I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr A would 
have taken out the policy in any event. 
It follows that I dont think Mr A has suffered loss to the extent he should get back  everything  
he paid for PPI.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because:  
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr A about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN08036535my final decision
Ive decided that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   so Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr A any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
make no other award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0803653