K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  (Lloyds) avoided her home  
insurance policy and refused  to deal with her claim as a result. Miss H wants Lloyds to 
accept her claim and to compensate her for the loss and distress she incurred after they 
cancelled at such short notice.
background
In August  2018,  Miss H took out a home insurance  policy online through her bank. In doing so, 
she answered a series of questions. She then made a claim following a fire at her home in 
Northern Ireland. Lloyds  started dealing with her claim  then discovered shed failed to disclose 
a criminal conviction dating back to 2013. So, they avoided her policy and refused her claim. 
(This means they cancelled the policy as if it had never existed.) So, Miss H and her two 
young children  had to leave the alternative accommodation Lloyds had been providing at short  
notice and move into a homeless shelter. Lloyds  kept the premiums Miss H had paid and told 
her they might also ask her to repay their costs. (These were later written off.)
Miss H complained to Lloyds who maintained  that their decision was reasonable. So, she came  
to us. Our investigator  thought  Miss H had failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. He said Lloyds decision to avoid her policy and refuse her claim was 
reasonable in the circumstances. Miss H didnt  agree so the case has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  law here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act (or 
CIDRA). This says that a consumer has to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when they enter  into a consumer insurance contract (take out an 
insurance policy). And if a consumer fails to do this, an insurer will have certain remedies  
available if theyd have  acted differently without the misrepresentation.
The standard of care required  is that of a reasonable consumer. But this is subject to the 
characteristics of a particular consumer the insurer is aware  of. And when considering 
whether a consumer  took reasonable care or not there are certain things that may need to 
be taken into account. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers  questions were.
Circumstances of Miss Hs application
In the course  of her application,  Miss H was asked a series of questions. And Lloyds used 
her answers to decide whether to accept or deny her application for insurance.  Lloyds  hasnt 
been able to provide a screen  shot of the actual question as it was set out at the time of Miss 
Hs application, but she has provided this. Ive looked at this and accept this is how the 
screen appeared. Ive also looked at the questions Miss H wouldve been asked. And Lloyds 
has provided the answers Miss H gave in response.
Lloyds has said Miss H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation by 
answering the following question incorrectly: Do you or anyone living with you have any 
criminal convictions (other than motoring  offences)? The question is restricted  to a yes or 
no response. I can see that Miss H answered No.
Ref: DRN04608772Its not disputed  that Miss H answered the question about her conviction incorrectly  because  
her criminal conviction wasnt  fully spent when she applied for the policy.  So, she did make  a 
misrepresentation.
Was Miss Hs misrepresentation careless?
Miss H has told us she completed her application by following  the instructions on screen. 
She confirmed that she was asked whether she had any criminal convictions.  And she said 
that the instructions on the screen  directed her, via a link, to the website of a charitable 
organisation that customers could use to check whether their convictions are spent  using its 
convictions calculator.  She told us that they had directed me to use and provided direct 
links and I followed  the exact instructions  and links provided  by my insurer to complete my 
application. Miss H told us that after she entered her details, she was told that her 
conviction was fully spent. And she went ahead with her application on that basis. So, she 
thinks she did take reasonable  care.
The insurer  accepts that their website did, and does,  suggest that customers can refer to the site 
of the charitable  organisation  to check its convictions calculator.  So, Ive looked  at the insurers 
website. And it did, and does, provide a link to the site in question.  But  what  it actually said was: 
If youre not sure, information about  spent  convictions can be obtained from a number of 
organisations such as... Here it provides the name of the site and a link. But it was not a direct 
instruction to use that link or that site. And the site was only mentioned  as being one option.
Once into the site, it stated on its front page  that: This calculator establishes  when criminal 
convictions become  spent under the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974, as it applies in 
England and Wales. So, I think this makes it clear  that that particular site only applied to 
England and Wales.  Using an online archival  app, Ive also looked  at the site as it was in 
August 2018,  when  Miss H applied online.  It said that the calculator applied to England  & 
Wales then too. 
So, if Miss H did use the convictions  calculator when she made her application, it was clear 
that the site related to the law of England & Wales.  Whereas, she lived in Northern Ireland. 
And, I think a reasonable consumer shouldve realised it wasnt appropriate for them to use it 
if they didnt live in England or Wales. Miss Hs conviction would have been spent in England  
and Wales, which is why the calculator she used said it was. But I think  Miss H should have 
realised this didnt  apply to her and that she needed  to check the situation  in Northern 
Ireland. So, I think by confirming she didnt have  any criminal convictions,  Miss H failed to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
Ive considered the point Miss H raised about  having  some issues  with her vision,  but this 
wasnt something she mentioned to Lloyds when she completed the application. Or 
something she told us when she complained. In view of this, and how clear  it was that the 
calculator only applied to England & Wales, I still think Miss H didnt take reasonable care.
Were Lloyds  actions reasonable?
When we consider whether the actions  of a business are fair and reasonable, we take into 
account the relevant law and regulations, regulatory rules, guidance and standards,  and codes 
of practice. If its appropriate, well also consider what was good  industry  practice at the time.
Ref: DRN04608773Lloyds have told us that if Miss H had provided  the correct information  when she applied  for 
insurance, they wouldnt have offered her a policy in the first place. Ive looked  at the 
information they use in deciding whether to offer a policy. This is the insurers  underwriting  
criteria. In relation  to new business, it states:  If the customer or anyone living with them has 
a conviction and it is not spentthe customer cannot have a new building  or contents 
policy. Its the customers responsibility to go away  and check.  I also see that the question  
about convictions falls under the section Eligibility on the statement of fact.
So, Im satisfied that Lloyds were  acting reasonably in avoiding  Miss Hs policy and refusing 
her claim on the basis that without  her misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered her a home  
insurance policy.
Ive also noted  Miss Hs reference to declaring her conviction when taking out her car 
insurance policy. But this was before she took out her home insurance policy and at that 
time, she probably didnt  think  the conviction  was spent,  as it was still less than five years 
since she received  it. So, I dont think this information is relevant.
Short notice of cancellation and related  trouble and upset
Miss H also complained that her policy was cancelled with very short  notice. And Ive 
considered what  she told us about her immediate circumstances following the cancellation  of 
the policy, leaving her without accommodation.  Lloyds have said that they have to 
investigate each claim and once a decision has been taken to cancel a policy,  any claims on 
it immediately cease,  including alternative  accommodation. So, while  I sympathise, Lloyds 
were entitled  to avoid  a policy that wasnt valid. And this is why Miss Hs claim appeared to 
be cancelled  with such short notice. Lloyds  could perhaps have given Miss H a bit more time 
to make arrangements for her accommodation  and Ive commented briefly on this below. 
As her misrepresentation was only careless, Lloyds would normally have had to refund Miss Hs 
premium. But equally, they also had the right to recover what theyd already paid out to Miss H 
on the claim. And they did tell her they were considering whether to pursue her for this amount.
I think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to keep the premium in this case.  Because they never  
should have provided cover  at all but still had to deal with the claim. And  as Ive already 
mentioned - theyve written off the balance of the amount they paid out on Miss Hs claim, 
when they could have pursed Miss H for it. So, I dont think  theyve done  anything wrong here.
Lloyds could have  given Miss H more time after they avoided  the policy but given the write-
off, I dont think it needs to do anything further here.
my final decision
My final decision is that for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2020.
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0460877