K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading  as QuickQuid)  provided  him with poor 
service when he fell into financial  difficulties and offered him a further loan. He wants  to be 
compensated for the time he has had to spend  on this issue  and for the inconvenience it has 
caused him.
background
Mr N took out a loan with the business in May 2017  for £400. The repayments were due in 3 
monthly instalments.  Mr N repaid the first instalment but was unable  to repay the second  and 
third instalments as they became due and QuickQuid transferred the account to a third party 
debt collector to attempt  to recover  the money from Mr N. 
Mr N paid a token payment of £1 to the debt collector as he was experiencing financial 
difficulties. QuickQuid say that this partial repayment was communicated to it by the debt 
collector as a full repayment. QuickQuid sent a message to Mr N confirming his account  was 
repaid in full on 12 May 2018.  Mr N called the business to query what  had happened  as he 
knew he had not paid the debt in full. Mr N says he was told the debt was paid in full and he 
says he wasnt able to make a complaint even though he asked to.
On 14 May 2018 Mr N received a promotional email  offering him a discount on a further loan 
which he says was distressing because he was in financial difficulties  and repaying  an 
outstanding debt.
Our adjudicator thought that the business had been  wrong to offer Mr N further  loans when 
he was in financial difficulty and it had not properly  dealt with his complaint that the loan had 
not been settled in full as it had recorded. Our adjudicator thought that this had caused Mr N 
inconvenience and upset and the business should  pay him £200 to compensate  for this. 
The business didnt  agree and replied to say in summary that it discovered the error on the 
15 May 2018 and sent a message to Mr N to confirm the position.  It says that the email 
offering a further loan was sent in error  as it was an automated email generated by the 
incorrect information that the loan had been  paid in full. It was unlikely that Mr N would  have 
successfully had another loan given the outstanding debt and so it didnt agree that it had 
done anything  wrong.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked  through  the information provided and I can see that the business incorrectly 
recorded that Mr Ns loan had been  settled in full and confirmed this in an email  to Mr N.
Mr N says that he called the business to query what had happened straightaway. The 
business has been asked for a copy of the call recording or a transcript  but it does not want 
to provide this. Mr N says that during the call the representative was rude to him and 
wouldnt allow him to make a complaint. He said he was passed back to the debt collector 
and he was again told that his account was paid in full. I have no reason to doubt what Mr N 
says about the call and I think it is likely that he was given  confusing information about  the 
debt and he wasnt able to make a complaint about the problem. Mr N says he made a 
Ref: DRN05033842number of calls to the business and the debt collector to try to sort the matter  out and I can 
imagine this was time consuming and inconvenient for him.
Mr N then received a promotional email  offering  him another loan. I agree with the 
adjudicator that this was inappropriate.  In the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook under 
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook, it states  the following under 3.8.2R Unfair business 
practices:
A firm must not in a financial  promotion  or a communication  with a customer:
(3) promote credit where the firm knows, or has reason to believe, that the agreement
would be unsuitable  for that customer in the light of the customers  financial circumstances
or, if known,  intended use of the credit.
Although the business says the email was sent in error this doesnt alter the position  that it 
knew Mr N was in financial difficulties and he had been unable  to make  repayments  on his 
last loan. It had done  nothing to ensure this promotion was suitable  for Mr N. I can 
appreciate how upsetting  Mr N must have found  this, especially in the context of trying  to 
find out what had happened with the payments to his account.
Mr N has been caused inconvenience because of this issue.  He has had to contact the 
business and the third party debt collector  on several occasions and the information  he has 
received has not met his needs. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that in order to compensate  Mr N for the trouble and upset the 
business should pay Mr N £200.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  pay Mr N £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019 .
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0503384