K820x#14complaint
B, a limited  company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has closed its account  without 
providing appropriate notice.
background
HSBC wrote to B to say that it was carrying out a safeguard exercise to help prevent fraud 
and financial  crime. It told B that it needed information about  its business. When  it did not 
receive this it sent a notice to close the account. This was extended to allow  further time. But 
HSBC says it did not get the information  it required  and it closed the account.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he thought B 
had been given a reasonable opportunity to provide all the information.  And that HSBC had 
explained the consequences of not doing so. HSBC had provided notice of its intention  to 
close the account. As B is a limited company HSBC sent the closing balance  by cheque  to 
B. HSBC said it had issued a closing statement. But he asked that HSBC send B another 
copy as B said it had not received this.
B did not agree. It said that it wanted to keep  the account open and the director  was 
frustrated at the difficulties he faced. B said we should be tackling those problems and the 
delays he experienced when making calls to HSBC. We should not just accept what it said.  
B said HSBC ought to have put its requirements  in writing. And B disputed  that proper notice 
of the closure  was given. The director went on holiday and when he came back  the account 
was closed. Bs premises were not open  while the director was away  and no attempt was 
made to contact him on his mobile  number.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. We dont regulate  financial businesses and 
so we dont have a role, for example, in saying what  processes  HSBC  should follow.  Here 
HSBC had established a process to ensure it complied with regulatory requirements. And I 
think its fair to say that it had set a high standard of information gathering  and verification.
I dont doubt that the director of B found this a frustrating  process.  He was first asked for 
information on 5 February  2018. And HSBC  has confirmed  that hes submitted forms on a 
number of occasions. It has shown it wrote  to B each time to say further  information  was 
needed.
Ref: DRN09836712Im going  to focus here on the later submissions as follows from HSBCs records:
-11 June 2018- HSBC  says online  forms were  submitted
-12 June 2018- a letter  saying further information  was sent to B
-13 June 2018- the forms were submitted again
-14 June 2018- a further letter was sent saying that information is needed
-19 June 2018- HSBC  notes it called B at 12:59  and was told the director was too 
busy. Hes made  a note recording that he called back at 14:55 and was on hold for 
20 minutes and could not wait any longer.
-29 June 2018  - HSBC  notes  that B has been  made aware that the address of the 
director on the safeguard  forms  does  match  that on the main system. And that he 
needs to update this and provide identification  and verification.  It was noted that hed 
said he would sent this in after 18:00 when his business was closed. It has also been 
clarified that in error his accountant had been  described as the controller  for the 
business.
-16 August 2018-  HSBC notes that the identify and verification information  remains 
outstanding. It documents three  attempts  to call him over 17 August and on 20 
August 2018 with no success.
-24 August 2018-  the account  is closed
-28 August 2018-  the director calls to complain. It is confirmed that one issue  is with 
the discrepancy to his personal address.
-29 August 2018-  a cheque for the closing balance  is sent to B.
 
Although the director says he thought  he had complied with the information requests HSBC 
does not agree. And it says it told him he would need to change  the address it held for him. I 
know he found that difficult to understand when hed put the new address on the safeguard 
form. It does seem  though  that the issue was also with him providing  identification and 
verification.
There is a dispute  about what the director says he was told which  may have been the result 
of a misunderstanding. The difficulty is, as Ive explained above, that resolving  this is not 
going to change HSBCs  decision about  whether to operate  an account for B. Its shown that 
it gave two months notice  to close the account  on 19 April 2018 and extended the deadline  
on 29 May 2018. 
HSBC is entitled  to make a commercial decision about whether or not to offer banking  
facilities. Thats not something wed generally interfere with and its made clear that it wont 
be looking  again at its decision about  closing Bs account.
Im afraid HSBC did not have to issue any other notice or wait until it could speak to the 
director again before it closed  the account.  And also while  I appreciate the ongoing 
difficulties in providing the information  and the frustration for the director of waiting on calls,  
B in practice had six months to do so and made multiple attempts. So I dont find HSBC  has 
made a mistake in closing  the account  for B and sending it a cheque with for the balance  in 
line with its normal practice. I appreciate that the director of B will be disappointed with my 
assessment.
Ref: DRN09836713my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0983671