K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains Scottish Widows Limited failed to make him aware of a potential  higher rate 
tax liability on a withdrawal from his pension plan.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Js complaint in my provisional decisions.  Ill summarise it 
again here.
Mr J wanted to make a withdrawal from his pension plan with Scottish Widows. He was in 
discussions with his financial adviser  and Scottish Widows as to the best way to facilitate a 
withdrawal of around £60,000.
He decided to transfer his current pension  policy, which was in a capped  drawdown plan to a 
flexible access plan to facilitate the withdrawal  of £60,000. Scottish Widows deducted basic  
rate tax at source and paid Mr J a net payment of £48,000.
HMRC then notified Mr J of an outstanding tax liability  of around £10,278. Mr J was 
extremely unhappy that Scottish  Widows  had failed  to bring a potential  higher rate tax 
liability to his attention at the time he made  the withdrawal. He maintains had he known he 
would not have withdrawn the £60,000 and would  have  made  other arrangements. The 
whole matter caused him a great  deal of stress and worry. 
Scottish Widows  say some of Mr Js pension was already  in payment and they have 
deducted the correct amount of tax in accordance with the tax code provided by HMRC  in 
July 2015. There  have been  no further  updates to Mr Js tax code  since.
Scottish Widows  applied  the same basic rate tax code to Mr Js withdrawal of £60,000, 
deducted 20% at source, and paid Mr J a net payment of £48,000. They explain there is no 
distinction in their tax responsibility whether a payment is deemed income or ad-hoc and 
they are required to treat the withdrawal  in the same way. That is to say, they apply the 
prevailing tax code supplied by HMRC  and make the appropriate deduction.
Scottish Widows  have  supplied telephone  recordings of two conversations with both Mr J 
and his adviser. They spoke with his advisory business on 20 September  2016. During this 
conversation, the advisory business  asked  for a valuation and the best way to facilitate a 
withdrawal from Mr Js pension plan.
The Scottish Widows representative explained Mr J had an uncrystallised pension  fund of 
£21,009.36 and a crystallised fund of £142,616.81  giving a total fund value of £163,626.17.  
He went on to confirm  the plan was in a capped drawdown facility with a maximum GAD limit 
of £10,000 per annum, as Mr J was currently taking around £7,500  there was some  
headroom for a further withdrawal. The representative went on to explain if Mr J required a 
greater sum,  he could move his plan into a flexible access  arrangement. There was also a 
possibility of taking  some tax-free cash from his uncrystallised funds. The adviser  asked 
about the process and if Scottish  Widows required an advisory service or if Mr J could deal 
directly with Scottish Widows. The representative explained either was possible and the 
adviser said he would approach Mr J to determine  whether he wanted to deal directly with 
Scottish Widows, or go through their advisory  service.
On 26 September,  Mr J contacted Scottish Widows  to discuss  withdrawing  £60,000.  He 
understood he would need  to move his pension plan into a flexible drawdown arrangement 
Ref: DRN04690132and asked for the appropriate forms to be emailed  to him. During  the call Scottish Widows 
say their representative made it clear Mr J could be subject to emergency tax on the 
withdrawal and Mr J indicated he intended to let his financial adviser look over them  first.
Scottish Widows  say they emailed the request forms on 6 October 2016 and they were 
returned from Mr Js financial advisers  email address. Mr Js request was processed and a 
sum of £60,000 paid to Mr J on 12 October 2016.
Scottish Widows  say they think Mr J should  have  been  aware of a potential tax liability 
because; they indicated  emergency tax could be payable, the size of the withdrawal and 
because his adviser had been  involved to some degree in the process.  They point out the 
transfer forms highlight  the need to ensure moving  to flexible access  is right for the customer 
and they should seek financial advice first. They further point out they are not tax experts 
and are unable  to give any tax advice to their customers. 
Our adjudicator looked into this matter for Mr J. He listened to the telephone calls and 
considered the information provided by both parties carefully. He felt it more  likely than not 
Mr J ought to have  been  reasonably aware  a withdrawal of £60,000 would give rise to a tax 
liability. He felt on balance  this was because Mr J was in discussion with his financial 
adviser, had a pension in payment, which was subject  to income tax deductions, had been 
told by the Scottish  Widows representative that an emergency tax liability may arise. He 
could see Mr J felt very strongly  that Scottish  Widows had a duty of care towards  him but he 
didnt feel this extended to bespoke tax advice. On balance, he thought  Scottish Widows had 
acted fairly  and reasonably and so he didnt  ask them to do anything further. 
Mr J disagreed he feels Scottish Widows have failed to treat him fairly in accordance  with the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys Treating Customers Fairly  especially with regard to Outcome 3 
and so he asked  for an ombudsman  review.
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I looked at all the information  provided by 
both parties afresh and the additional  submission from Mr J.
In my provisional decision,I  said I appreciated Mr Js strength of feeling on this matter  and I 
could understand  the arrival  of an unexpected  tax demand would be rather worrying.  What I 
have to consider  is whether Scottish Widows  failed  in any duty of care towards Mr J and if 
their actions have been  fair and reasonable. In reaching a decision on what  is fair and 
reasonable I have  taken  into account  the relevant  law, the regulators rules  guidance and 
standards, and any codes  of practice and industry  standards.
Mr J has said if he had known he might be subject  to a further tax charge, he would  have 
made a different decision. He says he may have  borrowed the money  rather than withdrawn  
it from his pension. He thinks  Scottish  Widows failed in their duty of care to him and this 
caused him a financial  loss.
I looked at the circumstances  before  Mr J made his withdrawal; he already had his pension 
in payment and was aware there was a tax implication, as basic rate tax was already being  
deducted at source.  
It was clear from the information  provided that Mr J was seeking the best way to go about 
making a significant  withdrawal from his pension plan. To do so it seems he had been in 
discussions with his financial adviser  and directly with Scottish Widows. I listened to the 
Ref: DRN04690133telephone call between  the parties. In the first call, Mr Js IFA speaks to Scottish Widows. He 
mentions that Mr J wants access to around £50,000 relatively quickly and asks whether he 
(as the advisor) needs to complete then withdrawal or if Mr J can complete it directly  with 
Scottish Widows. He was told Mr J could proceed either way. In the second  telephone  call 
between Mr J and Scottish  Widows, Mr J discussed how to access  the form to enable  him to 
make a withdrawal of around £60,000. Scottish  Widows made  Mr J aware that the 
withdrawal he wanted to make may be subject to emergency tax and Mr J confirms  his 
adviser had already made him aware  of that. 
I said its important to note that Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA) has set out their 
expectations and the responsibilities, of a firm to a consumer, when making withdrawals  
from a pension plan.  These are set out in a set of rules  and guidance in the FCA Handbook 
known as COBS  19.7  Retirement  Risk Warnings.
Specifically COBS 19.7.8 states the first step is to ask the retail client  whether they have 
received pensions guidance  or regulated advice. If the client  is unsure, the firm must explain 
this is an important decision and should encourage the retail client to seek  regulated advice 
to understand  their options.
I appreciate Scottish  Widows have pointed  out that Mr J confirmed he had spoken to his IFA 
and the email request for the flexible access application form came from an account at his 
IFAs firm. It was also returned  from the same IFA firm. But, either way I said I hadnt  seen 
any evidence written  or in telephone calls to confirm Scottish Widows complied with this 
obligation.
I also said I hadnt seen  any evidence from Mr J that he confirmed one way or the other if he 
had or hadnt  received any financial advice in this matter. As there is no explicit  confirmation, 
the regulators rules  say it is the firms  responsibility to give the appropriate retirement  risk 
warnings and to identify the main risk factors relevant to each pension decumulation product 
it offers.  A firm should also prepare  questions to enable  it to identify the presence of risk 
factors for different  retail  clients. There are a number of risk factors to consider and this 
includes the tax implications for the retail client.
I understand the Scottish Widows adviser explained a withdrawal of this size would be 
subject to emergency tax and went to say Mr J may be able to claim this back on a P55 
form. But, a withdrawal of the amount Mr J was seeking would also give rise to a higher rate 
liability and I cant see any evidence this was discussed.
The rules  that apply to firms when retail  clients  withdraw money from a pension are very 
clear and its incumbent on the firm to ensure  the client is aware of risk factors  that may 
apply to the withdrawal  being made.  Im not persuaded  Scottish Widows met their 
obligations as set out by the regulator.
So although  Im in agreement that the appropriate warnings dont seem to have been given 
based upon the information Ive seen and the telephone calls Ive listened to Im required to 
the decided if I think this led to a financial loss Mr J was unaware of. In other  words  was the 
additional tax demand something  he couldnt  reasonably be expected  to have  foreseen.
I said where the information I have is unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here,  Im 
required to look at a balance of probabilities. That is to say, what  I think  is most  likely  to have 
happened.
Ref: DRN04690134Whilst Mr J has pointed out he didnt  go through an advisory process there  are a number of 
interventions made by his IFA and information he provided during his telephone  calls with 
Scottish Widows  that made  it clear  he did have a number of discussions with his IFA 
regarding this withdrawal.
His IFA made it clear during the telephone call to Scottish Widows this withdrawal was to 
purchase a property. It would be for around  £50,000 plus and Mr J needed the money  quite 
quickly.  He wanted  to know if Mr J needed  to go through the advice process or if he could 
deal directly with Scottish Widows.
When Mr J contacted Scottish Widows he asked for the Flexible Access  form to be sent to 
his IFAs email address  and told the representative  he would get his IFA to look over the 
form. The form was also returned  to Scottish  Widows from the same IFA email address.
Prior to completing the form Mr J had been  told by the Scottish Widows representative that 
the payment would be subject to emergency tax and he may be able to reclaim  some of this. 
Mr J confirmed his adviser  had made him aware of this.
So, although  Mr J didnt  make the withdrawal on an advised basis,  given  the amount of 
£60,000 would in itself, regardless of any other income, give rise to a higher rate tax liability I 
said I thought  it more likely than not during the number of discussions with his IFA and after 
they looked over the form and emailed it back Mr J would have been or ought to have been 
reasonably aware  there would be a higher rate tax liability.
I said I was persuaded  if the emergency tax had been applied  from the onset  it would have 
been equal to or greater than the total amount deducted. As Scottish Widows had Mr Js tax 
code, only basic rate was deducted at source  with a further liability  to pay. On balance,  I 
dont think Scottish Widows has caused Mr J a financial loss here but Im persuaded they 
havent met their regulatory obligations satisfactorily  and this has caused  Mr J distress  and 
inconvenience for which he should be compensated. 
I said I proposed to uphold this complaint  in part and direct that Scottish Widows Plc should 
pay:
£750 for distress  and inconvenience 
I invited both Scottish Widows and Mr J to respond.
Scottish Widows  accepted the findings  in my provisional decision and agreed to pay £750 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused Mr J. 
Mr J had no further comments  to make.
my findings
I thank both Mr J and Scottish Widows for their responses to my provisional decision.  Ive re-
considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Ive not received any new information in response  to my 
provisional decision or any comments on my reasoning  and findings.  It follows that Ive 
Ref: DRN04690135reached the same conclusions for the same reasons as I did in my provisional decision and 
which I set out above  again.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I uphold this complaint in part and I direct  Scottish  Widows 
Limited to pay:
£750 for the distress and inconvenience  this matter has caused Mr J.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0469013