K820x#14complaint
Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L complained that Virgin Money plc didnt give them  notice about the 
end of their fixed rate mortgage product. They also said that the end date hadnt been clear  
when they took out the product.
background
Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L took out a Virgin  mortgage in 2012.  They  chose a two-year  product 
which ended on 1 May 2014.  A couple  of months before that date,  they chose a replacement  
product to start when the first product ended. They  signed the loan acceptance, confirming 
theyd received, reviewed  and agreed to the offer details. The new two-year  product would 
end on 1 May 2016.
In April 2016, Mr B spoke to Virgin. He told Virgin  that hed been  online and had selected  
another two-year product. Virgin sent an Offer which said the new product would end on 1 
August 2018.  This letter also confirmed the remaining term of the mortgage.  Again, they 
accepted the loan,  confirming theyd received, reviewed and agreed to the offer details.
On 3 April 2018,  Virgin wrote to Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L, saying that their current mortgage 
deal would end on 1 August and the rate would  then be the standard  variable rate of 4.79%.
On 11 July, Virgin wrote again  to Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L. It said that from 1 August, the 
interest rate would increase  from 1.69%  to 4.79% because their current  product was ending.  
Virgin letter  provided  contact details for any questions.  
On 2 August,  Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L complained  to Virgin because a higher  payment had 
been direct  debited from the bank account. This was £1,444.82  higher than the previous 
month. They said they hadnt been given any notice about the mortgage  product ending. 
They also said that when  theyd previously changed product, theyd been advised that the 
product end date would be June  2019.
Virgin refunded  the higher August payment, and set up a payment holiday for that month, to 
give the borrowers time to get a new product in place.
But Virgin didnt uphold the complaint raised by Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L. Virgin  said it held  
signed copies  of their mortgage acceptance declarations, in which  theyd accepted the 
details in the offers. It sent copies.  Virgin said it didnt agree that it had either  failed to notify  
Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L, or that it had incorrectly advised them that the product would 
continue until June  2019.
Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L told Virgin they didnt agree for three reasons:
-They said the phone call in April 2016 to discuss the new rate had been muddled, 
and Mr B1 had written  down June 2019  as the date to renegotiate the product. They 
said it showed a lack of empathy to suggest  that by signing  terms and conditions, 
theyd be liable   because they said in reality no regular customer  in the world would 
read the terms and conditions.
-They argued that every other company they dealt with got in touch by email, text or 
phone, and not by post. They  told Virgin that they believed the only reason Virgin 
Ref: DRN04869122relied on posts was because  Virgin knew it was unreliable and would result in more  
money for the company  through subterfuge.
-They said the lack of empathy from Virgin was astounding. They  argued that instead 
of strict  rule and regulations, Virgin should have  a spirit of wishing to help its 
customers, not just grab as much  money as possible.
Virgin didnt agree:
-It pointed out that the call in April 2016  had come about because Mr B was ringing  to 
check his online application  for the two-year product had gone through. And at no 
point had the adviser said the two year product  would end in June 2019,  which  was 
the end date for the mortgage  term, not the product. Virgin sent Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms 
L a copy of the call recording as proof.
-Virgin said it would consider email, text and phone calls in future,  but it wasnt 
something it currently offered when  a mortgage  product  matured.
-Virgin said it was sorry the borrowers felt it hadnt been  empathetic,  but there was a 
reasonable expectation that a customer would manage their mortgage and finances 
in an acceptable  manner.
Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L werent satisfied and complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said hed seen letters dated 3 April and11  
July in which Virgin informed Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L that the fixed rate would end on 1 
August. He noted  that theyd said they hadnt received these letters,  but couldnt say that 
Virgin hadnt tried to inform them.
The adjudicator also pointed out that the details  of the mortgage  payments were set out on 
the new product  offer letter dated  22 April 2016.  This showed that the fixed  rate would  end 
on 1 August 2016, and the mortgage term remaining was three  years  and one month.
And the adjudicator also said that in the phone call in April 2016, Mr B had told the Virgin 
adviser that hed applied  online for a two-year fixed rate. The adjudicator noted that the 
borrowers had already  completed this before, in 2014 when they chose another two year 
fixed product which expired on 1 May 2016.  He was satisfied that they should have been 
aware that the overall mortgage had a different end date from that of the fixed rate. The 
mortgage product  theyd  taken out was for two years,  and there were three years and one 
month left on the mortgage term.
Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L werent satisfied. They said:
-Virgin hadnt informed  them that the mortgage payment was about  to increase. They 
said the adjudicator  might think Virgin had tried to inform them, but the adjudicator 
couldnt prove that. They  said it wasnt acceptable that they stood  to lose a huge 
amount of money.
-They said their argument  was strengthened  by the fact that Virgin  wouldnt explain 
why it wouldnt send  text or email  reminders. They argued  that Virgin refused to do 
this so it could  charge  them the standard variable  rate, which  was dishonest.
Ref: DRN04869123my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Offer documentation from 2016
On 22 April 2016, Virgin issued an Offer  of Variation of Loan.  
Section 4 of this document  set out:
This secured mortgage is based on the following interest rate periods:
-A fixed rate of 1.69%  until 1 August 2018
followed by
-Virgin Money plcs Standard Variable Rate, currently  4.79%, which will apply for the 
remainder of the term of the mortgage.  
Section 6 of this document,  headed  What you will need to pay each month, set out: 
-26 payments at a fixed rate of 1.69%      £792.72
followed by
-11 payments at Virgin Money plcs Standard Variable Rate, currently 4.79%   
£2,241.02
Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L accepted this offer and the mortgage was moved onto this basis.
In their complaint  form to this service, Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L argued that there isnt a 
regular customer in the world who reads through the terms and conditions.   But Mr B1, Mr 
B2 and Ms L were accepting a legally binding contract. If they chose not to read what  they 
were accepting, that wasnt Virgins  fault.  Its a borrowers responsibility to ensure they know  
and agree to whatever contract they accept.  I find that Virgin  provided  clear documentation 
to show that the fixed rate product would only last until 1 August 2018 and that after that, the 
mortgage would revert to the higher, standard variable rate. So I dont consider Virgin was at 
fault.
Notifying customers about the end of the fixed product
Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L say that they didnt receive either of the two letters which  Virgin sent 
on 3 April and 11 July 2018. 
I note that Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L have argued that the adjudicator  might  think Virgin had 
tried to inform them, but the adjudicator couldnt prove that Virgin had done so. But its not 
the role of this service  automatically to find in favour  of consumers unless  we have absolute 
proof that a bank  has, for example, posted letters which the consumers can be proved to 
have received. This service is impartial, and where  evidence conflicts, as here, I make my 
decision on what I consider is most  likely to have  happened. In this case, I find that its more 
likely than not that Virgin did sent the letters of 3 April and 11 July 2018. 
I accept that Virgin sent these two letters, which were  part of its normal computerised 
process. There are copies on file, and I dont consider its at all likely that these  letters were 
produced but never posted.  I find that Virgin cant be held responsible for postal issues.
I dont agree with Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L that Virgin used post, instead of email,  text or 
phone, deliberately in order to move them to the higher, standard variable rate. Lenders  are 
Ref: DRN04869124entitled to choose to communicate with borrowers  by post, and it could  well be argued that 
post is a more reliable  and secure method of communication than other  options.  
I have also seen nothing  to indicate  that Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L had previously notified 
Virgin that, for example, their property  address  was in any way unsafe  or insecure, and 
might be particularly unlikely to receive  post  for example if they had a shared mailbox. And 
as Ive set out above, I find that Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L ought reasonably to have known 
anyway that their fixed rate product was about  to end. 
I consider it was reasonable to expect  them to have got in touch  with Virgin  in advance of 1 
August 2018 if they hadnt received any communication.  They had also completed  a rate 
change before, so they were aware  of the process.
Complaint that Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L lost a huge amount of money
In Mr Bs January 2019 email to this service, he said that he stood to lose a huge  amount of 
money, which wasnt acceptable.
But I note that Virgin refunded the large  1 August 2018 payment straightaway.  It also set up 
a payment holiday for August  2018 to give the customers time to set up a replacement fixed 
rate deal. I find that this was very fair.
And I note that Mr B1, Mr B2 and Ms L paid off their Virgin mortgage at the start of 
September 2018. So I dont agree with their argument that in January 2019  they stood to 
lose a huge amount of money.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B1, Mr B2 and 
Ms L to accept or reject  my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0486912