K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt completed the repairs  to his car to a 
standard hes happy with in connection with a claim he made under his motor  insurance 
policy.
background 
Mr S has a car insurance policy underwritten by Aviva. His car was involved in an incident  
and required  repairs to one of the doors. Mr S contacted Aviva to make a claim on his policy. 
Aviva agreed the damage was covered so it arranged for repairs  to be undertaken.
Mr S wasnt  happy with the repairs, specifically the respraying of one of the doors, saying the 
colour didnt match the rest of the car. He contacted  Aviva and it arranged for one of its 
engineers to inspect  the vehicle. The engineer concluded that the respray had been  
completed to a good standard  and considered it commercially  acceptable.  Mr S remained 
unhappy, questioning the independence of the engineers  inspection.   
He also put forward  several suggestions  for ways  Aviva  could  settle the claim. One was to 
buy the car off him and the other  was to pay for a full respray  which he said hed been  
quoted £5,000 to have undertaken. At this stage, Aviva declined  these suggestions.
Aviva agreed to appoint  an independent  engineer to undertake a further inspection.  The 
report stated that on initial  inspection it was difficult to detect any difference  in the colour  of 
the paintwork.  But it went on to say that the resprayed door was very slightly  darker and that 
the match could  be improved upon.
Aviva spoke to the garage which had undertaken the repairs and it confirmed it would be 
happy to carry  out the remediation work. Mr S declined this offer as he said hed lost faith in 
the garage. So Aviva arranged for one of its most senior engineers  to undertake  an 
inspection.
This engineer made a commercial decision  to offer to buy the car back off Mr S but he 
declined the offer saying he now didnt want to sell it. He mentioned the £5,000 for the 
respray again and Aviva confirmed it would consider this if Mr S provided a written quote. 
Without this it wouldnt  consider  this option further.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator  
concluded, in summary,  that the various  options Aviva had put to Mr S to settle the claim 
were fair. Initially Mr S accepted one of the options  but later changed his mind and asked an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that the repairs  to Mr S car havent been carried  out to a standard that 
Mr S is happy with. The independent  engineers  report concluded that there was a slight  mis-
match in the colour of the resprayed door when compared to the original paintwork. And 
Aviva has accepted this and made  a commercial  decision to resolve  this issue. So theres  no 
need for me to make a decision  about this.
Ref: DRN07753302Whats still in dispute though is whether the various options Avivas  offered to resolve the 
issue are fair. Its offered the following options, saying:  
it will consider paying  for a full respray if Mr S provides  written  evidence of the 
estimate. If this option is pursued  and Aviva  accepts the estimate, it will provide a 
hire car of a similar size while the work  is undertaken, or
it will keep  the car and pay Mr S £6,995, or
it will allow Mr S to buy back the car and would  pay him £2,098.50
In addition to him choosing  one of the options above, it will also pay him an additional £150 
in compensation.
Ill consider each of these  in turn.
full respray
The independent inspection said that while there was a slight mis-match  in the paintwork, 
the quote of £5,000 was a grossly  excessive price.  It went on to say that the car wouldnt 
need that level of rectification work. 
From this Im satisfied its reasonable for Aviva to ask for a written quote before it will 
consider this option proposed by Mr S.
Overall Im satisfied this is a reasonable option as I wouldnt  expect Aviva  to settle this 
without evidence of the actual costs  involved. If Mr S decides to pursue this option and Aviva 
accepts the estimate  I think its reasonable that it would offer a hire car of a similar  size for 
the duration of the repairs.
Aviva keeps the car
Mr S paid £6,950  for the car in September 2018.  Hed driven 2,370 miles in it by the time of 
the incident in January 2019.  Aviva meant  to offer to buy the car from him for £6,950  but 
mistakenly offered  £6,995 instead.  Its agreed to honour this higher amount.
Bearing in mind the miles Mr S has covered I would expect the car to have experienced 
some wear  and tear and for Aviva to have made  a correspondent reduction in the offer to 
reflect this. So, in offering him more than he paid for the car, despite the miles covered, I 
conclude that its offer is reasonable.
Mr S buys  back the car
Avivas said it could  keep  the car and dispose  of it for salvage.  Its said it would achieve 
approximately 70% of the value by doing this. That means it would receive £4,896.50.
Its offered  to let Mr S keep the car and it would  pay him the difference between the value 
and the amount it would  achieve for salvage.  This would mean Mr S would retain the car and 
receive £2,098.50.  He could then use this money  as he wished and that may include 
independently arranging a respray. And I think this is also a reasonable option.
 
compensation
From the independent inspection Im not persuaded that the mis-match in colours is 
significant. The independent inspector comments that, in his opinion, in 90% of occasions  
the repairs would be considered to be acceptable. But I accept that Mr S didnt consider that 
they were and its clear  he feels strongly about  this.
Ref: DRN07753303I think Aviva  has been reasonable in the approach  its adopted in trying  to resolve the issue.  
But I accept that the repairs  not being  completed  to a standard  that Mr S is happy  with will 
have caused him some  trouble and upset. Overall, I think  the £150 Aviva  has offered him is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
summary
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think that the options Aviva  has offered Mr S to settle this 
issue are reasonable  and Im not going  to ask it to do any more. Ill merely leave it to Mr S to 
let Aviva know which option he wishes to accept.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019 .
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0775330