K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Great Lakes Insurance SEs recovery agent didnt correctly  advise him 
on the problems  with his car when he called for roadside assistance under his motor 
breakdown policy.  He says this resulted  in further  damage to his car. 
background
Mr B has breakdown assistance underwritten by Great Lakes.  He called for help when his 
car developed a fault and went into limp mode on a journey in January 2019.  A recovery  
agent attended to Mr Bs car. The recovery agent  diagnosed Mr Bs car had various  issues 
relating to fault lights that were illuminated on the display  these  included  the engine 
management light (EML) and the diesel particulate filter (DPF) light.
Great Lakes says the recovery agent  cleared the fault lights from the display. Mr B said not 
all the lights were cleared  and he was told this was not a fix for the problem, but the recovery  
agent told him it was safe for him to drive  the car home. Mr B drove  the car home, though 
some of the fault lights reappeared on his journey.  So, Mr B took the car to a manufacturer 
approved local garage  and they told him the DPF needed to be replaced due to the build-up  
of soot and it couldnt be repaired as the car had been driven for too long without dealing 
with the DPF warning issue.  
Mr B says the recovery agent  shouldnt have told him it was safe to drive home and because 
he did, this caused  further damage  to his car. The recovery  firm said its agent acted correctly 
by diagnosing  the faults and providing the advice about the DPF warning  light issue. It said 
that the recovery agent offered to recover Mr Bs car, but he refused because  he wanted  to 
drive home. Mr B doesnt agree with this and said he was told by the recovery  agent  that it 
was safe to drive  the car but said he should keep  to driving on A-roads in case  his car went 
back into limp mode, which  he did. 
The investigator considered the information  provided by Mr B and Great  Lakes  they 
recommended the complaint be upheld because they felt Mr B could have  been  given better  
advice and felt the situation was aggravated because of what the recovery agent told Mr B. 
The investigator suggested Great Lakes pay half the cost of getting  the DPF replaced  
because they felt the issue was already present  and thought the DPF would  have needed to 
be replaced later anyway. 
Great Lakes agreed  to pay 50% of the cost of having the DPF replaced but Mr B disagreed.  
He said the DPF could have been  repaired and he wouldnt have needed replacement later, 
because the manufacturer told him there was no service life for a DPF.  So he asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed  by and ombudsman. 
Because I disagreed with our investigators view of the complaint, I decided  to issue  a 
provisional decision before I make  my final decision.  This allowed  both parties to comment 
on my thinking before  I make my final decision  which is the Financial Ombudsmans 
Services last word  on the case.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN03989432Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in 
light of the evidence that is available  and wider surrounding circumstances. 
To determine this complaint, I need to decide on the following:
Did the recovery agent  do enough to ensure it was safe for Mr B to drive his 
car?
If not, did this lead to further damage to Mr B car?
Did the recovery agent do enough to check if Mr Bs car was safe to drive?
Mr Bs car had already gone into limp mode  and was showing several  warning lights  
on his display  so this should have highlighted that there could have been a more 
serious issue than just regeneration (automatic internal repair) the DPF. Great  Lakes 
provided us with reports from 2 experts  they used  as part of its investigation and both 
have suggested  they would have  done  more investigations into the issues on the car:
Expert 1 says:
It is my opinion  that the roadside repair agent  should have followed the PH for 
a short  time to ensure that the DPF light cancelled after regeneration  without 
doing this would have been  unable to tell if there was anything more  sinister 
than an erroneous spike triggering  the warning lights.
Expert 2 says
I would never clear a fault like a dpf and send it on its way At the point of 
the fault code  it had approx 40g of soot.  So in theory  it would have 
regenerated. But if more than one light is one, i.e. eml, dpf and coil light.  It 
would need to be done via a computer rather than just sending it up the road.
Both Mr B and the recovery agent acknowledge a discussion took place regarding 
the next course of action after the faults  had been  identified. Great Lakes  suggest  
that it was Mr Bs decision to drive  home  but Mr B insists he was told it was safe to 
drive the car. Great Lakes  have provided us with its system notes from the callout, 
but I cant see that these  show it was Mr Bs decision to drive  home.  And I dont think  
its likely  Mr B would  have  driven home if the recovery agent  had told him it wasnt 
safe to do so and about  the potential consequences  of further damage to his car, if 
he did. So, I think its likely that the recovery agents  advice suggested Mr Bs car 
was safe to drive. 
So I currently think the recovery agent didnt do enough to ensure Mr Bs car was 
safe to drive.  He should have carried out more checks to diagnose and deal with the 
fault to ensure the advice  he was providing was accurate  or advised Mr B that his car 
should be recovered. Had he done  so, I think it was likely that Mr B wouldnt have 
attempted the journey  home knowing it could potentially damage  his car further. 
Did the advice lead to further damage to Mr Bs car?
Ref: DRN03989433When the recovery agent attended to Mr B the diagnostic information provided  shows  
the DPF was at a soot level where it could  have been regenerated (repaired), 
although it seems likely this would have needed to be done by computer rather  than 
by the internal procedure of the car. By the time Mr B sent his car to the 
manufacturer approved local garage he was advised that the soot level had 
increased and the DPF was no longer  repairable, even by computer,  and needed to 
be replaced. 
Mr B hadnt  driven  the car after his journey home  and had been told by the 
manufacturer approved local garage not to drive  the car but to have it recovered to 
them. Mr B was later told by the manufacturer approved local garage the reason for 
the increase in soot level was most likely because he had continued to drive his car 
without resolving the DPF warning issue correctly   which I also think is most likely. 
So Im currently thinking of upholding this complaint. I say this because from the 
information currently provided I think Mr B was told it was safe to drive his car home  
by the recovery  agent  and this led to additional damage to Mr Bs car than would 
have been the case had the car been  recovered or if the more care had been  taken  
to try and correctly regenerate the DPF. 
 
putting things right
Great Lakes should  put things right for Mr B by paying the difference between  what it 
would have cost him to repair  the DPF and what it cost him to replace it. 
Mr B has provided us with an invoice  to show the replacement cost was £2,561.48  
and an estimate from the local manufacturer approved  garage  showing the repair 
would have cost him £407.35  so the difference Great Lakes  should  to pay is 
£2,154.13.
Great Lakes should  also pay Mr B interest from the date Mr B made  the payment for 
the repair until he gets it back. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Great Lakes to take off tax from this interest.  Great Lakes 
must give Mr B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for 
On that basis, I was minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Great  Lakes to put things 
right as mentioned  above.
Ref: DRN03989434the responses to my provisional  decision 
Great Lakes responded to my provisional decision and they disagreed with the conclusion  
that they should be responsible for the additional  damage to the car. 
They raised the following points:
there was still a question mark whether the DPF warning  light was actually cleared by 
the recovery agent 
it is also unclear if the DPF would  have responded to a forced regeneration in the 
garage
Mr B admitted to continuing to drive  the car when  the warning light came back on  
Great Lakes felt Mr B should have stopped and called for assistance  again
Great Lakes said the comments from their own experts should be taken  in context 
and a belt and braces approach was applied by them to how they would have dealt 
with the recovery   and this was mainly to avoid  a similar  complaint themselves
Mr B responded saying  he agreed  with the provisional decision and he didnt add anything 
further.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive thought  again  about the 
conclusions I came to in my provisional  decision.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision 
and for the same  reasons.  However I have answered the points put forward  by Great Lakes. 
I disagree that Great Lakes own experts  comments need to be taken in context  of them  
wanting to avoid a similar complaint. The experts set out what they would have done in a 
similar position and it is clear from their responses they would  have done  significantly more 
to diagnose the issue and advise  Mr B than the recovery agent sent out by Great Lakes on 
this occasion.  
As a result, I dont think the question over whether the warning was cleared matters here. I 
say this because  its clear that the recovery agent  should have done more  than what he did 
before sending Mr B on his way home.  
Great lakes  said we cant be certain  the forced regeneration process would have worked but 
the information provided to me shows the DPF filter was still in a position  to be regenerated  
when the recovery  agent attended to Mr B and without evidence  to the contrary on balance I 
think the DPF is likely to have been repairable as mentioned by the local manufacturer 
approved garage.
Great Lakes also said Mr B should  have called for recovery again once the warning lights 
reappeared. But I dont agree. I say this because Mr B and the recovery agent seem to have 
discussed the possibility of the car going  back into limp mode and so it was suggested Mr B 
take A roads  to safely get home. By this point I think its likely the recovery agent  had told 
him it was safe to drive home so I dont think he would have thought  it was unusual for the 
warning lights to reappear  (if they had been cleared in the first place) as hed already been 
told about the possibility of the car going back into limp mode.  
Ref: DRN03989435So I see no reason  to depart from my earlier conclusions. I think  Great Lakes should pay the 
difference between  what  it would have  cost Mr B to repair the DPF and what it cost him to 
replace it and pay Mr B interest on the cost from the date Mr B made the payment,  at the 
rate of 8% a year. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision and above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
To settle  the complaint Great Lakes  Insurance SE should:
pay the difference in price between the repair and replacement of £2,154.13
also pay Mr B interest from the date Mr B made the payment for the repair until he 
gets it back. The interest rate should  be 8% a year
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Great Lakes to take off tax from this interest.  Great Lakes must  
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0398943