K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mrs W took out a credit  card with Lloyds in 1992.  At some point  either at the point of sale 
or in the years  afterwards  Mrs W was sold a PPI policy which wouldve helped cover  the 
repayments on her card for up to 12 months  at a time if she couldnt work.  It also provided 
life cover for the outstanding  balance.
Mrs W says she didnt need  the PPI and doesnt  remember giving her consent  to buy it.  
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. Mrs W disagrees,  so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think its likely Lloyds made  it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember 
this. Neither party  knows for sure when the PPI was sold and I dont have any 
evidence other  than Mrs Ws testimony to suggest  that Lloyds didnt get her 
permission to add the PPI. And I note that the PPI appeared on her credit  card 
statements each month. If Mrs W hadnt agreed  to take it I think  shed have 
queried it when  she first saw it. 
Lloyds say its likely it recommended the PPI to Mrs W so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits  on the PPI cover and she seems to have  had a need for the cover.  
Mrs W says she had full sick pay, but she hasnt said how long this wouldve 
lasted. Given what I know of her occupation and the types  of benefits seen in the 
industry, I dont think it wouldve lasted as long as the PPI wouldve paid out for. 
Mrs W had a small amount of savings, but the PPI wouldve  meant  these could 
have been used for other uninsured expenses if she wasnt  able to work. The PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN06436352So I dont  think Mrs W lost out as a result of anything Lloyds mightve done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint  so it follows that Lloyds Bank Plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0643635