K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2004. Mr and Mrs B say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them the PPI.
background
I sent Mr and Mrs B and Nationwide a provisional decision on 6 February 2019 to explain 
why I wasnt intending  to uphold the complaint.  An extract from my provisional decision is set 
out below:
Before this complaint was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Nationwide  
accepted that Mrs B wasnt  eligible  for the PPI. And so it offered to refund  the proportion  of 
the PPI premiums paid in respect of her cover, plus interest. I have therefore considered 
whether the policy  was also mis-sold  to Mr B.
When selling  the PPI, Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that they had a 
choice about it. Mr and Mrs B have said that Nationwide told them  they wouldnt get the 
mortgage if they didnt take the PPI. But they havent given us much more detail about what 
was said or what happened during the sale.
Nationwide has sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs application form for the mortgage.  This 
included a section  on PPI which showed  the level of cover, benefit split and qualifying period  
Mr and Mrs B had chosen. This suggests there was some conversation between Nationwide 
and Mr and Mrs B before the application form was printed out. But I dont  think theres 
enough evidence  for me to say that Nationwide told Mr and Mrs B that they had to have the 
PPI in this conversation.
Nationwide has also sent us a copy of a letter sent to Mr and Mrs B confirming the mortgage 
they had chosen. This included a section on PPI, which said that Nationwide  had 
recommended a policy but that Mr and Mrs B had fourteen days to change  their mind  about 
it.
Based on all the evidence I have, I think  Nationwide made it clear  to Mr and Mrs B that they 
had a choice about it. And that Mr and Mrs B chose to take the PPI, knowing they didnt 
have to.
As Nationwide  recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, it had to check that it was right for 
them. And as explained  above,  Nationwide has accepted that the policy  wasnt right for 
Mrs B. But, based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances at the time, I think that it was 
right for him. For example, he doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the exclusions  
to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer  than hes shown us he 
wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant Mr and Mrs B didnt need  to rely 
on their savings to make  their mortgage repayments  if Mr B wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for them, Nationwide had to give Mr and Mrs B clear 
information about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave them  wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment.  And Mr and Mrs Bs 
property couldve been at risk if theyd failed  to make their repayments. So I think they 
couldve found the protection the policy  offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think 
it was right for them,  it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for them if something 
Ref: DRN02351562went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs B off taking it out.
As part of the policy was mis-sold to Mrs B, Mr and Mrs B have questioned how the rest of 
the policy could  have been  properly  sold. But just because the policy  wasnt right for Mrs B 
doesnt necessarily  mean  that it wasnt right for Mr B. Or that Mr and Mrs B couldnt have 
found the cover the policy provided to Mr B useful. As Ive explained above, I think  they 
couldve found the protection useful. And I dont think  it would be fair to require Nationwide to 
refund the proportion  of premiums relating to Mr Bs cover, just because  the policy wasnt 
right for Mrs B.
I therefore dont  think the PPI was mis-sold  to Mr B. I think that Nationwides  offer to refund 
the proportion  of the PPI premiums paid in respect of Mrs Bs cover is fair. But I dont think 
Nationwide should  have to refund the proportion  of the premiums  paid in respect of Mr Bs 
cover.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs B paid on their PPI  and whether 
Nationwide treated them unfairly.
Nationwide has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Bs PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Nationwide  has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Bs commission was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about 
the commission  so I dont think Nationwide treated them  unfairly. This means it doesnt 
need to pay Mr and Mrs B back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
I said Id consider any further evidence or arguments either Mr and Mrs B or Nationwide sent 
in.
Nationwide has said it doesnt  have anything further to add. Mr and Mrs B said their 
argument about being told they wouldnt get the mortgage if they didnt  take the PPI was in 
relation to their original  mortgage sale, not this mortgage sale.  But they didnt  add any further 
arguments in relation  to this case.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr and Mrs B or Nationwide  submitted  any new arguments  or evidence in relation 
to this complaint,  I see no reason to change  the conclusions I set out in my provisional 
decision. So I still dont  think the complaint should  be upheld.
I think that Nationwides offer to refund the proportion of the PPI premiums  paid in respect of 
Mrs Bs cover  is fair. And so I dont think  it should have to pay back anything  further.
Ref: DRN02351563my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2019
 
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0235156