K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited is chasing him for a 
settlement figure following  the termination of a hire agreement after the vehicle  had been  
stolen and declared a total loss. He wants it to confirm no payment is due.
background
Mr M tells us he took out a hire agreement financed  by VWFS in June 2017. He says the 
vehicle was stolen  in early August 2017 and declared a total write  off. And that a claim was 
made to his insurers, a company Ill call L. Mr M states that he believed the full cost of the 
vehicle would be recovered due to the write  off being within the first 12 months. He says 
VWFS told him the settlement it required was £25,395.83. But as it had only received 
£23,917 from L it had required him to pay the shortfall.
VWFS told us it had the vehicle valued  at £25,395.83 but it had received a lower  settlement 
figure from Mr Ms insurers.  It said it had taken account of a direct debit payment received 
after the loss of the vehicle but that still left £1,227.76 which  Mr M was required to pay. It 
said it had also waived  its early termination  fee as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. He said VWFS wouldnt 
have been liable for VAT when it purchased the vehicle  it leased to Mr M. He said he thought 
that L had deducted VAT from its valuation. He said hed obtained information from 
recognised industry  websites and the valuation didnt materially  differ  from that determined 
by L. He noted  that VWFS  had its own method of valuation but he didnt think this entitled it 
to seek more than the market valuation it had received from the insurers.
VWFS didnt  agree with this outcome. It said GAP insurance was available  to cover such  
situations where insurance pay outs fell short of company valuations. As its not been 
possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In dealing with this complaint there  are several  aspects which I think  I need  to consider and 
Ill explain  these and the relevance I think they have in determining  my final decision. I 
should also explain that I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account.
Its most  unfortunate that the circumstances of this complaint were  brought about by factors  
beyond the control  of either party. And I can understand  Mr Ms concern at finding  he was 
expected to pay the substantial shortfall  which occurred following the theft of his hire vehicle.
In reality the agreement was terminated  not because  either  party wished it to be but because  
there was very little option. This is a very similar situation to what  is known  as frustration of 
contract. This usually occurs when  a supervening event - which is not due to the fault of 
either party - makes the contract impossible  to perform.  So the theft of the vehicle would 
mean it was no longer  available for Mr M to hire. The usual result where frustration of 
contract occurs is that any future legal obligation  under the contract on both sides  ceases 
from that point.
Ref: DRN04182032The main  difference  between  the parties here surrounds the fair valuation  of the vehicle.  And 
the effect this has on any amount Mr M might  be required to pay to settle the agreement.
VWFS obtained its own valuation from a company Ill refer to as E. This figure was 
£25,395.83 net of VAT. Ls net valuation figure was £24,167. And its the difference  between 
these figures that is the main focus of this complaint.
Our investigator found that there wasnt any material difference between  Ls valuation and 
two recognised industry guides. Ive seen  these valuations  and both give figures  which once 
VAT is deducted are below the valuation put on the vehicle by VWFS. But theyre also equal  
to or less than Ls valuation. The valuation VWFS has placed upon the vehicle is significantly 
higher than the others so I think its fair and reasonable  to expect an objective justification  for 
this difference.
But I cant see that VWFS has provided sufficient  information for me to reach  a conclusion 
that its valuation  - which is at least £1,000 higher than the others  - should be considered 
more reliable. Nor can I see anything in the agreement which allows  VWFS to simply impose  
a valuation and require Mr M to make  up the difference if the insurance pay out is less.
VWFS has suggested that Mr M wouldve  been  able to obtain GAP insurance  (that is to 
cover any difference  between the settlement it demanded  and the insurance pay out). But I 
dont think this fully addresses the point. A dispute  would still be likely if the GAP insurers  
disagreed with VWFS valuation of the veh
I think I should also consider that the terms of the agreement required Mr M to insure the 
vehicle for its full value  - which  he seems to have done - so that VWFS would be covered in 
the event of such loss. 
The terms of Mr Ms insurance contain the following provision:
If you are the "first and only registered keeper, within  12 months of buying
your car from new and:
its stolen and not recovered,
well replace your car with a new one of the same make, model and specification.  If one is 
not available  in the UK, well pay you the price  you paid for your car or the manufacturers 
current list price  (including taxes) whichever is less.
So I dont  think it was unreasonable for Mr M to expect the insurance  to fully cover  his 
obligations under  the agreement.  And if didnt Id expect him to be given a full explanation 
why.
Normally it would be for Mr M to take up any dissatisfaction he had with his insurers  pay out 
directly with L. But the situation here is not so straightforward. The terms and conditions  of 
the hire agreement (at 5.2) allow  VWFS to act as Mr Ms agents when an insurance claim is 
made. 
In other  words its VWFS, not Mr M, thats  able to negotiate or agree upon the final terms of 
the settlement  and receive any money  arising  from a claim. 
Ref: DRN04182033So I found it surprising  that VWFS  told us:
We have advised in our final response  that we have no obligation or authority to chase an 
insurance company  to pay any more towards the settlement amount.
Clearly this is at odds with the agency  appointment clause at 5.2 of the agreement.
VWFS clearly  had the authority to challenge the insurance companys valuation if it thought 
its own assessment was more reliable.  And normally it would be expected  that an agent 
would be under an obligation to act in the best interests of its principal (Mr M). But here 
VWFS appears to be in the anomalous position of being  able to accept a settlement figure 
on Mr Ms behalf even though that figure was substantially below its own valuation.  And then 
pursue him for any shortfall.  
That seems  to give rise to a potential conflict of interest. And whilst I can see VWFS did 
query the settlement with L, when Mr M raised  the issue, I cant say it followed the matter  up 
with any noticeable  vigour. And to then suggest  - as it did within its final response  letter  - that 
it was something Mr M needed to discuss with his insurers was in my view unhelpful.  VWFS 
knew or ought to have  known that in accordance  with clause 5.2 it was authorised to give the 
insurers a receipt for the settlement. And that this in effect  precluded any further  claim by Mr 
M.
Clearly when the object which is being  valued is no longer available theres more scope for 
differences of opinion  as to what it mightve been  worth. But the vehicle here was new when 
hired to Mr M. The agreement shows it was first registered on 17 June 2017  and it was 
reported stolen  on 4 August 2017.  Thats about six weeks  into the agreement. So I wouldnt 
expect there  to be a wide variation in valuations.  But Ls valuation  and that of the two 
industry guides is significantly below that obtained  by VWFS.
VWFS told us it didnt think it was fair that we should base a decision solely on an insurance 
companys valuation. I wouldnt disagree with this submission. But as neither the 
investigators view nor my decision are reliant  on Ls valuation  alone I dont think  it applies.
Ive explained  Ive taken into consideration recognised industry  valuation  tools as did our 
investigator. And I dont think VWFS has provided a satisfactory explanation why its 
valuation is out of line with the others  or why it should be preferred.
In those circumstances I dont think its fair and reasonable for VWFS to expect Mr M to 
make up the shortfall  between its valuation and the insurance pay out.
I note that Mr Ms policy was subject to an excess of £250 per claim. When L made its 
settlement payment to VWFS this sum was deducted. As this has nothing to do with 
valuation of the vehicle but relates simply to the terms and conditions of Mr Ms insurance 
policy I think Mr M is liable for this amount. Hes been advised  of my view on this specific  
issue and has indicated  he accepts  this.
Although I cant make  a formal order against Mr M Id expect this sum to be paid within  28 
days of the issue  of this decision or arrangements to be made  with VWFS  for an agreeable 
alternative.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  this complaint.
Ref: DRN04182034I now require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to take the following action:
1.Subject to Mr M paying £250  to cover  the cost of the insurance  policy  excess, to 
accept the insurance settlement in full and final settlement of the hire agreement with 
no further payment  due from Mr M.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0418203