K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) gave her incorrect  information about  
how a claim under her motor insurance policy would be settled. 
background
Miss B was involved in an accident  whilst reversing out of her driveway. She says she 
contacted UKI to discuss making a claim  and was led to believe it would be settled on a 
50/50 split liability  basis and not affect her policy. 
UKI later settled the claim in full, Miss B being held 100% liable for the accident, resulting in 
an increase to her renewal premium of almost  £200.  Miss B says that if shed  been  
correctly informed, she wouldnt have  made  the claim but instead settled the third partys 
damage privately. 
Miss B says she was also told that she had no claims recorded on her policy.  But her 
renewal documents  show her previous  claims.  She wants  UKI to remove the latest claim 
from her policy  and refund the increase to her premium. 
UKI say it didnt give Miss B incorrect information.  Although it acknowledges it couldve been  
clearer when explaining  the process  and what a split liability claim means. So, it offered 
Miss B £50 as a gesture  of goodwill. 
UKI has also said Miss B can buy back her claim,  meaning that she can reimburse the 
costs it paid out in return  for it being  removed  from her policy  and the claims database.  
These costs amount  to over £2,000. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She listened  to the recordings of the calls 
between Miss B and UKI and she didnt think it had given any wrong  or misleading  
information. She said the offer of £50 was fair as the advisor  on the call couldve been 
clearer, but she didnt  recommend that UKI do anything  more. 
Miss B didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B called UKI on the day of the accident. Ive listened to that call where she explains she 
was reversing off her driveway  when she hit the third party  who was proceeding down the 
hill. She says she apologised  to the third party  but didnt admit fault  and offered to pay 
for his repairs, either privately or through her insurance, if he got a quote.  However,  after 
shed reflected on what had happened and assessed her vehicle damage,  she didnt  think  it 
was her fault after all. She said she wanted  to speak to UKI before she decided whether to 
make a claim or not. 
UKIs advisor explained to Miss B on this call that as she was reversing, and the third party  
was driving in a straight line, she has a greater responsibility and duty of care.  So, it was 
more likely shed be held liable  for the accident. As such, if Miss B was to make a claim, it 
would be recorded  as a fault claim under her policy. The advisor  talks about the possibility 
that it could be settled as a split claim.  But she doesnt go into detail about what  this means.  
Ref: DRN04559582Miss B asked what impact  the claim will have on her policy.  And the advisor explains that a 
fault or split claim will have an impact on her no claims bonus. But as she has 9 years 
protected, shes allowed one fault claim in a policy year or no more than two fault claims in 
three consecutive years.  Miss B says she will speak  to the third party  and decide how she 
wanted to proceed. 
A few weeks  later, Miss B called UKI again to submit a claim. Ive listened to that call where 
Miss B says the third party hasnt returned any of her phone  calls and his family has been 
abusive towards her. The advisor reiterates  what the original advisor had told Miss B; that 
because she was reversing, she had a higher duty of care so its likely she will be held at 
fault. Miss B disputed  this on the call and the advisor said she would note that on the file. 
Miss B says she would be happy  to accept a split liability, but this wasnt  agreed by UKI. 
On a further call two months  later, UKI contacted Miss B to explain that after reviewing her 
statement and diagrams,  she does  appear  to be at fault for the accident.  Miss B says she 
was told by the two previous advisors that the third party was at least partly at fault and that 
it would  be a split claim.  She said she felt misled into making a claim that she couldve 
settled privately and logged a complaint. 
From everything Ive listened  to, I dont agree that Miss B was misled. All three  advisors she 
spoke to at UKI explained to her that its most likely  shell be held at fault for the accident.  Its 
clear Miss B feels  very passionately that she wasnt to blame, and I can appreciate her 
reasons why. But despite her protests  on the calls, UKI has remained consistent in what  its 
advisors have told her about  liability. It did say a split liability  outcome could be considered,  
but it didnt say this was guaranteed or even  likely.  
When Miss B received her policy renewal, she called UKI to query why her premium had 
increased so much.  Ive listened to this call as well. The advisor  explained to Miss B that the 
increase was due to the claim. Miss B asked why her premium  had been  affected when she 
has protected no claims. And the advisor told her that her protected no claims of nine years 
remained on the policy. 
From listening to this call, it does appear that Miss B has misunderstood how her protected 
no claims works. A no claims  discount  (NCD) is not a promise that a premium remains 
unchanged. Premiums  fluctuate as insurers may change various risk factors that make-up 
the price.  NCD is a discount  that is applied within the overall premium calculation.  Paying to 
protect NCD retains the level of discount.  But a claim will usually lead to some increase  at 
renewal because of the impact on underlying  risk factors, so prices will change.  
Ive reviewed the calculations from UKI. And whilst  I cant share these  details with Miss B 
due to their commercially sensitive nature, I am satisfied the NCD has been applied  to the 
renewal premium. 
Ref: DRN04559583my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
I am aware  that U K Insurance Limited has made an offer to pay £50. I conclude that such 
an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that U K Insurance 
Limited should pay Miss B £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0455958