K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that his claim  under  a furniture warranty has been unfairly declined  by 
Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas).
My references to Ageas include its agents.
background
In 2015, Mr P took out a furniture warranty with Ageas when he bought  two leather sofas  - a 
2 seater  and a 3 seater. The warranty covers repairs for accidental  damage and structural  
defects for 5 years. 
In 2018, Mr P made a claim for two things  leather peeling and also broken seat springs. In 
relation to the broken  seats, Ageas notes record that Mr P said he found this after sitting  
down - he felt a lump  pushing up and when pushing down he could feel its the spring base.
Ageas sent a technician to inspect the sofas . As a result of this, Ageas declined the claim. 
Mr P wasnt  happy and complained to Ageas. Ageas agreed to send another  technician out 
to inspect the sofas. In relation to the issue with the leather peeling, the second technicians  
report said this is due to a fault in the finish on the leather. So Ageas agreed  to repair  this.
In relation to the broken  seats  in the 2 seater sofa,  the second technicians  report said,
the springs in the spring interiors have buckled  overdue to defective  
components
I have inspected inside the sofa and none of the interior springs have come 
through. The zigzag springs  are all ok as well. This is the springs inside the interior 
buckling over
If the claim goes ahead this will require 2 x new spring interiors  from manu to resolve
In relation to the broken  seats  in the 3 seater sofa,  it said,
the seat interior springs have buckleddue  to defective components
inspected with images. The zigzag springs  are all ok this is the seat interior  
springs that have  buckled over
If the claim goes ahead this will require 3 x new spring interiors  from manu to resolve
In response to Mr Ps claim  for the broken seats,  Ageas said that the only way to resolve  the 
issue with the seats is to replace the seat interiors. And this meant the damage  wasnt  
covered by his warranty.
Mr P came to our service   he feels the claim should  be approved. He says the first 
technician told him the main seat springs  are buckled which Ageas says isnt covered. But 
the second technician said it was nothing  to do with the seat springs - it was the bag. 
Mr P is also unhappy with the service given to him by Ageas when dealing  with his claim. 
And says hed asked  several times  for Ageas to explain  what it meant where  it said This is 
also down to use over time but also partly manufacturing defect in the first final response  
letter (FRL) sent to Mr P in July 2018.
Our investigator looked into matters but she didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. She explained:
Ref: DRN02599172-she didnt feel that Ageas  had done anything wrong in declining Mr Ps claim. 
-she thought  Ageas  explanation about  the wording used in its FRL was reasonable. 
-although Ageas had cancelled an appointment with Mr P at short notice, itd also 
offered Mr P £20 which  she felt was a reasonable amount in the circumstances.
Mr P disagrees. He says his main issue is that the terms state Ageas dont cover damage  to 
springs but they dont state what springs arent covered. After assuming it was the main  
spring, Ageas refused  the claim.  But the second  technicians report  states that none of the 
springs, the main  spring, the zigzag spring or the cushion springs were damaged. He says 
the problem is with the other components that hold the cushion  springs  i.e. the construction 
of the seat cushion bag has failed and split allowing the springs to fall out. The technician  
stated in his report  that this is a partial  manufacturers defect.  So Mr P feels his claim should 
be covered.
Mr P also says its unfair to rely on reports which he feels  have  been  shown to be 
contradictory and incorrect.  This matter  has now been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr P that I think the investigator has reached the right outcome 
here. So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
I think the key things to consider here are (i) what has gone wrong with the sofas  and (ii) 
whether that is covered under the warranty.
what has gone wrong with the sofas?
Ageas sent its technician  to inspect the sofas to report on the likely cause of the broken 
seats and leather peeling.  That's a reasonable thing for it to do in a claim for repairs.  And 
when Mr P was unhappy with the findings in the first report, Ageas sent another  technician  to 
inspect the sofas  for a second opinion. 
As a result of the second technicians report,  Ageas accepts that the leather peeling is now 
covered under the warranty. Mr P feels this is the right outcome in respect  of that part of his 
claim. But he also says the reports are contradictory and its unfair to rely on them.  I dont 
see things quite the same. I dont think its reasonable or fair for either party to pick the parts 
of each report that are most favourable to them and disregard the other parts.  Also, I havent 
seen any other expert evidence to say the second technicians opinion  is wrong.  So Ive 
given more weight  to the second technicians report.  
I appreciate Mr P says the springs arent  the issue. And I agree that the reports  in this matter 
arent particularly easy  to read which hasnt helped. Even so, the second technicians  
Ref: DRN02599173recommendation is that five new spring  interiors would be needed to fix the problem if the 
claim was accepted. The report doesnt  say that the construction of the seat cushion  bag has 
failed and split allowing  the springs  to fall out. Nor that any new seat cushion bags would be 
required to fix the sofas if the claim was accepted. I understand  Mr P says the technician  told 
him this during  the visit. It isnt possible  to know what was said during the visits but I think its 
fair and reasonable for Ageas to rely on the technicians  written report  for an explanation of 
what he thought  the issues were  and how they can be fixed.
In summary,  I think the evidence suggests  theres a defect in the springs  in the seat interiors.  
is this  a defect in the springs in the seat interiors - covered under the warranty?
Mr Ps warranty covers  him for structural defects, amongst  other things. However, for Mr Ps 
claim to be successful, it must be shown that the damage hes claiming  for falls into one of 
the categories of specific structural  defects  covered.  He also needs to show  that it doesnt 
fall within  any exclusions listed.
Structural defects are defined in Mr Ps warranty as faults found outside  of the 
manufacturers guarantee period  that have occurred due to faulty or defective 
components. It goes on to list the specific faults  covered  and they include breaking or 
bending of metal mechanisms or other  metal  components except springs within  seat 
interiors.
This is the reason that Ageas says that seat interiors arent covered under the warranty  
because the defect is in the springs in the seat interiors and these are specifically excluded  
under the terms  of this warranty.
It follows that I think Ageas has fairly declined Mr Ps claim. So it doesnt  need to repair or 
replace the springs in the seat interiors to fix the broken seats.
Finally, I dont uphold  Mr Ps complaint about the service Ageas gave him. I can see that 
where it got things  wrong it apologised and offered him compensation. Also, when Mr P 
raised queries  about a missed visit by a technician and the wording  in the FRL, Ageas 
investigated these  concerns and gave Mr P a reasonable explanation. 
I know Mr P will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute  with Ageas  can do for him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0259917