K820x#14complaint
Miss G complained that The Royal London Mutual  Insurance Society Limited wrongly  
advised her to invest in a regular premium ISA in 2002. She had an endowment-linked 
mortgage, it was apparent  that endowments werent  likely  to be able to pay off the end debt, 
so she should  have been advised to make over-payments  on her mortgage  instead.
background
In 2002 Miss G met with a Royal London  advisor. He recorded  that she had an endowment-
linked mortgage  (since 1999) and was tied into it for another three  years. Mortgage concerns 
were not viewed as a financial objective; instead  he noted that she wished to save for a nest 
egg.
She was in employment, had no dependents, and joint savings of around £5,000 with her 
partner. Her attitude  to risk was recorded as cautious. She was recommended to invest  £25 
per month into the Royal London with-profits fund, generally seen as suitable  for a person 
with a cautious risk profile.
According to Royal London, Miss G was told returns would  depend  on investment 
performance and that a market value reduction  could  reduce the value on encashment.  The 
product literature explained how bonuses  were calculated and paid. 
An adjudicator did not feel her complaint should  be upheld.  She thought the product was 
suitably cautious  and didnt believe it was unreasonable for Miss Gs situation.
Miss Gs representatives did not agree. They said the advisor  should  have known that 
endowment mortgages  were underperforming and recommended reducing her liability. They  
also argued that Miss G was left with an insufficient cash reserve  of just £2,500 savings  (half 
of her and her partners  shared total) and so shouldnt have been advised  to take any risk 
with her money. She had no investment experience and should not have been classified as 
a cautious investor  but a no-risk one. Further, unitised with-profits  products were notoriously 
complex and difficult to understand.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its important to explain that my role, when  considering a complaint, is to decide 
whether a business clearly did something wrong  or made a mistake, not whether it might 
have done things differently (such as made a different recommendation). In this context I do 
not think there is sufficient  evidence  to safely conclude  that the advisor did offer poor or 
unsuitable advice.
The evidence suggests Miss G was potentially looking to commit a modest  amount into a 
savings plan and Ive seen no evidence that £25 a month was unaffordable. She retained 
the plan for 10 years.  She could have chosen  to stop making  contribution if her 
circumstances or priorities changed  without being  penalised. But she did not do so.
I note that the advisor made  a number of recommendations, including  insurance protection 
etc., which  Miss G rejected. This suggests she had some desire to purchase a savings  
Ref: DRN05699252policy of some sort, otherwise I think shed have rejected this recommendation as well. I 
dont share  her representatives  view that this was a particularly  complex  product (even 
though technical details  were included in the documentation). Im also satisfied it posed a 
broadly low-ish risk, particularly for someone  making  small, regular payments rather  than a 
large, lump sum on a specific date.
I dont accept that an advisor  shouldve automatically recommended  a client  with an 
endowment-linked mortgage should make  over-payments to their mortgage rather than build 
up a savings pot. In some  circumstances that may be good advice; for example if the 
mortgage is due to end fairly soon and there is a clear endowment  shortfall. But in Miss Gs 
case she had only recently taken out her mortgage/endowment policy  and I dont think  there  
was clear evidence  to indicate she would  necessarily face a large shortfall 20 years plus 
hence and that she should  use all her spare  cash to start making mortgage over-payments.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0569925