K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Threadneedle  Asset Management Limited  failed to explain how its dual 
pricing policy worked, particularly that order size could affect the prices an investor  received.
background
Mr M placed two orders on consecutive days for a Threadneedle property fund; the first 
order was completed  at the offer price but the second larger  one at the creation price with, 
in Mr Ms words, a 6.6% surcharge.  If hed been  aware of how the business handled these 
large orders he would have split it into two to avoid the surcharge - or not invested at all. He 
has since discovered how larger orders can be affected by dual pricing, something which 
was not clear from the documentation Threadneedle provided and which  even his broker 
didnt understand.
Mr M said the information in the Key Information Document (KID) and on Threadneedles 
website and its Q & A section covering repricing was variously incomplete or wrong.  These 
documents created confusion about its dual pricing policy  and he had been falsely reassured  
by this information. He expected a bid-ask spread of 0.5%  rather than 6.6%  spread which is 
what occurred. This resulted in him losing over £1,350. 
He said that this "repriced" offer price is not published anywhere or listed  anywhere in the 
documents or Threadneedles website. A casual investor looking for price information
will not get any information on this significantly higher "repriced" offer price.  Only the 
prospectus mentions the repricing mechanism, and even this claims the maximum impact of 
repricing would be 5.9% (indicatively).
Specifically, he argued that the KID document does not say that order size can adversely 
affect the price  for an individual investor  nor that published prices  arent indicative of the 
prices an investor can trade  at. Its use of the terms bid and offer is confusing  given how it 
also refers to redemption and creation. Crucially, it does not explain that the bid-offer 
spread an individual investor  may face is dependent on the size of their particular order.
He would not have gone ahead with his trades if hed read the full prospectus  rather than 
relying on this misleading information. He wants Threadneedle to refund his loss.
Threadneedle rejected his complaint, saying that it was standard  practice that prices can 
change for larger  trades and referred  Mr W to documents  it said explained this. It said it 
didnt have access to the individual trades Mr M had placed as all buys and sells from a 
particular nominee  (in this case his broker) were combined  up into one larger trade. 
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint  should  be upheld.
He was satisfied  that Threadneedle was entitled  to treat Mr Ws second  order  in the way it 
had and that the documentation set out its ability to deal with larger  orders in this way, noting 
that the Prospectus stated:
Buying Units
5.4.1. When Units in the Trust are priced on a bid basis (see the section  with the heading
Valuation of the Trust)  the Manager has discretion to require any large  deal (meaning a
Ref: DRN04254982subscription for not less than £15,000) be carried out at a higher  price than the published  
offer price, provided that the revised  price  does not exceed  the maximum price  permitted  
under the FCA Rules.
Further, that Section  5.4.2  stated:
Investors dealing  through  third parties  should note that a fund platform or similar nominee
service may aggregate its deals such that the total transaction  received by the Manager is
greater than £15,000, even if the individual investors deal is not.
Given Mr Ws first trade was £15,000  and his second more than this figure,  he was satisfied 
Threadneedle hadnt done anything contrary  to the terms and conditions.
He also quoted from sections of Threadneedles website which,  he felt, explained its overall 
approach to dual pricing including repricing for larger trades.
Overall, he was satisfied the literature  documents presented by Threadneedle made clear  
that trades  above  £15,000 may trigger their internal large trade threshold causing the trade 
to be re priced as per the terms set out in the UK Property Authorised  Trust prospectus.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. As such, there  is little 
more I can add to the detailed  reasoning he gave, which I have summarised  above.
Crucially, this was a non-advised sale with the onus being on Mr M to read all the 
documentation concerning what is a fairly complex  investment (due to the vagaries of dual 
pricing). If he felt anything  was unclear  or potentially confusing it was for him to seek further 
clarification before going ahead.
 
In this context, whether  Threadneedles information  could, perhaps,  have  been  slightly 
clearer including more  explicit warnings  about the possible impact of repricing, I am satisfied  
it provided sufficient information  overall about  larger trades and potential  differential pricing. 
The Prospectus set out a very lengthy  series of risks including  repricing of large trades  and 
noted that 225 larger  trades had been  repriced in the previous 12 months.
I also note that Threadneedle  does not promise that there would be a maximum 5.9%  
spread but approximately 5.9%. I dont therefore consider the 6.6% spread that Mr W 
experienced to have  been a breach of his terms of trade.
Overall, I do not accept that Threadneedle  did anything fundamentally wrong.
 
Ref: DRN04254983my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0425498