K821x#15complaint
Miss B says Phoenix Life Assurance  Limited didnt understand what  type of pension plan it 
held on her behalf. This led to a series of miscommunications about  her retirement options 
and a significant delay in accessing her benefits.  She says this resulted in serious  detriment 
to her finances and life plans, as well as causing  her significant trouble and upset.
background
In 1992 Miss B took redundancy  from a company  where  shed worked for 14 years.  As part 
of the exit package a financial  consultant was appointed  to provide support and advice about 
pensions. Miss Bs company pension pot was transferred into a personal pension  plan with a 
new provider.
Around 2015 Phoenix Life took over Miss Bs pension plan from her former provider. For the 
purposes of keeping things simple,  in my decision Ill refer to Phoenix Life throughout to 
include acts and omissions by either company.
Its of note Miss B has also expressed  concerns about the advice  she received from the 
consultant in 1992 and the impact  this has had on her pension. These matters are subject of 
a separate complaint shes raised against  that firm. My decision here only focusses on what  
Phoenix Life is responsible for.
Miss B received regular notifications about  her pension plans performance,  features and 
future options. She told us:
My expectation (built  over years of communication) was to receive  my pension  on 7 July 
2018, when I would  exercise my option to take a 25% tax-free lump sum and cash-in the 
remainder through  a draw down option
Miss B had been  planning her retirement on this basis.  In May 2018 she appointed a 
Financial Adviser (FA). Shortly afterwards she was shocked to find that certain features in 
her pension plan restricted the choices she had.
For example, there was a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) protection which had first 
call on her funds.  This had the potential to limit the tax-free lump sum she could access.  And 
if shed wanted  to proceed  with a draw down  option, shed have had to transfer to a different  
provider. Any transfer wouldve  incurred costs she hadnt planned on.
Miss B told us these  developments  were contrary to the information shed received over 
several years. She said Phoenix  Lifes lack of understanding of the type of pension it held on 
her behalf  also resulted  in a substantial delay  to accessing her benefits. These shouldve  
been available from July 2018,  but she didnt receive payments until November 2018.
Miss B told us that a series of errors,  mishandling and poor communication by Phoenix Life 
caused serious detriment  to her finances and life plans, as well as causing her significant  
trouble and upset.  She says she continued to experience handling problems right up until 
her funds were finally transferred to a different provider in November 2018.
Phoenix Life told us it made  Miss B aware that her pension plan had a GMP. It also says it 
wasnt responsible  for all the delays in this case.  It had to deal with Miss Bs former employer 
and HM Revenue  and Customs (HMRC) to confirm the correct  GMP revaluation  rate. And 
this took much longer than it thought it would.
Ref: DRN04418512Phoenix Life did accept  it had got some  things wrong. For example, it says there were 
problems with the information  it sent Miss B in January  2018  about her pension.  And it 
shouldve noticed  issues with the approach to revaluation of her GMP earlier.
Phoenix Life apologised for the trouble and upset it had caused  Miss B. It offered her £1000 
in compensation  and it said it would meet any interest charges Miss B had incurred on loans 
shed had to take out while waiting for her pension arrangements to be settled.
Miss B thought Phoenix Lifes  offer to put things right was totally inadequate.
The investigator upheld  this case.  In addition to what Phoenix Life had offered, his main 
recommendation was that it should  also pay Miss B for the lost investment opportunity  
between when she shouldve received  her tax-free  lump sum and when she got it. Miss B 
didnt agree with what the investigator said. So, her complaint was passed to me to consider.
I issued my provisional decision last month. Miss B disagreed with the redress  Id indicated 
and provided further arguments in support of her case. Im afraid she hasnt brought  forward  
any new information or evidence that changes my mind. It follows  that Im not proposing to 
depart from my main  initial conclusions and outcome.
Before I move on, I can see Miss B has questioned the impartiality  of this Service.  She says 
because businesses pay us fees this has an undue  influence  on decisions. I think  its 
important to note this Service was created by statute. It is our duty to be fair to both parties 
in a dispute and to act independently.  The fees paid by business are not a voluntary 
contribution, theyre  a regulatory requirement.
Our decisions are always based  on evidence and the circumstances in each case  we 
consider. And where information is contradictory or incomplete, we arrive at findings  on the 
balance of probability. I hope  this will go some way to reassuring Miss B about our approach.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im upholding  Miss Bs complaint but not to the 
extent shed like. Ill explain why.
Id like to thank Miss B for her detailed  testimony,  which was very helpful.  Not only in terms 
of setting out key events  and their chronology, but importantly to hear about the impact of 
whats happened on her. While I wont be responding to each individual  point shes made, I 
can assure her Ive considered everything shes  told this Service.
In her response to the investigators opinion Miss B said there were two essential facts 
underpinning her complaint. Firstly, if Phoenix Life had delivered the pension  plan it 
promised up to and including January 2018,  she wouldve received it in the form and at the 
time shed  expected. And secondly,  had it not issued multiple, contradictory and false  offers  
in June 2018 and then withdrawn these when it realised the problems  with her GMP, she 
wouldve received  her tax-free lump sum without the cost of transferring her fund.
My decision  will cover these and the other key issues in her complaint.
Ref: DRN04418513What happened  and what shouldve happened?
Ill start by looking at the correspondence Phoenix Life issued about Miss Bs pension plan. 
Shes told us that her expectations about  what would be provided and what would be 
possible had built up over years of these communications. Ive reviewed documents from 
between 2013  to 2018.
My findings  are mixed  in terms of where I think the communication issues in this case  
emerged. This is not a binary  matter  of saying that either Phoenix  Life or Miss B is wholly 
responsible. Indeed, other parties  have been involved and had an impact on what 
happened.
The transfer of Miss Bs pension from her former employer to Phoenix Life was covered by 
provisions in section  32 of the Finance  Act 1981. These plans were also sometimes  called 
deferred annuity contracts or buy-out policies. Many of these pension plans were  invested 
in with-profits funds,  as in Miss Bs case.  And her plan provided the protection  of a GMP.
Ive set out these  terms because  - along with others  - theyve been used interchangeably 
over the years in communications with Miss B about her pension  plan.  While  this didnt affect 
the underlying  features, benefits,  protections and restrictions applicable,  I can see why this 
caused confusion  and ultimately  contributed to undermining her confidence in how things 
were being  handled.
That said,  Phoenix Life did write regularly to Miss B with updates on her pension plan. 
Although the prominence  of the description of key features associated with her plan varied, I 
dont think its unreasonable for Phoenix  Life to argue these letters shouldve alerted Miss B 
to the protections and restrictions associated with it.
For example, Phoenix Lifes covering letter in May 2013 wouldve told Miss B:
Our primary goal is to ensure that all plan-holders  guaranteed benefits are protected. Such 
guaranteesrepresent our minimum commitment to you.
And on the second page of explanatory notes about  the status of her pension there was a 
section about  her GMP, it said:
Your plan was funded  by a transfer  from a former  employers pension  scheme  when you 
left that employment,  the scheme had to ensure when you reached age 60 your annual  
pension was above a legal threshold...the Revalued  Guaranteed Minimum Pension (RGMP),  
and where it applied to your former  scheme  it must  also apply to your plan.
The RGMP is therefore the minimum annual pension that plans affected by the legal 
threshold must pay from the plans Normal Retirement  DateTo  ensure any RGMP is paid, 
your pension fund must first be used to buy that RGMP.
This requirement means that the following restrictions might apply: tax-free lump sum - if the 
cost of your RGMP is more than the value of your entire pension  fund then no tax free lump 
sum can be paid; early retirement - if the cost of your RGMP is more than your pension  fund 
then early retirement could not be allowed; and transfer - if the cost of your RGMP is more  
than your pension  fund then transfer could not be allowed.
Ref: DRN04418514Ive also seen the information packs issued  to Miss B in 2014, 2015 and 2017  and these 
included similar notifications.
Miss B is sceptical Phoenix Life sent some  of this correspondence. Ive not seen anything 
which makes me think it isnt reporting things that happened accurately. I think  the problem 
with some of the communication is more likely  to relate to the fact she moved  home on a 
couple of occasions during this period. It seems she didnt inform  Phoenix Life at the time.
Miss B did however put in place arrangements to ensure correspondence sent to her old 
addresses was forwarded  to her new home.  But I dont doubt she didnt receive some of 
these letters. Thats unfortunate because I think its possible, they couldve further raised  her 
awareness about the benefits and restrictions attached to her pension  plan.
Phoenix Life had been  sending correspondence  to Miss Bs last known address. I dont think  
it would  be reasonable for me to hold it responsible for letters  not reaching her in this 
situation. As soon as it became aware  of her new addresses it updated its records.
Im mindful of what Miss B told us about  communications over the years underpinning her 
expectations about her pension  plan  so it seems  she did receive  at least some  
correspondence.
Further, I note that in October 2013  Miss B appointed a new FA. It wrote  to Phoenix Life with 
Miss Bs authority to take on future  servicing of her pension plan. It requested information 
about her plan, including whether there was a GMP. It also asked for a pension  transfer  
quotation.
Phoenix Life wrote back a month later informing the FA as follows:
Thank you for your recent request  for a transfer  quotation on this plan. By law, a transfer 
can only take place  if the companys actuaries can certify that the transfer  value available  is 
greater than the amount needed,  on a prescribed  basis, to provide the GMP liability  held 
under the plan. This amount is known as the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV).
Due to the current low interest rate environment, and improved life expectancy, the cost of 
providing pensions  has increased significantly since your/the policy started.  The CETV of the 
GMP liability has increased  accordingly  and is now greater than the value of the planso  
transfer is not available at this time.
Miss B said the focus of her FAs enquiry  was whether she could retire at 55. She says the 
FA didnt provide her with a copy of the correspondence hed received from Phoenix Life. 
And in a 30-minute conversation with her conveyed only that she couldnt retire  until she was 
60 and the terms  and value of her plan were as shed expected.
The GMP element of Miss Bs pension plan was a key feature, which was specifically 
enquired about  by her FA and highlighted by Phoenix Life in its response as the main  reason 
why she couldnt  retire early. 
So, I wouldve expected  Miss Bs FA to have discussed the GMP with her. It wasnt only 
relevant to the immediate enquiry being  made, but also to how the plan operated and future 
decision making. The advice she received  from her FA isnt something  I can hold Phoenix 
Life responsible  for.
Ref: DRN04418515Phoenix Lifes communications with Miss B werent  perfect. Ive already commented on the 
different descriptions  it used for her pension plan over time causing confusion.  But there 
were other issues.
Sometime in 2016 Phoenix Life sent Miss B information about the Governments new 
pension freedoms. Shes provided us with the leaflet she received. The leaflet says: 
Anybody over the age of 55, whatever the size of their defined  contribution  pension  fund will 
be able to take the fund value how and when they want  it 
Taken at face value  and in isolation I can see how this mayve given Miss B the impression 
she formed about the options  available  to her as she approached retirement. 
But Im mindful the leaflet  appears to have  been  associated with a more detailed information  
pack, which I havent seen. It indicates  further  information about her options  will follow.  The 
leaflet also says Miss B should consult a FA when  considering her pension  options.
So, I dont find it persuasive that Miss Bs approach to retirement planning  wouldve relied on 
a single sentence or extract here and there  from the body  of information provided.
Miss B says that I rely too heavily on information  Phoenix Life claims was issued in 2013, 
and not enough on the information she was sent in January 2018. So, Ive considered this 
correspondence again carefully.  It was a countdown to retirement pack. This set out the 
main options  she had for utilising her pension pot.
Its arguable the information wasnt as clear as it couldve been. For example,  it wouldve 
been helpful if the impact of the GMP associated with her plan had been set out, up front. 
And no figures were  provided about  the value of her GMP. Phoenix Life has accepted 
deficiencies with this pack in its final response letter.
But I note the covering  letter to the January 2018 pack did say clearly that some pension 
plans may not offer all the retirement options detailed.  Miss B was advised to check the 
pension plan summary which was attached.
Amongst other matters, the summary said cash-in options wouldnt be known until Miss B 
reached her retirement date. It said there  could  be restrictions on the tax-free lump  sum 
available because of the GMP associated with her plan. And it noted Miss B might need to 
transfer her fund to another provider  to secure  greater  flexibility  in what  she could  do.
So, although  Phoenix Life has accepted that its January 2018 pack  wasnt as good as it 
shouldve been,  theres a reasonable  argument there was enough information to have 
alerted Miss B to certain important features of her pension plan.
I know Miss B isnt a pension expert,  and shes  used  FAs previously. Phoenix Life was 
consistent in telling  its customers to seek advice from a FA when considering retirement  
options. Miss B appointed professional advisers  on 31 May 2018, five weeks  prior to her 
scheme retirement date.
Phoenix Life says it became aware of a discrepancy in the revaluation rate to be used for 
Miss Bs GMP in April 2018 and tried to sort things out. HMRCs system suggested one rate 
and its own system indicated something different.  Ultimately Miss Bs former employer 
confirmed HMRCs record was incorrect.
Ref: DRN04418516Miss B says Ive relied on an assertion by Phoenix Life that it started communications with 
her former employer and HMRC in April 2018. I can confirm to her that Ive seen  copies of 
several letters it sent to her former  employer from this date. I can also see it had contact with 
HMRC.
For example, Phoenix Life first wrote to her former  employer on 30 April 2018 requesting 
information about Miss Bs GMP revaluation rate. It didnt  respond until 6 June 2018 stating 
that it would  require a letter of authority from her to release the information.  Phoenix Life 
wrote again  to Miss Bs former employer on 11 July, this time enclosing her letter  of 
authority. It didnt respond and another chaser was sent on 7 August 2018.
I can see that, as Miss B told me, it wasnt until the direct intervention  from her and her FA 
that IBM provided the information Phoenix Life had requested much  earlier.
HMRC made an error in recording the wrong revaluation rate. And Miss Bs former employer 
wasnt as responsive  as it shouldve been to Phoenix Lifes  information  requests. So, other 
parties had a hand in the things that went wrong in getting Miss Bs pension arrangements  
up and running.
But as I concluded  in my provisional decision,  there were significant  failures  in Phoenix Lifes 
communications throughout. For example, I think it shouldve been  more proactive in 
chasing the issue of the revaluation rate given  Miss Bs impending  retirement date. And it 
shouldve been  alert to possible requirements  such as needing  a letter  of authority from her 
to gain access to the information it required.
Further, I can see from information Phoenix Life sent to Miss B in 2017 that values for her 
GMP were included. These were based on incorrect revaluation rates.  This significantly 
inflated the value of the benefit  available. This problem wasnt identified  until several months 
later. And when  it was Miss B wasnt told immediately. 
Even after the problem had been found  Phoenix  Life continued to use incorrect figures in the 
information it was sending to her. For example, Miss Bs FA asked for a pension  plan 
illustration in June  2018. This covered the size of her pot, provided details about  the GMP 
value associated with it and set out the impact  this protection  might have on her options. 
Miss B says this was the first time shed  become  aware of the GMP and its implications.
While, as Ive already  said,  previous  communications  Phoenix Life sent Miss B shouldve 
alerted her to the nature of her pension  plan, I think it was the problem with the GMP 
revaluation where  it was at fault and which caused  the material  problems that emerged.
After receiving the June  2018 illustration, Miss Bs FA contacted Phoenix Life seeking 
clarification. It was at this point it confirmed the information it had provided for her GMP 
values had been incorrect and that it was seeking further information from HMRC and her 
former employer about the revaluation rate before  it could provide accurate figures.
Its of note, all of this was happening as Miss B was fast approaching her retirement date on 
7 July. And even after this had past there still appears to be some confusion about  the 
implications of Miss Bs GMP as late as 2 August 2018 when her FA told her:
Ref: DRN04418517What [Phoenix  Life] is failing  to explain is what I mentioned to you on the telephone in that 
the GMP pensionhas first claim on the fund at retirement. Once those  "safeguarded" 
benefits are provided  for, then the residue of the fund can be used to pay the permitted tax-
free cash, etc.
With this said you can choose to give up the safeguarded benefits  in favour of a personal 
pension (with the attendant  25% tax free cash) but that has to be an advised decision and 
before any adviser  can give that advice to you, they will need to know what the current  GMP 
numbers are
Later in August 2018 Phoenix  Life issued a further illustration. This set out Miss Bs GMP  
based on the agreed revaluation rate confirmed with HMRC and her former employer. It had 
the effect of reducing the projected annual GMP value from around  £14,000  as notified two 
months earlier, to around £7,000. A substantial change. A new retirement date of 28 August 
was also shown on the paperwork  although this wasnt ever given effect.
Its instructive that internal file notes written  by Phoenix Lifes technical team acknowledged 
its processes werent as proactive  or efficient as they couldve been,  specifically in how it 
handled the GMP aspect of Miss Bs pension  plan. 
So, I think Miss B is right when  she told us these things made it very difficult  for her to plan 
her future with certainty.  I can see how some of the communications Phoenix  Life issued 
wouldve caused her confusion, frustration  and worry.
I dont think it would  be reasonable for me to uphold all aspects of Miss Bs complaint, for the 
reasons Ive already set out. But I do think Phoenix  Life is primarily responsible for the 
significant delay  she experienced  in gaining access to her pension benefits.
Phoenix accepted  that it got some  things wrong in how it handled Miss Bs pension plan 
arrangements. But Miss B didnt think what it offered to do to put things right was enough.
putting things right 
What was the impact  of what  went wrong?
Miss B detailed what she felt the consequences of Phoenix Lifes  failures were for her. This 
included serious  detriment to her finances and life plans, as well as the significant distress 
and inconvenience  shed been  caused.  Ive thought carefully about  what  shes  told us.
When something has gone wrong and its the fault of the business our approach is, as far as 
possible, to put the consumer in the position  they would be in now if those problems hadnt 
arisen in the first place. Ive considered these matters under three broad headings:  financial 
impact; consequential losses;  and trouble and upset.
financial impact
In thinking about the financial impact on Miss B, Ive borne in mind  the long-standing  
preferences Miss B has articulated about  her retirement:
My expectation was to receive my pension on 7 July 2018,  when  I would exercise my option 
to take a 25% tax-free lump  sum and cash-in the remainder through a draw  down option
Ref: DRN04418518Its agreed there was a delay of around four and a half months in Miss B receiving  her 
retirement benefits. So, the starting point is to compare the gross fund available  to her at 
these different points  in time. Miss Bs fund stood  at around £224,142 in July 2018 when she 
shouldve been  able to access her benefits. When her fund transferred to another  provider in 
November 2018  it was worth about £226,427.
tax-free cash
So, the tax-free cash that Miss B wouldve  been  able to access  in July 2018 was £56,035. 
The tax-free cash she received was £572 more than this. While there was a benefit  for Miss 
B here, wed say shed  missed an investment opportunity because  of the delay she 
experienced in getting her money.
To work out the value  of this missed opportunity the investigator applied  interest  at 8% 
simple per annum to the tax-free sum that Miss B shouldve been paid in July 2018. He 
worked out the value of interest for four and a half months. And then reduced this sum by 
20% as Miss B was a basic  rate taxpayer. This gave a net lost investment  value  of £1345.
As we know,  Miss B received around  £56,608 in November 2018.  The investigator worked 
out the tax-free cash she shouldve received  in July 2018 and added to this a sum for the 
lost investment opportunity. The total he arrived at was £57,380. The difference  between this 
and what she received in November 2018  was £772.
I agree  with the investigators recommendation. Phoenix Life needs to make good the 
difference of £772, adding 8% simple  per annum to this amount, calculated  gross but paid 
net of tax, from 20 November 2018 until it settles.
residual fund
After dealing with the tax-free  element of Miss Bs pension pot I turn to the residual fund 
value (the remaining funds available for investment). Here we take a different approach  to 
understand any potential financial impact. We look to establish  how the money wouldve 
been invested if things had gone  to plan. And if thats not clear, we consider the consumers 
attitude to risk and use a benchmark that reflects  this.
The investigator considered what Miss B told us about her plans and used information from 
one of the FAs she engaged in 2018  to think about  this. He noted Miss Bs residual funds 
had been invested in cash from November  2018.  But he felt this most likely  reflected the 
uncertain position she was in due to the delays putting her pension  arrangements  in place. 
The investigator thought that had there been more certainty, Miss B wouldve been prepared  
to take more risk with her investment strategy. I think his approach  is sound.  Although  we 
cant know what Miss B wouldve invested in, the benchmark he used as a proxy  for the 
performance of an investment fund where the consumer was willing  to take some  risk was 
reasonable.
The index the investigator used was the FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return 
Index. He noted the level of the index on the appropriate dates in July and November 2018. 
There was a small downward movement. So, if the residual fund had been  invested with a 
provider on or around July 2018  it would have lost a little value.
Ref: DRN04418519The fund Miss B received in November 2018 was over £2,000  higher than she wouldve 
received in July 2018. As around £1,500 of this wouldve been in the residual fund, its 
arguable that in this narrow respect  Miss B ended  up in a better financial position as a result 
of the delay. Certainly, it wouldnt  be reasonable for me to conclude Miss B has suffered a 
financial loss in respect of the residual value of her pension proceeds.
Miss B says that Phoenix Life should pay the costs  she incurred for transferring her pension 
fund to another provider. Shed been expecting to exercise the options she eventually took, 
with her existing provider at no cost.  Instead, shes incurred over £3,600  in fees.
Based on my previous findings about the information Phoenix Life had issued over previous 
years, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to direct it to pay Miss Bs pension  transfer  
fees. These  are fees incurred as a result of the decisions  shes made about what to do with 
her pension fund.
At one stage  in her communication with us, Miss B also said she wouldve accepted the 
proposal she received  from Phoenix Life in June 2018 which set out an annual  GMP of 
around £14,000 rather than wait the time she had to secure her pension  benefits. I can see 
two main problems with this argument:
-The GMP figures provided in June  2018 were wrong  the real value of her GMP was 
less than 50% of what shed  been told. And although frustrating, Miss B told us this 
was the first time shed been  made aware  of the GMP figures  and I can see from her 
testimony that almost  immediately on receipt of the numbers her FA was in contact 
with Phoenix Life which  then confirmed a problem with the illustration. So, any 
expectation this episode gave rise to was very short lived.
-Miss B has been clear in what she told us about  her retirement option preferences 
throughout. And these were borne out by her decisions subsequently  when  she 
received her pension  benefits. So, it doesnt seem likely that taking a GMP was 
something she was really attracted to. And certainly  not when the accurate value of 
this guarantee  was known because we know she moved  her funds elsewhere  signing 
away this protection.
Consequential losses
Generally, consequential losses are only recoverable to the extent they are caused by the 
original wrongdoing  and are a reasonably foreseeable consequence of it.
New borrowing - Miss B was without her pension benefits for nearly five months.  One 
consequence of this was that she had to take on borrowing to pay for a MOT  and car service  
in August 2018. This meant she incurred interest  charges. Phoenix Life has agreed to meet  
this cost. I think the proposed settlement here is fair. And although Miss B also cites an 
impact on her credit score from arranging  the loan, from whats shes told us this was 
minimal.
Increased accommodation and council tax costs  Miss B thinks Phoenix Life should  pay for 
the rent on her accommodation for the period July 2018 to March 2019.  As the rent was 
£1,500 per month, she asked for £13,500 compensation. The basis for her claim was that 
shed been thinking about changing  her living arrangements. This planning had been 
stymied by the delay  in settling her pension arrangements.
Ref: DRN044185110Miss B had various options in mind. For example, moving to cheaper accommodation, taking 
a life-time lease on a new build by her landlord,  buying overseas, moving to a different  part 
of the country  and a period of house-sitting. She says some of these options were lost due to 
the delay in receipt of her pension benefits.
I understand the argument Miss B is making,  but as the investigator  noted, she had to live 
somewhere and would  therefore have most likely  incurred accommodation costs. She might 
have moved earlier had she received her retirement  benefits in July 2018. But we cant be 
sure, especially  as it seems there were quite  a few options in play. 
Even if Miss B had moved home, we cant know what her costs  wouldve been. So, I cant 
safely estimate what fair compensation would be. And my finding here applies similarly to 
the claim she made for reimbursement of her council tax costs.
Miss B says that she couldve lost everything. She couldve been thrown out by the bailiffs  
onto the streets.  It was only because she had an understanding landlord this didnt happen. 
The undoubted worry of this situation is the sort of thing I think about when considering if an 
award for trouble and upset is appropriate.  So, Ill deal with this separately.
Deferred payment of utility and council tax bills - Miss B told us that she had to arrange 
delayed payment terms with her utility providers and the local council until the arrival of her 
pension payments. Although she managed this and no extra charges were incurred, I 
recognise this caused her some embarrassment and inconvenience. This is another matter 
Ive considered when thinking about  an award  for the trouble and upset  shes  been caused.
Costs of cancelling birthday  celebrations.  Miss B told us about having to cancel her 60th 
birthday celebrations. I recognise why she considered  it impossible to proceed with these 
given the uncertainty over her pension arrangements.  She said the cost alone was about 
£730, covering  invitations, postage and awning work. She also told us about  having to 
cancel a holiday which was part of her special year, although she was able to recoup these 
costs.
Unfortunately, Miss B doesnt have  any receipts for her expenditure. For example, the 
awning work was carried  out by a local elderly person and Miss B didnt want to embarrass  
them by now asking  for a receipt.  Miss B appreciates why this makes it difficult  to make a 
case for reimbursement to Phoenix  Life.
Even more  important to Miss B than the costs she incurred preparing for her birthday 
celebrations, she had to cancel  the event marking her special day. Clearly  this wouldve 
been very upsetting. And I can see that even if shed managed to rearrange things for later it 
wasnt going to be the same. This is another matter Ive thought about as part of the award 
for trouble and upset. 
Loss of income  Miss B has made two main arguments about a claim for loss of income  
resulting from the things  Phoenix Life got wrong.
Firstly, Miss B asked for an award of around  £4,000. This was for a sum equivalent to an 
annuity that was on offer to her in 2018, for the period July to December that year. The 
problem here is that an annuity wasnt an option  she favoured. As we know  she wanted a 
tax-free lump sum and to enter into a flexible drawdown arrangement. Ive already 
considered what  compensation she should receive  in that regard.
Ref: DRN044185111Miss B also told us about her career. She said that if shed known there would be problems 
with getting her pension arrangements sorted then she wouldve made different employment 
choices. She still wouldve  taken the golden  handshake she received from a senior role in 
December 2016  because she was burnt-out  and needed a change of pace.  But instead of 
taking on a part-time retail job, she wouldve sought a more  highly  paid full-time role.
The problem here is we cant know for sure how events mayve  panned out. Would  Miss B 
have secured a new job in the pay bracket  she sought? How soon might she have secured a 
new role?
Im also conscious that Miss B had other  irons  in the fire. She told us about work  on her first 
novel. She contemplated restarting a former successful business enterprise. And she was 
thinking about retraining for a new profession. I think the interplay of all these options with 
how her work plans wouldve materialised makes it very difficult  to safely  arrive at an 
estimate of even potential  losses.
Trouble and upset
Miss B thinks I should award punitive damages for what Phoenix Life got wrong. Im sorry to 
inform her this isnt my role  that would be a matter for the regulator to consider, for 
example where  systemic failings were  discovered.
When Im deciding how to sort out a complaint like this, Ill think about whether its fair to 
award compensation for trouble and upset.  When somethings gone  wrong,  a businesss 
recognition of the emotional and practical  impact can make  a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day  lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations.  For me to award compensation, I need to decide that 
the impact of Phoenix Lifes actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset.  
Its clear to me this was the case.
The delay in sorting out Miss Bs pension  arrangements had a real effect on her plans at an 
important time. Shes suffered a loss of expectation,  for example about how soon and in 
what way she could  explore some  of the exciting  opportunities  shed mapped out for her 
future.
Although its not possible  to safely  estimate what if any consequential financial impact  there  
has been in several  areas where  Miss B has made a claim for compensation, its clear the 
delay in settling  her pension arrangements introduced increased uncertainty into her future  
work/life plans.
Miss B has told us about the effect of these things  on her mental and physical health. For 
example, the stress she experienced when faced with questions from her landlord  and 
friends about what was happening. She said she had trouble sleeping and became 
withdrawn and unsociable.
Miss B says Phoenix Life was responsible for poor customer  service.  For example, her case 
was handled by several different people  leading to inconsistent treatment. She told us that 
even towards the end of the process it made significant errors, such  as sending out the 
wrong pension  transfer  forms and including incorrect details on them. These  things caused  
further delay,  inconvenience and upset.
Ref: DRN044185112Miss B says she incurred  significant costs in dealing  with Phoenix Life, before and while  
bringing her complaint. For example, she had to spend a lot of her time, as did her FAs, in 
pursuing matters. She also mentioned expenditure on stationery, postage and printing.
Phoenix Life has got things wrong.  It bears  the main responsibility  for the significant  delay in 
Miss B receiving  her pension benefits. This had various knock  on effects  to her work/life 
plans. And it clearly ruined her 60th birthday celebrations.
In many of the areas Miss B has highlighted to us, including her career  and accommodation 
choices, I cant know how things mayve  turned out. But clearly the delay introduced 
unwelcome uncertainty into her plans across a breadth  of areas. And it mayve  led to missed 
opportunities or delays in her realising  some of her goals.
Taking these and all other matters  into consideration in this case, I think a substantial award 
for trouble and upset is appropriate. Phoenix Life made an offer of £1,000.  I think this was a 
reasonable starting point, but on reflection I think a higher award of £1,500 is appropriate.
I know Miss B will be disappointed by the overall outcome, but I hope at the very least  my 
decision will help draw this matter to a close so she can focus on her future.
putting things right - summary
So, to summarise, I require Phoenix  Life Assurance Limited to put matters right by 
compensating Miss B in the following way:
-To pay her £772 in recognition of the lost investment opportunity  caused  by the late 
receipt of her tax-free cash. Add to this interest at 8% simple per annum (paid net) 
from 20 November 2018 to the date of settlement.
-To meet the interest incurred on the loan she took out in 2018 to meet the costs  of 
her car MOT and service.
-To pay her £1,500  for the substantial trouble and upset it caused her through the 
things it got wrong.
These sums  would be reduced by any compensation Phoenix  Life has already paid to Miss 
B in respect of these matters.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Miss Bs complaint but not to the extent she 
wanted. Phoenix Life Assurance  Limited must put matters right in the way Ive set out.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0441851