K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that the car he acquired  through a hire purchase  agreement (HPA) with 
Advantage Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory quality. He says that although repairs were 
undertaken issues remain.
background 
Mr L entered into a HPA with Advantage Finance in November 2017  to acquire a used car. 
He says there was an initial problem with the gearbox which was repaired by the retailer.  
Following this the service  light came  on. In January 2018, it was agreed the car would be 
serviced. Mr L says that there were delays  and he was concerned that the service didnt take 
place.
A few weeks  later the service light came on again and he was told that it was possible  the 
light wasnt reset. Then there was an issue with the cooling fan remaining on. He says that 
Advantage Finance said the issues were  wear and tear but he didnt agree. He says that 
following the inspection  report  carried  out on behalf of Advantage Finance he had his own 
inspection report carried out which showed issues with the car. He wanted the car repaired.
In its response to Mr Ls original complaint, Advantage Finance says that it engaged with 
Mr L in regard to the issues he raised but that it hadnt been provided with conclusive 
evidence that the issues he was experiencing with his car were  present from the point of 
supply. 
Advantage Finance says the car passed  and MOT before supply and that no advisories were 
recorded. It says had the service light been  on at that time it would have been noted. It 
further says that the pre-delivery inspection confirmed there  were  no issues with the head 
gasket, coolant  or overheating  and that an independent inspection  report  said that the issues  
identified with Mr Ls car were not present at the point of supply.
Our adjudicator thought the evidence suggested  that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality  at 
the point of supply noting that on balance she thought the faults  with the service light and 
cooling fan had been developing at the point of sale. Because of this she recommended  that 
Advantage Finance cover  the cost of the repair of the vehicle. In the event the car was not 
repairable she recommended that Advantage  Finance consider Mr Ls right to reject the car.
Following our adjudicators view,  Advantage Finance agreed to inspect the car. The 
inspection was carried out and it was confirmed  that the head gasket and thermostat needed  
to be replaced. This took place at no cost to Mr L. While this was taking place Mr L was 
without his car and I understand  no courtesy  car was provided. In recognition  of the time 
Mr L spent without his car Advantage Finance refunded charges that had been applied to his 
account due to it being in arrears. It also agreed to refund the £12 charge that would be 
applied to his account on a monthly basis while the arrears were outstanding.  
Overall, our adjudicator thought this was a reasonable remedy.
Mr L said that after the repair he had problems starting the car. He also noted that one of the 
panels was opened. He asked for a copy  of the outcome of the investigation and details of 
the repairs carried out. He said that although the issues he had initially  complained about 
had been repaired  he had been left with a further  issue.
Ref: DRN03586222Mr L was sent a copy of the invoice for the work undertaken but said this didnt answer  his 
question. He asked why there was an open panel  in the boot and why he now had difficulty  
starting the car. In March  2019, Mr L noted an issue with a possible coolant leak.
Advantage Finance asked for further evidence regarding the coolant  leak and said that this 
was a new issue.
Mr L didnt accept that anything he had raised after the repairs  were new issues.  He said 
they were linked to the problems he had been  experiencing  from the start.  He asked that the 
car was investigated again and that any required  repairs  were  carried out at no cost to him.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint. I noted there were three main aspects to 
this complaint. The first related to the service light coming on and the cooling fan remaining  
on. The second related  to the issues  raised by the MOT in October 2018. The third related to 
the issues raised after the investigation and repairs undertaken in January 2019. I have set 
out my conclusions in regard to each of these  issues:
Issue 1: service light and cooling fan (and issues arising from the investigation of these) 
repairs were  carried  out at no cost to Mr L and evidence of the work undertaken was 
provided. I found this a reasonable remedy. 
Mr L was without  his car for a period of two weeks  and wasnt provided with a 
replacement vehicle.  I found  that the action taken by Advantage Finance in regard  to 
certain other refunds was sufficient  to cover the loss of use Mr L experienced.
Issue 2: issues raised by the MOT in October 2018
Mr L had to replace  three tyres when the car went for a MOT in October 2018. I 
found it reasonable to accept that the issues with the tyres (two worn and one with 
two nails in) were due to wear  and tear and that the tyres were of a reasonable 
quality at the point of supply. I didnt require Advantage Finance to do anything 
further in regard to this issue.
Issue 3: issues raised after the investigation  and repairs undertaken in January 2019
I thought the fair resolution was for Advantage Finance  to arrange for an independent  
inspection of the car. I said that if this identified  ongoing issues with the car that were 
present or developing at the point  of supply then it would  be reasonable that Mr L 
would be given  the option of either  rejecting the car or having repairs  undertaken at 
no cost to him. If no issues were identified  or if there were issues  but these are found 
to be unrelated and not present or developing from the point of supply then I would 
not expect Advantage Finance to do anything further.
Advantage Finance arranged for an independent inspection to be carried out. This took 
place on 24 May 2019. The report said that there  were no stored or pending fault codes 
within the car's  electronic  control unit memory and there were no issues  identified  on the 
road test. It concluded that any previous repairs had been successful and that there was no 
reason why the car couldnt  be returned  to normal service.
Ref: DRN03586223my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to consider each case  based 
on its individual merits. I take relevant regulations  into account but my decision is based on 
what I consider fair and reasonable  given the unique  circumstances of each complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities - that is what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr L provided evidence  of issues regarding a coolant leak for which repairs were  undertaken 
at his cost. While I note the points  he has raised  as I dont have any evidence  to suggest that 
this issue was present  at the point of supply, I do not find I have enough to say that 
Advantage Finance is responsible for this cost.
The recommendations of my provisional decision were carried out and an independent 
inspection took place. As I set out in my provisional  decision, the results of this would 
determine what, if any further  action would be required.
The inspection reports found  no faults with the car and concluded that any previous repairs 
had been successful. A copy  of this report was sent by Advantage Finance to Mr L and I 
note his comments in regard to this. 
So while I appreciate the comments Mr L has made about the issues with the car starting, as 
the inspection  found no faults  I do not have evidence to say there are any ongoing issues 
with the car. Because of this, on balance, I accept  that the car is now of a satisfactory quality 
and so Advantage Finance is not required to do anything further in response  to this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Advantage Finance Ltd is not required to do anything further in 
response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0358622