K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that BMW  Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) unfairly charged 
him interest  when he made an early repayment of the amount financed under  a hire 
purchase agreement  for a new car.
background
In July 2017 Mr T arranged a 48 month hire purchase agreement  with BMWFS for a new 
car. Mr T says he asked the salesman at the dealership whether there  was any penalty  
or charge incurred  if the agreement was paid off early and was told that there wasnt.
Mr T also says before signing the financial agreement he was provided with a Summary 
of Finance Discussion  document  and asked to sign it. This document confirmed Mr T had 
received the initial  disclosure document, been told the benefits of hire purchase and 
personal contract plans  and had received the pre-contract  information  (the SECCI). Mr T 
says he told the salesman  that he hadnt  had the SECCI but says he was told to sign the 
document anyway  and the SECCI would  be sent out to him.
Mr T signed  the summary document and then signed  the hire purchase agreement a 
couple of days later. Mr T says he never  received the SECCI.
In July 2018 Mr T asked for the settlement amount  on the car and paid off the balance. He 
was unhappy  that the settlement figure included an extra  two months interest.  He rang and 
made a complaint to BMWFS. Mr T says that BMWFS refused to open  his complaint that 
the agreement  had been mis-sold, and told him that would be something hed need to direct  
to the dealership.
Mr T decided to email  BMWFS with his complaint about the added  interest  included  in 
the settlement  figure. He also sent a second email  complaining that he hadnt received 
the SECCI.
BMWFS didnt uphold  his complaint about the agreement being mis-sold. It said it 
would need evidence that Mr T had been  promised  he wouldnt incur costs  when he 
settled the agreement early. It didnt comment on the lack of SECCI.
Mr T complained to this service. Our adjudicator didnt recommend that his complaint should 
be upheld. He said that he accepted  on the balance of probabilities that Mr T hadnt 
received a copy of the SECCI but didnt think this had had a detrimental impact on him.
He said Mr T hadnt queried the lack of SECCI for a year and this document  hadnt 
mentioned the early  settlement  charges  in any event,  so not having it hadnt put him in 
a worse position.
Our adjudicator said that on the day Mr T had signed the hire purchase agreement  hed 
also signed an Explanation Document which had given the key features of the agreement. 
This included You can repay the credit early  in full or in part at any time by giving us 
notice. Please see under Early Repayment in the agreement. If you make a full or partial 
early repayment we will be entitled  to charge  you interest in accordance with consumer 
credit legislation.
Ref: DRN02891882By signing both of these  documents Mr T had shown he was happy  with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement. And although  our adjudicator  said he appreciated the 
document signing process had been  rushed on the day, he couldnt say BMWFS  was at 
fault if Mr T hadnt read the documentation provided.
Our adjudicator said that the interest  charge  added to the settlement figure was addressed 
in the Explanation Document. And that BMWFS  hadnt determined  the amount of interest  to 
add, but applied the charge set out in the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974 which was applicable 
to all agreements of this nature.
He also said he was happy Mr T had been  given enough information  that an early  
settlement interest  charge  would be applicable.
Mr T disagreed with our adjudicators view.  He said the SECCI should have contained 
details of the early  settlement  charge  and, if it didnt, then he didnt think  that BMWFS 
had the right to charge  the fee. Mr T said either  BMWFS hadnt provided  the SECCI  - 
thereby not giving him the right information to make  an informed choice - or the SECCI 
had been provided but hadnt  given the right the information to allow  him to make  
informed choice. So either way it was at fault.
Mr T said the adjudicator  hadnt dealt with the issue that BMWFS  had refused  to record his 
second complaint  about the lack of SECCI and hadnt provided  a final response to that 
point. He said this had caused  him added stress and inconvenience.
As the parties  were  unable to agree  the complaint was passed to me. I issued  a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Id seen copies  of various emails between Mr T and the dealership, but there  werent 
any records of phone  calls or notes of what was said when Mr T had visited and 
ordered the new car. So I didnt know what was said by the salesman about  early 
settlement of the agreement to Mr T.
Mr T said that when hed asked about  early settlement of the agreement he was told that 
he wouldnt  incur any costs if he did so. And section  56 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 
(CCA) says a lender  like BMWFS  might be liable for what's said in pre-contract discussions  
by the dealer. Mr T said that the dealer misrepresented the amount he'd have to pay on 
early settlement and, as he was deprived  of the SECCI and rushed through the paperwork, he 
wasnt able to make  an informed choice about whether this was the right agreement  for his 
needs.
Id seen that Mr T signed to say hed received a copy of the SECCI, but said hed only done 
so after speaking with the salesman who said the document  would be sent out to him. Mr T 
said that this didnt then happen, but he didnt appear to have raised  this missing document 
again until one year had passed after hed entered into the agreement.
I appreciated the purpose of the SECCI was to give the consumer time to consider the 
terms and conditions of an agreement before signing and agreeing to be bound by them. 
Mr T said that as it was never provided he wasnt fully informed about  the hire purchase 
agreements terms and conditions and so was unable to make an informed choice about 
whether the agreement was suitable to his needs  or not.
Ref: DRN02891883Mr T also said that not being provided  with a SECCI meant the contract may be 
unenforceable. However, whether a contract  was enforceable in these circumstances 
would be a matter  for a court rather than our service. My remit was to look at the fairness,  
or otherwise, of what had happened
Id seen a copy  of the SECCI that was prepared for Mr T. It set out the various terms and 
conditions of the agreement, but simply said there  was a right to pay the credit  either  fully or 
in part early at any time.  It didnt set out how settlement figures were reached.
I didnt think I needed to resolve whether or not Mr T had received the SECCI, since  
even if hed got it the two months  of interest being  added to the settlement figure wasnt 
included.
Id seen that the early  settlement figure  had been  calculated in line with the Consumer 
Credit (Early Settlement)  Regulations 2004. The regulations require lenders to work out 
the total interest payable  as if the loan had remained outstanding for the remainder of 
the term.  That amount was then reduced by giving an interest rebate to reflect  that the 
loan was being repaid  early. But the regulations allow lenders to defer the date of the 
calculation - in this case  by a sum equivalent  to 56 days' interest  - where  the loan is for 
more than a year.
This meant that BMWFS  was entitled  to charge the interest as it was in accordance with 
consumer credit legislation. And this information was contained the Explanation 
Document  which Mr T had signed. Mr T said he wasnt given time to read the 
documents when  at the dealership, but I didnt think it was fair to hold BMWFS 
responsible if he didnt read an agreement he was going to sign. I thought  it was a 
reasonable expectation that Mr T had checked the agreement before signing.  I was also 
satisfied that the Explanation Document, which was three pages, clearly set out the 
applicable terms and conditions.
So I was satisfied that BMWFS  had the ability to include the interest charges that it did in 
the event of an early  settlement.
 
Looking at whether the agreement was mispresented, I needed to be satisfied that 
the dealer probably told Mr T something that wasn't true and that untrue statement on its 
own induced  him to take out this hire purchase agreement. But I should make it clear at 
the outset that, even if I accepted there's been  a misrepresentation, the appropriate 
remedy would be to put Mr T back in the position  he would have been  in if the 
misrepresentation hadn't been made.
Taking into account the evidence, I accepted that it was likely there was an untrue  
statement by the dealership as to the effect of settling the agreement early. And I was 
reasonably sure that the statement from the dealer about  there  not being any early 
settlement fees would  have been  an important factor  in Mr T taking out the hire 
purchase agreement.  But I didnt  think he would have  acted differently if hed been  aware  
that interest would be charged  in line with the legislation, as I thought it was highly 
unlikely he would have found a regulated agreement that didnt apply the same 
early settlement calculation as provided  for in the Act. So I didnt think this agreement  
was to Mr Ts financial detriment.
Ref: DRN02891884Mr T said if hed been aware of the interest charge hed have decided  to lease the car 
instead - but Im unclear  why that would  put him in a better  financial position. He had 
chosen to settle the agreement  and own the car, but he didnt need to do so as under the 
agreement  he could have returned  it at the end of the 48 months. So I thought  it was 
likely hed wanted to own the car.
Mr T was upset  that BMWFS hadnt treated  his complaint about the lack of SECCI  as a 
separate issue and that it had never  responded on that matter. While I appreciated this 
would have been frustrating, I didnt  think this issue merited compensation of its own.  I 
thought Mr Ts complaint  about the lack of SECCI was, in reality, intrinsically linked to his 
complaint about  the interest charges and BMWFS  had responded to that. The lack of a 
separate final response letter hadnt prevented Mr T from being  able to raise that issue 
with this service.
So looking  at the evidence, I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Id seen that 
the dealership  had made a gesture of goodwill and offered a payment of £250 to Mr T, 
which hed declined. It was a matter  for the dealership whether that offer was still open.
Mr T said he was disappointed at my provisional  decision. He said that the salesmans 
comments about there being  no settlement  fees should have consequences. That I 
hadnt recognised the delay in getting the final response letter  from BMWFS or that it 
hadnt issued  the SECCI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr T is frustrated by my view but I think I have covered the issues raised in 
his complaint in my provisional decision.
I accepted that it was likely the salesman hadnt told Mr T that there  would be costs incurred 
if he then made an early settlement of the agreement. I also accepted that Mr T had relied 
on that statement. However, I then had to go on consider whether this had put Mr T in a 
detrimental position and I didnt think that it had. 
Looking at the evidence again I havent  changed my view about that as the charges were  all 
in line with the legislation. This means  it was highly unlikely  Mr T would have been able to 
find a financial agreement  that didnt include these costs for an early settlement. I also dont 
accept, for the reasons  given  above, that Mr T would have instead chosen to lease a car.
I have set out why I didnt  think  I needed  to resolve  the issue as to whether the SECC  had 
been provided or not. And although I appreciate Mr T disagrees with my approach he hasnt 
raised any new point  for me to consider so Im satisfied  Ive covered the issues  Mr T had 
raised in reaching  my view on that point.
I appreciate Mr T feels I havent held BMWFS  accountable  for the failings of the salesman or 
of the way it handled his complaint.  But Ive seen that BMWFS had responded to Mr Ts 
complaint about  the car being mis-sold although  that response didnt address the issue  
about the lack of SECCI. However this response  letter set out his rights  to come to this 
Ref: DRN02891885service so I dont think the fact the SECCI point  wasnt included had put Mr T at any 
disadvantage in bringing his complaint to us and this omission merited compensation.
So for the reasons given above  Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
my final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 December  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0289188