K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the advice he received from Anthony  Feeney  Financial  Services  
(AFFS) to transfer his existing pension plans into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). 
The reason  for making the transfer was to allow  Mr C to invest  in store pods through Store 
First. Mr Cs complaint  is made, on his behalf, by his representative. 
background
During 2013, Mr C was put in touch with AFFS by an unregulated third party.  It seems  the 
third party had told him about  investing his pensions in store pods. So he spoke to AFFS 
about this. An adviser from AFFS carried out a review of his circumstances.  It then advised  
Mr C to transfer his existing personal pension plans to a SIPP. This was so he could then 
invest in store pods,  an unregulated investment. 
Mr Cs two existing pensions had a transfer  value  of around £114,000. These were 
transferred to the SIPP in January 2014.  The following month, two investments totalling 
£76,500 were made in store pods. In March 2014  AFFS  then advised  Mr C to make a further 
investment of over £11,000 in a Nucleus  portfolio.  The store  pods investments now appear 
to be illiquid. Mr C is worried  hes lost the value  of his investments. 
So in June  2016 Mr C complained, via his representative, to AFFS about the advice hed 
received. In brief, he said: the advice  from AFFS hadnt followed the relevant regulations;  
and, Mr Cs attitude to risk was stated  to be balanced but, after he took a tax free lump sum, 
89% of the remaining  fund was then invested  in high risk investments  how does this match  
his balanced attitude to risk? 
AFFS rejected the complaint. Again in brief, it said: Mr C wanted advice on the best way to 
make a partial withdrawal  of his pension benefits;  AFFS advised him on this but didnt 
provide any advice on the suitability of the proposed  investment; and it made Mr C fully 
aware of the risks associated with the proposed  investments. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this response. So he brought the complaint to us. Mr C said he 
wanted to be put back  in the position he would  now be in if he hadnt made the transfers. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into it. In summary,  he thought  the complaint should  be 
upheld. The adjudicator said: Mr C had a balanced attitude to risk; no reason had been given 
as to why he would want to increase the risk to his pension fund so close  to retirement; the 
funds were invested in a high risk investment not suited  to someone with a balanced attitude 
to risk; the evidence didnt  show Mr C needed to take a lump sum payment from his pension; 
and, there  were no warnings about  the direct  risks that could be associated with this type of 
investment. The adjudicator then set out how he thought AFFS needed to put things right.  
AFFS, via its original  representative, didnt accept the adjudicators view. It said: AFFS 
recommended the transfer to the SIPP so Mr C could  access  his 25% tax free cash; he 
expressly didnt seek  advice about  the suitability of the investment; he expressly  stated he 
understood the additional risks associated  with the investment; a store pods investment isnt 
either a specified  investment or a designated investment, so the relevant rules  didnt apply; 
even if the relevant rules did apply, AFFS had acted  consistently with them;  and, Mr C 
ignored the warnings  given by AFFS about  the investment, but still chose to go ahead with it. 
This meant Mr C exposed himself to the detriment  hes now complaining about  its not 
been caused by the advice given by AFFS. It then asked  for an oral hearing to be held by us 
if the adjudicator  disagreed with its response. 
Ref: DRN05325792Our adjudicator did disagree. So AFFS repeated its request for a hearing to be held. It also 
repeated that store  pods  werent either a specified investment or a designated  investment as 
set out in the relevant  regulations  so we are wrongly classifying these as an unregulated 
collective investment scheme  (UCIS). 
As AFFS  didnt agree  with the adjudicators  view,  this complaint has been passed  to me for a 
decision.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision dated 22 July 2019.  In it, I explained that Id considered  all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to decide  what was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I decided  to uphold this complaint. I went  
on to explain why. 
I pointed out that I was very aware that Id summarised this complaint in far less detail and in 
my own words. I said I wasnt  going to respond  to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy was intended by this. Instead, Id focussed on what  I thought was 
the key issue  here: was AFFS  advice to Mr C to transfer his existing pensions to a SIPP 
suitable? 
I explained our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature of our 
service. If there was something  Id not mentioned,  it wasnt because Id ignored it. I hadnt. I 
was satisfied I didnt  need to comment on every  individual argument to be able to reach what 
I thought was the right outcome. 
I then turned to the matter of the hearing  request.  The original representative for AFFS 
requested that we hold an oral hearing  to decide  this case fairly. But since  that hearing 
request, AFFS had changed  representatives.  The original representative for AFFS stated the 
reason it wanted  a hearing was to discuss the matters set out in its initial  rejection of our 
adjudicators view. The new representative has been silent  on the matter  of a hearing.  
I repeated that Id reviewed all the available evidence and arguments. Having done  so, I was 
satisfied a hearing wasnt needed. I said this because I thought all parties had been  able to 
state their cases clearly in the numerous  submissions that had been made. 
I understood AFFS might be disappointed  by this. But I added  its very rare that a complaint 
cant be fairly decided  without a hearing. This is because, unlike a court, we dont just rely on 
the parties involved to prove their own case. We have the power  to make our own 
investigation. If particular  information is needed  to decide a complaint fairly, there are very 
few cases where we cant request it from either side or a third party.  
Even without  a hearing, it was still possible for AFFS to make the key points  of its case out 
loud  either directly  or through its representative.  It could  have  spoken  to the adjudicator  
and a recording of the call added to our case file for me to listen  to. Or a recording could 
have been left on the phone without interruption. If AFFS  wanted  to do this, I invited it to 
contact the adjudicator within two weeks to arrange  this. But neither AFFS nor its 
representative responded to this invitation. 
I then turned to our jurisdiction. In general terms, the original representative  for AFFS argued 
that the store pods investment wasnt either a specified investment or a designated  
Ref: DRN05325793investment. AFFS also sent us a legal opinion that store pods arent  an UCIS. This meant 
the advice to invest in store pods wasnt an activity  covered by our service.  
But the advice  to invest in store pods wasnt the activity Im looking at. Im looking at the 
advice Mr C was given  to open a SIPP. That is a regulated activity. It doesnt matter  whether 
or not the store pods investment was either  a specified investment or a designated 
investment or an UCIS. 
I went on to say the rules  that AFFS had to follow are set out in the regulators handbook. 
The advice given  to Mr C needed to take into account the relevant rules. This is irrespective 
of whether the store pods investment was or wasnt  a regulated product. The regulations 
required the advice  given to Mr C to be suitable.  To do that, AFFS had to get enough 
information about his circumstances. 
AFFS completed a fact find for Mr C. This was signed by him in October 2013. It recorded 
some of his personal  circumstances. But not much detail at all was included. No outgoings 
were listed.  There  was no mention  of Mr C having  any assets, savings or other investments 
other than his existing  pension  plans.  The fact find did state he had two dependant  adult 
children. AFFS response to Mr Cs complaint stated he had a home valued in the region of 
£340,000 and had rental properties. But none  of this was recorded on the fact find. I wasnt  
satisfied AFFS  could  adequately assess Mr Cs needs based  on such  limited information. 
The fact find said that Mr Cs existing  pension plans didnt represent  a significant part of his 
overall financial wealth.  But it wasnt clear at all how this conclusion  was arrived  at. As Id 
said, there was no record on the fact find of him having any other assets,  savings or 
investments. 
The fact find listed five levels of risk under a section titled risk and reward.  These  ranged  
from very cautious to speculative.  The third box balanced  was ticked. This attitude to 
risk was explained as:
You prefer to invest in broad range of core stock-market linked investments, where  the 
overall returns achieved  are more closely linked to the performance of the underlying assets. 
In so doing, this will provide  you with the potential to benefit from real capital growth. 
However, you should be aware  that investment values will fluctuate according  to market 
conditions.
The following  was also ticked:
I am an infrequent investor. However,  I have a reasonable working  knowledge and 
understanding of investment markets and the relationship between risk and reward  in those  
markets.
It hasnt been  disputed that Mr C had a balanced attitude to risk. But there was no detail on 
how his knowledge  and understanding of investments was checked. The available  evidence  
didnt point to him having any degree  of investment  knowledge or understanding. Mr C 
certainly didnt seem  to have invested  in high risk, speculative products before. And as Id 
already said, the fact find didnt record him as having any other investments at all. 
Given Mr Cs limited investment experience and understanding, I was satisfied he was 
relying on AFFS to give him suitable  advice. It was important for the advice  from AFFS to 
take into account Mr Cs capacity to put his existing pension funds at risk. I could see the 
Ref: DRN05325794fact find said he was self-employed  with a yearly income  of around £30,000. As Id already 
said, the fact find stated Mr Cs existing pensions werent a significant proportion  of his 
financial wealth. But I wasnt satisfied this was a realistic record of his situation. 
Mr C was 59 years old at the time of the advice. I thought it was more likely than not, being 
close to retirement age, a pension  pot of nearly four times Mr Cs annual  income would  have 
been a very significant part of his financial wealth. So I wasnt  satisfied Mr C could afford  for 
the value of his investments to fall in value, or be lost completely. 
Later in the fact find, Mr C was asked if he was planning to invest  in an unregulated or 
alternative investment.  The answer  Store First Non Regulated was given. The handwritten  
note at the bottom of this section stated:  
I have always had mainstream funds.  But now I know alternative is [sic] available I prefer 
that. I understand how store first works vs stock market and like fixed 2 year return.
But again,  it wasnt clear  to me how this position  was arrived at. Mr C wasnt  an experienced 
investor. He hadnt  made this type of investment before. The nature of this type of 
investment wasnt consistent with his stated balanced attitude  to risk. 
AFFS then issued a financial planning report.  This seems to have  been  provided to Mr C 
after the fact find was completed. Hed told us he received it in December 2013.  The copy  Id 
seen wasnt signed  or dated. 
The report  said Mr C was an infrequent investor.  It stated he especially liked the control that 
a SIPP  would give by allowing him to take a more active  role in choosing what he deemed  
were suitable investments  rather than the traditional funds in his existing plans.  The report  
also said Mr C had two children who werent financially dependent. But this was at odds with 
the fact find which stated his children  were financially dependent. 
The report  also said Mr C wanted to take tax free cash from his fund immediately. But this 
had been directly contradicted by Mr C. He told us that he didnt  know he could take any tax 
free cash. He didnt need it and there  was no pressing  reason to take it. Mr C said the 
availability of the tax free cash was described to him as a nice  taster. 
The investment strategy section of the report said Mr C sought advice from AFFS about the 
intention of investing in commercial property,  store pods in particular. It said he hadnt  
sought advice  about the suitability of this investment and had stated he was an experienced 
investor who understood the additional  risks associated with such  an investment. But both 
the fact find and the opening summary of the report contradict this position.  They  both said 
Mr C was an infrequent investor. So I wasnt satisfied this was an accurate reflection of 
Mr Cs understanding  of the risks. 
Even after the risks had been explained to Mr C, given  his limited knowledge and 
understanding of this type of investment, I wasnt satisfied he would have had a good  
enough understanding of the risks to adequately judge the suitability of the store  pods 
investment. Mr C would  have been heavily reliant  on AFFS. 
In any event, the report then went on to consider the proposed store  pods investment. It said 
AFFS had done  research to familiarise itself with the investment. It listed  some of the risks 
involved. This included investing in a single undertaking or having one investment as a large 
part of Mr Cs pension assets  bringing considerable risk. 
Ref: DRN05325795This section  of the report ended by saying  in bold type  that Mr Cs fund shouldnt  be 
placed in one asset class.  Instead, it should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a 
number of asset classes. But at the time,  the report didnt make  any recommendation of 
alternative investments  that could be used. I could  see that a few months after the advice 
from AFFS, it did contact  Mr C about another investment. In March 2014  he invested  around 
£11,000 in a Nucleus portfolio. 
I went on to say that while dealing with this complaint, I was very aware that the FCA, and its 
predecessor, the Financial Services Authority, issued alerts  about advising on pension  
transfers. These dealt  with transfers  to invest pension funds into unregulated products 
through a SIPP.  One of these was published  in early  January 2013,  some months before the 
advice given by AFFS. Another one was issued in April 2014. These alerts didnt change  or 
alter the regulations in any way. Instead, they simply re-stated the principles that were 
already in place  when  AFFS advised  Mr C. 
The 2013  alert clearly stated the regulators position  when it said: 
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating . 
I was satisfied it wasnt possible for AFFS to advise  Mr C on the suitability of the SIPP 
without also considering how he planned to invest. It was very clear  to me that AFFS knew  
all along that Mr C intended to invest in store pods.  With this in mind, I didnt think  it was 
suitable to advise Mr C to transfer  his existing pensions into a SIPP  to allow  him to make this 
investment. 
AFFS did set out some  risks of investing  in store  pods in the suitability report. These were: 
Investment in a single undertaking  or having one investment as a large part of a
schemes assets brings considerable risk.
The buyer may grant a lease for a term of 6 years to the Seller at fixed rents that are
stepped throughout the term.  This is an attractive  option for the Buyer  as it would
appear to provide a guaranteed income for 6 years after purchasing  the property,
however after the initial  period stated, there is no guarantee of occupancy  or rate of
return.
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of
unnocupancy [sic], surplus funds may have to be used up to cover the annual sipp 
fees, service charge,  buildings  insurance and electricity rent in addition to the 
nominal ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions 
to the scheme  if there are insufficient funds available to cover the fees.
You must consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist
commercial property such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure
Ref: DRN05325796pension benefits  at your chosen retirement  age via an annuity.
The investment  comes with a buy back guarantee which  does reduce the inherent
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company.
As Id already said, the report went on to say I recommend that your fund  is not placed 
within one asset class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across a number 
of asset classes. But I didnt think this went far enough. There  was no warning to Mr C that 
all of his investment was potentially  at risk. With his limited investment experience,  I wasnt  
satisfied he realised the extent of the risk he was taking  with his existing pensions.  AFFS 
should have been much clearer  in its warnings to him. 
The store pods investment was unregulated. It was a specialised, non-mainstream  type of 
investment. I thought  it was also a high risk investment that wasnt suitable for somebody  
with Mr Cs balanced attitude to risk. AFFS had identified  this type of investment as 
inherently illiquid. The available evidence didnt  show me that Mr C was fully aware of the 
risks involved in investing in store pods. I was satisfied  the investment wasnt suitable for 
him  and thats what AFFS  should have told him. 
I was satisfied that if Mr Cs balanced  attitude  to risk had been accurately reflected, and if 
AFFS had correctly identified that he didnt need to take his tax free cash, his existing  
pensions, or a similar plan, would have been  suitable for his needs. I thought  suitable  advice 
should have been not to invest in store pods. If that advice had been  given,  I didnt think  
Mr C would have transferred his existing pensions  to the SIPP. There would have simply 
been no need for the SIPP. So the advice  to open  a SIPP was unsuitable  for Mr Cs 
circumstances. 
fair compensation
I said my aim is to put Mr C into the position he would probably now be in if he had been 
given suitable  advice. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but I was 
satisfied Mr C would have  either kept his existing pensions or maybe  transferred them to a 
new pension  scheme. In either case,  the redress Ive suggested below gives  a broadly 
similar result. I was also satisfied that it was fair and reasonable given Mr Cs circumstances 
and objectives  when he invested. 
what should  AFFS do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, AFFS must:
Compare the performance of Mr Cs investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the fair 
value is greater than the actual value , there  is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If the 
actual value is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
 
If there is a loss, AFFS should  pay into Mr Cs pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if 
it would  conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
I think its unlikely AFFS will be unable to pay the compensation into Mr Cs pension plan. If 
this is the case,  it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into 
Ref: DRN05325797the plan, it would have provided  a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Cs marginal rate of tax in retirement.  I 
think Mr C is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement. The reduction  should equal the 
current basic rate of tax. But as Mr C would  have been able to take a tax free lump  sum,  the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. 
AFFS should pay Mr C £300  for the disruption caused to his retirement planning. 
AFFS should add interest  as set out below.  Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. 
If AFFS deducts income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr C how much  has been  taken  
off. AFFS should give Mr C a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.  
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
isnt paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it couldnt be readily  sold on the open market)  as in this case.  
So, the actual  value should  be assumed to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. AFFS 
should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to 
the pension provider. This amount  should  be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as I set out above. 
If AFFS is unable to buy the investment, AFFS may require that Mr C provides  an 
undertaking to pay AFFS any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. AFFS will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking. 
I think its very likely  Mr C will have  to maintain the SIPP for a period  of time as the store 
pods investment cant be sold. This will stop the SIPP  from being  closed. If AFFS is unable 
Ref: DRN05325798to buy the store pods investment from the SIPP provider, it should  pay Mr C five years worth  
of SIPP  fees to compensate him for these costs.  
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if AFFS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.  
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr Cs 
circumstances and risk attitude. 
I then gave all parties  two weeks to raise  any further  points if they wished to do so. Mr Cs 
representative confirmed  it had received my provisional decision and had no further points to 
make. AFFS didnt provide a response. 
my findings
Ive considered afresh all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and as no additional 
points have been raised, I see no reason to depart  from my provisional findings  and 
decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Anthony Feeney Financial Services should 
calculate the loss and pay compensation to Mr C as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0532579