K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains  that the Bank  of Scotland  pie (trading  as "Halifax")  unfairly  declined  his 
claim  under  section  75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974  ("CCA"),  for a refund  of a 
mortgage  product  fee when  he didn't  subsequently  take out the home  loan.
background
In October  2017  Mr S completed  an online  mortgage  application  via a mortgage  broker's  
website.  The broker  says  that they advised  Mr S to add the product  fee to the loan,  but that 
Mr S decided  to pay it upfront.  Mr S says  that he decided  to pay the fee upfront  to save  
having  to pay additional  interest  on that amount,  but that he wasn't  advised  if he did so the 
fee would  be non-refundable  if he didn't  proceed  with the mortgage.
In early  November  2017  Mr S paid the product  fee of £999  via his Halifax  credit  card.  He 
received  the mortgage  offer around  three  weeks  later.  The mortgage  offer said that all fees 
that had been  paid were  non-refundable.
Mr S didn't  proceed  with his property  purchase  and so he queried  reimbursement  of the 
product  fee with the mortgage  provider.  It told him to speak  with the broker.  Mr S raised  the 
issue  with the broker  who sent him an email  saying  that as the £999  product  fee had been  
added  to the loan amount  and, as the mortgage  hadn't  proceeded,  he would  not now need  
to pay it. However,  Mr S discovered  that the £999  fee had been  deducted  from his credit  
card balance.
Mr S made  a claim,  under  section  75 CCA,  for the £999  fee to be reimbursed.  He said if 
he had been  told that by paying  the fee upfront  it wouldn't  be reimbursed  if the mortgage  
offer didn't  go ahead,  he wouldn't  have  paid it. He said he hadn't  been  provided  with clear  
information  by either  the broker  or the mortgage  provider  during  the application  process.
Halifax  investigated  Mr S's claim  but declined  it as it said there  had been  no breach  of 
contract  by the supplier  of the services  (the mortgage  provider).  Halifax  said the mortgage  
provider's  terms  and conditions  set out that the fee would  be non-refundable.  And that the 
broker  had provided  a screenshot  which  had shown  Mr S had amended  the mortgage  
application  to say that the fee would  be paid upfront.  The fee had been  paid at the 
beginning  of November  2017  and the mortgage  offer had been  made  around  three  weeks  
later.
Halifax  accepted  that the email  from the broker  to Mr S had indicated  the fee hadn't  been  
paid but actually  when  this had been  sent,  Mr S had already  paid it and the mortgage  offer 
had been  made.  Under  the terms  and conditions,  once  the mortgage  offer had been  made  
the fee became  non-refundable.
Mr S was unhappy  at Halifax's  decision  and complained  to this service.  Our investigator  
didn't  recommend  that Mr S's complaint  should  be upheld.  He said that under  the 
mortgage's  terms  and conditions  fees were  only repayable  in certain  circumstances,  and 
this didn't  include  if the house  purchase  fell through.
Our investigator  also said that Mr S had set out, in his complaint  to this service,  that he 
had chosen  to pay the fee upfront  rather  than add it into the loan.  He said the evidence  
provided  showed  that Mr S had been  the one to request  the fee be taken  upfront,  and not 
the broker.  Mr S had also provided  his credit  card details  to the mortgage  provider  for the 
Ref: DRN09075792fee amount  to have  been  charged  to his account.  Our investigator  said he thought  it likely  
Mr S would  have  been  aware  the payment  had been  taken.
Although  the email  from the broker  and the mortgage  offer both said that the fee hadnt  
been  paid upfront,  our investigator  said this was likely  to be due to an administrative  error.  
This was because  the fee had been  paid by this time.  It also appeared  the broker  wasnt  
aware  the fee had actually  been  paid by Mr S.
Our investigator  said looking  at the evidence  he thought  Halifax  had acted  fairly  in declining  
Mr Ss claim.
Mr S disagreed  with our investigators  view and so the complaint  has been  passed  to me. 
Mr S says  his complaint  is against  both the mortgage  provider  and the broker  as he 
thought  they had a responsibility  to make  the process  clearer  and highlight  the risks  of fees 
being  non-refundable.  I issued  a provisional  decision  along  the following  lines.
Mr Ss complaint  was that Halifax  had declined  his claim  to be reimbursed  the cost of the 
mortgage  product  fee under  section  75 of the CCA.  This section  gives  a consumer  in 
certain  circumstances  equal  right to claim  a refund  against  the supplier  of goods  or services  
and the provider  of credit,  if there  has been  a misrepresentation  or breach  of contract  by the 
supplier.  So, my role was to decide  whether  Halifax  had handled  Mr Ss section  75 claim  
fairly  and reasonably.
Here,  Mr S said that, although  he had chosen  to pay the mortgage  product  fee up front,  he 
hadnt  been  told that this amount  would  be non-refundable  in the event  that the purchase  of 
the property  didnt  proceed.  The broker  said he advised  Mr S that adding  this fee into the 
loan amount  was the best way to proceed.  So there  did appear  to be a conflict  in the 
evidence.
However,  S75 applies  where  there  has been  a "debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement"  and 
looking  at the payment  of this fee I didnt  think  the broker  fell into this category  when  looking  
at whether  they were  the "supplier".  Thats  because  although  I accepted  that the broker  
would  have  given  advice  to Mr S as to which  mortgage  may be suitable,  spoken  about  the 
cost of the products  and assisted  with completing  the mortgage  application  form,  the fee that 
was paid went  directly  to the mortgage  provider.  This fee was the cost of arranging  the 
mortgage  offer by the mortgage  provider  and wasnt  for the brokers  service.  It also wasnt  
paid via the broker.
There  can only be one supplier  of goods  for a section  75 claim  and so I wasnt  able to take 
into account  the actions  of both the broker  and the mortgage  provider  when  deciding  
whether  Halifax  had handled  Mr Ss claim  fairly.  As Mr Ss complaint  was about  the product  
fee for the mortgage,  I thought  that the supplier  in this situation  was the mortgage  provider.  
So, this meant  that I couldnt  look at the service  the broker  supplied  because  they hadnt  
"supplied"  the mortgage  offer,  the mortgage  provider  had. I could,  therefore,  only look at 
whether  the mortgage  provider  had either  breached  the contract  or made  a 
misrepresentation  to Mr S about  the fee.
Looking  at the documentation  I had been  provided  with I have  seen  that the mortgage  
application  completed  by Mr S stated  that the fee was to be paid in advance  and not added  
to the loan.  Id also seen  that Mr Ss credit  card account  was debited  the £999  fee just less 
than a week  after he had completed  this application.  So, I thought  it was reasonable  to say 
that it was Mr S who provided  his credit  card details  to the mortgage  provider  in order  for 
Ref: DRN09075793this fee to be paid.  The mortgage  offer had then been  received  by Mr S three  weeks  after 
the credit  card payment  had been  made.  So, I also thought  it was fair to consider  that Mr S 
should  have  been  aware  that the fee had been  paid before  he had received  the formal  
offer.
The documentation  provided  by the mortgage  provider  stated  that fees that have  been  paid 
were  not refundable.  This was part of the mortgages  terms  and conditions  which  Mr S had 
agreed  to when  applying  for the mortgage.  So, I thought  that Halifaxs  view,  that there  was 
no breach  of contract  or misrepresentation  by the supplier,  was fair.
I appreciated  this decision  would  be of disappointment  to Mr S but the application  of 
section  75 is limited.  And for the reasons  given  above  I was not intending  to uphold  Mr Ss 
complaint  as I thought  Halifax  had acted  reasonably  and fairly  in dealing  with his section  
75 claim.
Neither  party  has asked  me to re-consider  any part of my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I havent  been asked by either Mr S or Halifax to look again  at my decision I have 
carefully reviewed to see if I would change  my view, However, Im satisfied I have been fair 
and objective  in dealing with Mr Ss complaint and I havent reached  any different 
conclusions. I think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with Mr Ss section  75 
claim. 
So, for the reasons given above  Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0907579