K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about  Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of their claim made on a 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes their claims handlers and agents.  
Most of the correspondence in relation to this complaint has been  completed by Mr J, so for 
ease of reading, Ill mostly only refer to him. 
background 
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide a 
brief summary here.
Mr J has a number of ongoing claims under his legal expenses insurance.  He complained 
that Aviva  wouldnt appoint a panel solicitor to one of his claims due to a conflict of interest. 
Aviva had asked that he provide details of his own choice of solicitor. 
Mr J says Aviva werent fulfilling the policy terms. He asked  to put his other claims on hold 
and focus on his claim against a firm of solicitors L, for professional negligence. Mr J 
wanted access to panel solicitors and as he is dyslexic and has some  other  health  problems 
he asked for reasonable adjustments to be made to accommodate  his needs.
Aviva instructed a claims management company who offered Mr J one of their panel  
solicitors. This was to assess whether or not his claim had reasonable prospects of success. 
Mr J wanted to send  31 boxes of files to the solicitor  for assessment. Aviva questioned 
whether or not that this was necessary. 
Initially they asked  that Mr J send them the information, so they could look at it, in part to 
ensure there were no duplicate documents. Mr J says the information is legally privileged  
and that Aviva arent entitled to see it. He also wanted confirmation that he could discuss  his 
case with a solicitor prior to an assessment of the prospects. There  has been lengthy 
correspondence between  Mr J, Aviva  and our service which has ultimately resulted in Aviva  
saying that:
Mr J could provide 500 pages of documents directly to the solicitors. If the solicitor 
feels that more information is required to assess the prospects,  they will ask for this. 
Alternatively he can provide all the information  to Avivas claims handler (on the basis 
that he accepts  the information isnt legally privileged),  who will prepare a bundle  for 
the solicitors to review.
If the solicitor thinks it is necessary to discuss the case with Mr J before making an 
assessment, Aviva  will authorise  this. 
Aviva  will ask their panel solicitor to treat Mr J sympathetically in relation to 
reasonable adjustments in their dealings with him. 
Aviva have also provided complaint responses  in relation to Mr Js other  ongoing claims. Our 
investigator acknowledged that there had been movement and compromise on both sides,  
and concluded  that Avivas offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr J has said he doesnt want an ombudsmans decision. And also that he doesnt accept 
our investigators findings nor wish to withdraw  his complaint. Hed like the matter  to remain 
on hold. He wants our service to remain involved to keep things on track. 
Ref: DRN08385042Our investigator explained that our service  is unable to be involved in the ongoing handling 
of a claim.  Were an informal dispute  resolution  service. And that it isnt fair to keep the 
complaint on hold or open indefinitely. The matter has therefore been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive noted Mr Js comments about not wanting a final decision. But as has been explained, 
we arent  claims handlers, and I dont think it is fair to Aviva for this matter to be further 
delayed. 
Part of my consideration is thinking about when I have enough information to make  a 
decision. Im satisfied that both Aviva and Mr J have had ample opportunity  to present 
evidence and arguments in support of their position. And based on this, I think issuing my 
final decision  is the right thing to do to bring  this complaint to a conclusion. 
Im also aware that Aviva have provided further complaint responses to Mr J about  other 
issues. But they are beyond the scope  of this decision and it would be inappropriate for me 
to comment on those  issues here.
Mr J has made considerable submissions  in bringing  his complaint. And whilst  I dont  intend  
to respond in similar detail, I have read all his correspondence and taken it into account   
when making my decision.  So if I dont mention any particular  point  or piece of evidence it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need  to reference 
it to explain my decision. I hope  Mr J doesnt  take this as a discourtesy;  it is just a reflection 
of the informal  nature  of our service.  
Mr Js original complaint was about having  access to a panel solicitor. As this has now been 
agreed, I think that is fair resolution to this part of the complaint.  I dont  think Aviva were  
wrong to ask Mr J for his own choice of solicitor  when  some of their panel firms were 
conflicted. But once  access to a panel solicitor was agreed,  the complaint evolved to be 
about the provision  of information required to assess prospects of success. 
Its clear that having the opportunity to present the 31 boxes of files in relation to his claim is 
important to Mr J. But I can also understand Avivas  concerns about the costs involved in 
assessing such a large  volume of information. This may also work against  Mr J himself  as in 
the event of his claim being accepted, a significant amount of his limit of indemnity could 
have been exhausted in assessing the prospects of success. 
So looking  at everything as a whole, I think the proposals put forward  by Aviva (and outlined 
above) are fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  And crucially  they have included  
provision that if the solicitor needs further  information, that it can be obtained.  I think the 
panel solicitor, as a legal professional, will be best placed to know what  evidence is required 
to assess the prospects  of success of Mr Js claim. So if they need more  information, 
evidence or to speak  to Mr J, Im sure they will ask. And Aviva have agreed that in those 
circumstances they will authorise  the costs of this. I think that is a fair way to move the claim 
forward. 
I appreciate Mr J finds verbal communication easier  that writing.  But I think  Avivas offer to 
request that the solicitor makes  reasonable adjustments for him is sufficient. I dont agree 
that this extends  to the right to speak to a solicitor  ahead  of an assessment being  made,  
unless the solicitor deems this to be necessary. 
Ref: DRN08385043My task is to decide whether Aviva  have dealt with the claim fairly, reasonably and in line 
with the policy terms. And Im satisfied they have.  So Im not asking Aviva to take any further  
action. If Mr J wishes to progress  his legal case within his insurance policy, I would 
encourage him to select one of the options  outlined  above and communicate this to Aviva.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0838504