K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that an Appointed Representative (AR)  of Intrinsic Financial Planning 
Ltd (Intrinsic) gave him unsuitable advice in 2015 to switch  his bond and equity index fund 
(the B&E fund) to a cash fund. He also says the AR delayed his reinvestment of the fund 
until the middle of 2017. Mr B is represented by his wife  Mrs B  and a similar complaint 
about Intrinsic and about her investment(s) is being addressed separately.
background
A summary  of the key events is as follows:
From  2013 Mr B held the B&E fund in a drawdown Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP).
On 6 May 2015 and in the course of a telephone  conversation  between  the AR and 
Mrs B, Mr B was advised to surrender and encash the B&E fund as a temporary  and 
cautious measure  prior to the impending general  election  at the time and to ensure 
that growth within the fund was retained and not exposed (and lost) to volatility  after 
the election. The ARs recommendation  of switching to a cash fund (within the same  
platform) was followed. On 20 May Mrs B, on her and Mr Bs behalf,  asked the AR to 
give advice on switching back into the stock market. In response the AR noted that 
the market had remained flat but advised against  a return to the stock  market       
 with things being so volatile  at the moment  as he wrote  at the time. Mr B says 
that in June 2015 the AR advised  retention of the cash  fund because  of uncertainty  
about what was described as the Greece situation.
In October 2015 the AR and Mrs B met. Her record of the meeting says he advised 
her (and Mr B) to retain  the cash fund  given the turbulence  in the stock market  at 
the moment   as she quoted  and verified  in her email  to him on 11 October.
The AR and Mrs B met again in March 2017 and she says a previous meeting 
around August  2016 had also taken place.  She says they were advised to retain the 
cash fund in 2016 and her record  of the 2017 meeting says she expressed concern 
that the cash fund had remained in place without reinvestment up to that point. Her 
email to the AR, on 18 May 2017, refers to this. It also says that she and Mr B had 
agreed with the AR that previous  periods were not the best time to reinvest  and that 
they agreed with him that they were risk averse in the period surrounding the Brexit 
vote  in 2016  but they considered that the delay in reinvesting the cash fund was 
too long. This email  also chased the AR for reinvestment recommendations that Mrs 
B said he promised around  the meeting in March. The AR responded and 
recommended a multi asset fund (the multi  asset fund) for reinvestment.
Mr Bs complaint was submitted to the AR and to Intrinsic in 2018. Intrinsic did not 
uphold the complaint  and, in the main, it said that advice to switch to the cash fund in 
2015 resulted  from Mr Bs  fears at the time over the General Election, Greece 
and Brexit; that he was  Risk Averse for certain decisions; that his concern about 
Greece led to the advice in June 2015  to retain  the cash  fund; that during a review 
meeting in October 2015 he was advised  to retain  the cash fund because he 
confirmed that was what he wanted   given the turbulence  in the Stock Market and 
the fact that [he] would also be retiring and [he] therefore did not want  to risk 
anything; that the AR kept in regular contact with Mrs B, who acted on Mr Bs behalf, 
Ref: DRN00906012up to the time when  reinvestment in the multi  asset fund took place; and that at all 
relevant times Mr B agreed  with the advice to switch to and to retain  the cash fund.  
Mrs B, on Mr Bs behalf,  disputed  Intrinsics  account  and assertions with reasons, in 
the course of referring the matter to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and concluded  that it should be upheld. In 
the main:
He noted that the B&E fund was recommended to Mr B when he had a balanced 
investor risk profile in late 2012.  He considered that a lower  attitude to risk (ATR) 
possibly applied to Mr Bs position between  2015  and 2017.  However,  he said there 
is insufficient documentary evidence to conclude that Mr Bs ATR was reviewed and 
revised to be risk averse. He was not persuaded by emails in which  Mrs B used the 
expression risk averse to describe  herself  and Mr B because, in the course of his 
investigation, he obtained credible clarification from Mrs B that she meant she and Mr 
B were not high risk takers.
He referred to evidence supporting the view that Mrs B, on Mr Bs behalf, expected 
the switch to the cash fund to be a temporary  measure and that the AR expressed 
the same. He considered  that when this temporary measure turned into a medium 
term or open ended  one  as the ARs  advice continued to be for the retention of the 
cash fund  a formal and documented investment suitability reassessment  should 
have been conducted  for Mr B, but that was not done.
He concluded  that Mr B was cautious  in 2015  not risk averse  so the ARs advice 
to switch to a cash fund was unsuitable; that Mr B accepted the advice on the basis 
of the switch being a temporary measure,  so the AR (and Intrinsic) must take 
responsibility for the retention  of the cash fund for nearly two years  until it was 
surrendered and reinvested  in the multi fund in 2017; and that redress should be 
calculated for Mr B, on the basis of a cautious ATR, for the period in which  the cash 
fund was in place.
Mr B accepted this outcome but Intrinsic did not. It asked for an ombudsmans  decision and 
it does not appear  to have given reasons for any disagreement it has with the adjudicators 
view. The matter was then referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider that the adjudicators investigation into and treatment of the complaint was 
commendably done in a detailed fashion  one that appears to have taken  into account the 
key and relevant  points  (and arguments) presented by both parties. In straightforward terms, 
I agree  with his conclusion for broadly the same reasons he presented in his findings.
There are two key issues in dispute  within  this complaint  
Whether (or not) the switch, in 2015, to the cash fund was suitable for Mr B.
Whether (or not) retention of the cash fund between 2015 and 2017 was suitable  for Mr B.
I address both issues below.
Ref: DRN00906013Whether (or not) the switch, in 2015, to the cash fund was suitable for Mr B.
The ARs investment  advice service to Mr B is what features in this case  not an execution 
only service in which the ARs role was limited to following and executing investment  
instructions from Mr B. I state this in order to address  at the outset  Intrinsics references  
to Mrs B and/or Mr B allegedly agreeing with the ARs recommendations. 
I am not persuaded that the notion  of any such agreement is relevant to the complaint or to 
either of the issues above. As the adjudicator said, the AR was the financial expert  in his 
relationship with Mrs and Mr B  they were the lay investors who were entitled  to rely upon  
his advice. The regulators rules  placed  upon  the AR the obligation to ensure that his advice 
was suitable for Mr B. This is the primary or sole issue  that features  in the complaint and the 
matter of any subsequent agreement with his advice  which  might  or might not have been 
the case  does not determine whether (or not) the advice was suitable.
There does not appear  to be enough evidence to support the idea that Mrs or Mr B held a 
concern about  the 2015 election that directly  prompted the ARs call and advice to Mrs B on 
6 May 2015.  Evidence suggests  that he called upon  his own volition,  that he spoke to Mrs B 
at a time and place  that was inconvenient for her  her workplace  and that the summary, in 
her email  to him after the call on the same  date, of the circumstances around the call is 
credible. The AR responded by email and he did not dispute what Mrs B had said  including  
her first sentence in which she referred to his telephone call as an early warning. Such a 
reference supports  the conclusion, on balance, that it was the AR who took it upon himself to 
call Mrs B to issue his early warning about  volatility after the election  and to recommend the 
switch to a cash fund.
This sets the context  to apply relevant findings, similar to those that the adjudicator 
highlighted. I do not suggest  that the AR was wrong  to hold and/or share  with Mrs B any 
sincere concern(s) he might have  had about  the welfare of Mr Bs investment. As I said 
above, the matter  of suitability is the issue here, so that is what  I shall consider. A switch to a 
cash fund reflects a risk averse strategy. There  appears  to be no evidence of a change in Mr 
Bs circumstances  or investor profile  that prompted  such a strategy.  He did not initiate 
consideration of such a strategy. 
The AR was not a discretionary  investment manager. It would  have been   or ought 
reasonably to have  been   apparent to him that his advice  to Mr B in terms of any concern 
about the welfare of his investment had to be reasoned, properly documented and given with 
allowance of time for him to make an informed decision. I am not persuaded that an arguably 
unexpected telephone call to Mrs B, seemingly at an inconvenient  time whilst she was at 
work, on the day before the 2015 general  election  (which was the event that the AR was 
concerned about) fulfilled this level of responsibility. His email after the call does not suggest  
an intent to document his advice, it appears  to have been prompted by Mrs Bs email and 
request for clarification not, it seems, by his plan to document his advice.
The general election was a foreseeable event   not one that the AR would have been 
unaware of before 6 May 2015. The switch reversed the investment in the B&E fund which  
was around two years old at the time. It also reversed the suitability assessment based on 
Mr Bs balanced ATR in late 2012 and featured a new, albeit interim, objective. I am satisfied 
that an investment  decision  that entailed such significant changes  should have been 
properly assessed,  reasoned and documented. Even if the advice on 6 May is to be viewed 
as a temporary emergency  measure that was meant  to guard against the effect of the 
Ref: DRN00906014general election, it need not have been  given so late and such a measure does not justify 
the lack of a proper, interim, suitability reassessment. 
There is no evidence that the ARs call on 6 May was prompted by concerns from Mr B or by 
a change in his ATR from balanced  to risk averse, his evidence is that no such concerns 
prompted the ARs call and that there was no such change to his ATR. Nevertheless, and in 
the absence of a proper  and documented suitability reassessment, the AR advised him to 
switch to the cash fund.  Overall and on balance, I conclude that this advice was unsuitable 
for Mr B.
Whether (or not) retention of the cash fund between 2015 and 2017 was suitable  for Mr B.
The cash  fund was unsuitable for Mr B at the outset. I consider that in the absence of an 
event which  brought  it to an end or which created circumstances  (and/or instructions) that 
turned it into a suitable investment, the cash fund continued to be unsuitable for him. The 
cash fund was brought to an end when it was surrendered in 2017, so this sets 2017 as a 
natural end point  for my consideration  the complaint does not appear to extend to Mr Bs 
reinvestment in the multi  fund in 2017.
Between 2015 and 2017, I have  not seen evidence of a change  in circumstances that turned 
the cash fund into a suitable  investment. As the adjudicator said, it is plausible that Mr B was 
more cautious   especially because of the concerns that the AR was relaying to him  but 
evidence does not extend to show he was risk averse. On a similar basis, he agreed with a 
temporary holding  in cash for the period around the general election in 2015 but evidence 
does not show  that, beyond  such agreement, his investment objective changed to the point 
of justifying the retention of  a market risk averse cash holding.
The merits of whether a meaningful suitability reassessment could have taken place after the 
switch to the cash fund might be debated,  but at least such a reassessment, despite being  
after the event , could have helped the AR to correct the error committed by recommending 
the cash fund.  No such meaningful reassessment after the event appears to have taken  
place. Intrinsics defence  in this respect  seems  to be broadly  based on its assertion that the 
AR maintained contact  with Mrs and Mr B and that they agreed to retain the cash  fund 
during this period. As I said above,  agreement with the ARs advice does not determine 
whether (or not) the advice  was suitable.
Intrinsic has also argued that Mr B, through Mrs B, essentially instructed the retention  of the 
cash fund during the latter half of 2015, around the Brexit event in 2016  and up to the review  
meeting with Mrs B in March 2017.  I am not persuaded that there is enough  evidence  of 
such instructions. Mrs Bs email  comments  and the position she held at the time  for her 
and for Mr B  appear to have been heavily influenced, if not defined, by the advice were 
receiving from the AR. Even if there were such instructions, the point arguably remains  
including the fact that Mr B received an advisory  service, not an execution only service  that 
the AR was still obliged  to give suitable investment advice on such  instructions. I have not 
seen evidence of a definitive  instruction from Mr B to retain  the cash fund which preceded 
the ARs  advice or evidence of the AR assessing (or reassessing) suitability in this context. 
Available evidence,  in terms of the retention of the cash fund, suggests a recurring  sequence 
in which  Mrs B sought the ARs  advice and then followed  and relied upon the advice.
The evidence shows this sequence after the 2015 general election  in May that year and 
again in June and again in October. I have not seen enough correspondence  from 2016. 
However, evidence  from early 2017  suggests that Mrs and Mr Bs reliance on the ARs 
Ref: DRN00906015advice to retain the cash fund continued up to then and up to the point when they considered  
the need to question the length of time over which it had been retained.  This took place in 
March 2017 and Mrs B had to remind the AR and assert  their dissatisfaction with the matter  
two months later in May before the AR responded. His response features only the 
recommendation of reinvestment and does not appear to address their dissatisfaction. It is 
not quite clear why the AR does  not appear to have properly explained or reasoned the 
reinvestment delay  in the course of his response to Mrs B. 
I have considered whether (or not) Mr B should have questioned and/or sought  to review the 
advice to retain the cash fund earlier than March 2017. On balance,  I am not persuaded that 
he should. He was entitled to rely on the ARs  advice. Eventually he reached  the point of 
questioning the advice  but that does  not automatically mean he should  have questioned  it 
earlier. I consider it fair to give allowance for a reasonable  period in which Mr B retained  
confidence in advice from the AR and then a point at which he questioned  that 
confidence/advice. On balance, this is what appears  to have happened between  Mr B and 
the AR from mid-2015 to early 2017. 
Intrinsic can argue that his complaint is convenient, in the context of hindsight  and with the 
knowledge that the cash fund performed less favourably than the B&E fund over the relevant  
period. The question that arises is  would Mr B have complained if the switch  to the cash 
fund had benefited him financially? As I said at the outset, the main issue  is about  whether 
(or not) the AR discharged his obligation  to give suitable advice. Consideration of this issue  
does not quite extend to the question above.  Overall and on balance,  I consider that the 
ARs advice  to retain Mr Bs cash fund between 2015 and 2017 was unsuitable.
fair compensation
In assessing  what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as close  as possible  
to the position  he would  probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I 
consider that Mr B would have invested  differently. It is not possible to say precisely what 
he would  have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given his circumstances when the switch  to the cash fund took place.
what must  Intrinsic do?
To compensate Mr B fairly Intrinsic must:
Compare the performance of Mr Bs cash fund with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there  is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest  set out below.
If there  is a loss and because the switch  took place in relation to his SIPP, 
Intrinsic should pay the compensation into Mr Bs pension  plan,  to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  Intrinsics payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Intrinsic should 
not pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would  conflict  with any 
existing protection  or allowance.
Ref: DRN00906016If Intrinsic is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr Bs pension plan, it should 
pay that amount directly  to him. Had it been  possible to pay into his plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced 
to notionally  allow for any income  tax that would otherwise have  been  paid. The 
notional allowance  should  be calculated using Mr Bs actual or expected  marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr B is likely to be a 
basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement age, the reduction would equal the 
current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would have been able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Intrinsic is required by HMRC 
to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr B how much has been  
deducted and give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Intrinsic 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months 
maturity as published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Intrinsic should  apply  those  rates to the 
investment on an annually compounded basis.
why is this remedy suitable?
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. The FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March  2017,  the FTSE WMA  Stock 
Market Income total return  index) is made up of a range of indices with different asset 
classes, mainly  UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone 
who sought to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr B was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to take a 
small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. It also appears that the B&E 
fund which was surrendered for/switched to the unsuitable cash fund was composed 
of a broadly comparable  split in asset  classes. The benchmark combination does not 
mean that Mr B would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% 
in some kind of index  tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return he could have obtained from a 
suitable investment.
Ref: DRN00906017The additional interest is for Mr B being  deprived  of the use of any compensation 
money since the end date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I order Intrinsic Financial Planning 
Ltd to calculate and pay him redress as detailed above, and to provide its calculation to him 
in a clear and simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0090601