K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited applied an unfair charge 
when he returned  the vehicle upon  the voluntary termination of a finance  agreement.  He 
wants the charge  cancelled.
background
Mr T tells us in March 2015 he acquired a new vehicle from a dealer A through a hire 
purchase agreement.  At around  the same time he took out insurance  for damage to the tyres 
and alloy wheels. Mr T says he decided to exercise the Voluntary Termination (VT) option in 
2018. But following  an inspection  VWFS  applied a charge  of £224.75 in respect of damage 
to a tyre. He thinks the damage is just fair wear  and tear. And he tells us when the vehicle 
went in for servicing  in January  2018  - at another branch of the dealer from which hed 
obtained the vehicle - he was advised  he didnt need to change  the tyre. He says at that time 
his insurance for tyre damage was still current.  And if hed been told to change it, any cost 
would have been covered. Mr T says he wasnt made aware  of the guidelines by which  the 
damage would be judged - and thinks hes only required  to return  the vehicle in reasonable 
condition. He also says the vehicle was returned having done less mileage than was 
permitted under the agreement but no allowance was made.
VWFS said it applied  the charge in accordance with guidelines set out by the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA). And the charge  was applied in line with the terms 
and conditions of the finance  agreement.
The adjudicator did not recommend the complaint  should be upheld.  She said she couldnt  
say the damage  was within  the relevant wear and tear guidelines. And the charge had been 
made within the terms and conditions of the finance  agreement.
Mr T did not agree and wanted an ombudsman to make  the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr T is very upset about the circumstances  - and I can understand the reason for 
this. He purchased  insurance to cover him for the eventuality of tyre damage  - and he feels 
hes been misled  by a dealer which is part of the same group  of businesses as VWFS.
In his response to the adjudicators view Mr T made  reference to legislation - the Consumer  
Credit Act, 1974. And he set out his view on how this should be applied to the terms and 
conditions of his finance agreement. And also how a court would apply the law.
I should explain that this service  is an informal  resolution service and not a court. We are 
required to make decisions on the basis of rules laid down in statute and by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA).  In particular under the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP).
Ref: DRN09870892DISP 3.6.1: The ombudsman will determine  a complaint by reference to what is, in his 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
DISP 3.6.4 In considering  what  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, 
the ombudsman  will take into account:
(1)relevant:
(a)law and regulations
(b)regulators rules, guidance  and standards
(c)codes of practice and
(2)(where appropriate)  what  he considers  to have been good industry practice  at the 
relevant time.
So I dont  apply the law directly but I do take it into account.
Its not in dispute  Mr T took his vehicle to be serviced in January 2018. And whilst theres no 
independent evidence - for the purposes of this complaint - Im willing to assume that the 
issue of the damage  to the tyre was discussed. The fact that Mr T didnt have the tyre 
changed at that time would be consistent  with the advice he said he received. And as his 
insurance was valid until March 2018  - it would seem highly likely hed have changed it if he 
thought it was necessary.
I can see in a letter of 19 February 2018 VWFS wrote to Mr T and set out the process  for 
voluntary termination.  This included details of how the vehicle would be inspected.  And it 
made specific reference to BVRLA  guidelines being  used  and details of a website where 
these could be found. The letter included this advice:
We encourage you to view this ahead of submitting your request to terminate your 
agreement.
The BVRLA guidelines set out to achieve a measure of consistency  and its a widely  used 
industry guide in assessing whether damage is fair wear and tear. And the adjudicator 
correctly pointed out the terms  of the finance  agreement meant Mr T would be responsible  
for any damage in excess of fair wear  and tear.
The relevant  guideline in this case relates  to damage to a tyre and makes it clear that 
damage to the sidewall of a tyre is not acceptable.  This was the damage for which Mr T was 
charged. And photographs of the vehicle show this damage - there is a visible cut to the tyre.
Mr Ts insurance  covered  him until March 2018 - so there was still time to make a claim. And 
I think it was open  to him to check the guidelines  and take steps  to change the tyre. 
In those circumstances - and irrespective  of what hed been told in January - he was aware 
of the basis of the inspection. And Mr Ts formal letter to terminate  the agreement  was dated 
12 April. So by then he knew  the inspection would be based  on BVRLA guidelines and 
nonetheless chose to proceed  with the VT.
Ref: DRN09870893I did ask VWFS if it would  consider remitting the charge as a gesture of goodwill - but it 
declined to do so. 
Id also confirm the finance  agreement  makes no provision for any refund or allowance in 
respect of unused mileage below that contracted.
Im aware Mr T has indicated he will not be paying  the charge  and would defend any claim if 
VWFS were to take the matter to court. That is a matter  entirely for him to decide and hes 
under no obligation to accept my decision.  But a final decision does bring to an end the 
involvement of this service in trying to resolve this complaint. 
In summary  - under  the terms and conditions both of the finance  agreement and VT - I think 
that VWFS was entitled to apply the charge. And it would not be fair and reasonable for me 
to require it to be removed. Whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr T for the 
reasons given above Im not upholding  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0987089