K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Evolve Wealth Limited didnt make him aware  that it would take advisor  
fees after he cancelled  his client agreement,  nor did it provide a breakdown of the fees or 
any invoices. He also raised other concerns.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 6 January  2020. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.  In it, I 
explained that while I didnt accept a number of Mr Rs points I felt he had suffered as a 
result of an ongoing dispute  between  Evolve  and its former advisor (who he was transferring 
his portfolio to). As such, I felt Evolve  should pay him £150.
Evolve disagreed  with my decision, and said:
In its response to Mr Rs complaint it apologised for any concerns and stress arising 
from recent events, and offered to write off his outstanding balance as a goodwill 
gesture
It is still prepared to write off any outstanding fees to settle this complaint amicably - 
minus the £150 if it is required  to pay this 
Mr R had continuing access to his investments via the provider and its online 
systems; it only cut off access to its own systems after he had instructed a new 
business to oversee  his investments
Its records show that Mr R did have access to his portfolio, contrary to his evidence,  
on the key dates in question
No action was taken by the Information Commissioners Office  (ICO),  which wrote: I 
am aware that Evolve  has outlined the steps  that they have taken to provide the 
necessary data to these individuals and I believe that Evolve has made  genuine 
attempts to comply with the legislation. Now that G has assessed the case  and 
provided any necessary guidance  we will not look to consider this concern further.
It had regulatory  concerns  about  the advisor in question and this fully justified its 
cautious approach  concerning various issues affecting Mr R and the transfer of his 
portfolio to this advisors new business
It accepts  my analysis that Mr R was caught  in the crossfire
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I do not believe the evidence  supports several of Mr Rs 
key allegations.  I also think Evolve was entitled  to act with caution given the regulatory 
requirements surrounding transfers of clients portfolio where  it has genuine and serious  
concerns, whether these are well-founded or not. I offer no view on this obviously 
contentious issue.
I acknowledge that it apologised  for any inconvenience caused due to Mr R being caught in 
the crossfire of the dispute with its former advisor.  I do think the evidence  indicates, very 
much on the balance of probabilities, that this did lead to a delay in him receiving information 
and the appropriate level of service  he was entitled to. I dont think its Final Response Letter 
Ref: DRN05017582fully acknowledged  this. This is why I have uphold this complaint, to the extent described,  
and instructed it to pay Mr R £150.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I think Evolve  was entitled to insist on Mr R paying the 
outstanding fees, which were clearly due under the terms and conditions; although I think it 
was appropriate  to offer some waiver given the circumstances. So it is not for me to say 
whether it should  deduct £150 from any such waiver. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Evolve Wealth Limited to pay Mr R £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN05017583provisional decision
complaint
Mr R complains that Evolve Wealth didnt make  him aware that it would take advisor  fees after he 
cancelled his client agreement, nor did it provide a breakdown of the fees or any invoices.
background
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint should be upheld.
She said that under the terms and conditions, Mr Rs minimum annual fee was £1,000 and Evolve  
calculated the amount due based on a daily fee of £2.74. It wasnt  unreasonable for it to do this or to 
calculate what  was owed following cancellation. The outstanding fees were therefore payable under 
the agreement.
She said it wouldve  been  beneficial if Evolve had communicated what  the outstanding fees were  but 
thought it was not required to do this and, anyway, Mr R hadnt lost out as a result  of this.
Mr R did not agree with her view, saying:
Evolve failed to provide  a breakdown of costs despite his numerous requests
He was told he would be sent an invoice  for outstanding costs but hasnt received one
Evolve continued to contact him after he had cancelled his contract and said he didnt want 
any further contact.  This invalidates  its claim that it didnt inform him of the outstanding fees 
because of his no-contact request
This was a breach of data protection legislation
Evolve made it very difficult for him to pass on key information  to this new advisor,  forcing him 
to make Subject Access  Requests which it ignored until the Information Commissioner 
intervened; this was in effect a vendetta
Its actions  breached  various COB rules including a clients  right to leave a service  without 
penalty and without giving an explanation; a business must  inform a client as to whether  any 
ongoing charges will be levied
Evolve responded, saying:
It has provided Mr R with a full breakdown of charges
It has held back the final invoice while this service is continuing to investigate  Mr Rs 
complaint
It only contacted Mr R once to confirm  the change  of notified advisor; it denies  making  other 
unsolicited calls
Mr R had immediate 24 hour access  to this account via an online portal; an electronic copy of 
his data was provided to his new advisor
It is entitled  to charge  Mr R for outstanding fees; this is not a breach of COB  rules
It maintains  it dealt with Mr R and his advisor  professionally and courteously
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN05017584In relation to the fee issue, I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. I am satisfied that 
Evolve was entitled to levy the fees in question and that these were in line with the terms and 
conditions. I also agree that it could have been clearer, and quicker, to spell out the position when Mr 
R decided to move to a new advisor  but Ive seen no evidence to indicate  this caused a financial loss.
I think  it is impossible to be certain about whether Evolve sought to delay or obstruct this transfer, as 
Mr R alleges. It, for example, had certain regulatory processes to follow in these circumstances and it 
was not unreasonable, in my view, for it to contact Mr R to confirm  his intentions.
But, on balance,  I think the evidence does suggest that Mr Rs transfer request was affected by the 
fact that his advisor had only just left Evolve, and probably not in harmonious circumstances. Various 
emails between  the three parties strongly suggest a lack of trust and/or mutual  co-operation.  
While Evolve says the SAR issue did not involve Mr R, I think  the evidence (including emails between  
Mr R and his advisor) suggest otherwise. In my view,  they suggest that the advisor did have difficulty  
getting key information about Mr Rs portfolio, and found it necessary  to make a number of SARs and 
then had to go to the Information  Commissioners Office (ICO) to get these fully complied  with.
The fact that the ICO upheld this complaint against Evolve persuades me that Evolve was not co-
operating as fully or quickly as Mr R was entitled to expect it to.
Overall, I am not persuaded that the evidence demonstrates  that Evolve was actively seeking to 
prevent Mr R leaving it or that it was motivated by a vendetta. But I do think the evidence suggests 
that Mr R was caught in the crossfire of what appears to have been a less than harmonious 
relationship between  Evolve and his advisor. I intend to instruct Evolve to pay Mr R £150 in lieu of 
this.  
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Evolve Wealth  Limited  to pay Mr R £150.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0501758