K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has unfairly  settled a claim he made 
under his car insurance policy.
background
In January 2018 Mr K was involved in an accident. He said a third party  overtook him on a 
roundabout and collided  with his car while  he was indicating and changing lanes. He said the 
damage was minimal  leaving the vehicles with slight scratches and dents.
The third party made a claim through their own insurer.  Mr K learnt that the third party  had 
said they had multiple  passengers who had suffered injuries as a result  of the collision. Mr K 
said he believed the third party was committing fraud as he hadnt seen as many people  in 
the car as the third party  described. He asked UKI to investigate the claim and check 
whether the third party had made  similar  claims in the past.
UKI investigated and said it didnt have  sufficient evidence to support Mr Ks concerns about 
the number of passengers in the third party vehicle. And it said as Mr K was attempting to 
change lanes at the time of the incident, the onus was on him to make sure the lane was 
clear and it was safe to proceed. So UKI said it couldnt defend  the claim in court so it chose 
to settle it on a without  prejudice basis  recording it as a fault claim.  UKI said this meant  Mr 
K could  choose  to pursue  his own action against the third party  if he disagreed.
 
Mr K complained to our service and said UKI had failed to investigate  the incident  properly.  
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and didnt uphold it. She said based on 
what shed seen, UKI had looked  at all of the relevant evidence  as part of its investigation 
including the medical evidence for the third party.
The investigator said that Mr K had the greater duty of care when changing  lanes, so UKIs 
decision to settle  the claim as it did was fair and reasonable and in line with the insurance 
policy. And she noted Mr K was still able to pursue his own legal action against the third 
party should  he disagree with UKIs decision.
Mr K disagreed, and said he still didnt  feel UKI had carried out a sufficient investigation. So 
the complaint  has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
When considering  this complaint, my role is to decide whether UKI has handled Mr Ks claim 
fairly and in line with its policy terms  not to decide  liability on the incident  itself.
Under ICOBS 8.1 UKI must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress; 
Ref: DRN02774192(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Mr Ks policy  says that UKI is entitled to:
take over and carry out the negotiation,  defence or settlement of any claim in your name, 
or in the name of any other person covered by this policy
This means  UKI has full control  of the claim   so it would be its decision to settle it as it sees 
fit. Mr K says UKI failed  to investigate the claim properly,  including  the motivations of the 
third party driver.
From what  Ive seen, UKI reviewed all of the available  evidence  including statements, photos 
of the damage, and drawings of the roundabout.  Taking this into account  it found the 
incident happened while Mr K was changing lanes and said this put a greater onus of 
responsibility on Mr K. Im satisfied it made  the decision  to settle fairly and in line with the 
policy terms. And as our investigator has said, Mr K is still able to pursue this personally  
without the support of UKI  should he wish to.
I understand Mr K feels very strongly about  the claim. However as Ive outlined, the decision 
on how to defend or settle a claim is not his to make.
So Im satisfied UKI has handled  the claim promptly and fairly and Im not asking it to do 
anything further.
my final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.  
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0277419