K821x#15complaint
Mrs F says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold  her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out with a store card in 1998.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Fs complaint because I dont think  that FICL gave her clear 
enough information about the policy.
I accept the PPI wasnt recommended. But FICL  still had to provide Mrs F with enough 
information for her to decide whether the policy  was right for her. The terms and conditions 
of the policy  said Mrs F wasnt able to claim for any condition shed already had. And Ive not 
seen anything to suggest Mrs Fs attention was drawn to this limitation.
What I need to think about  is whether  Mrs F wouldve bought the policy  if shed been given 
proper information.  Mrs F says that she had an existing condition,  which  she was on 
medication for, at the time she was sold the PPI. So I think that Mrs Fs medical condition  
wouldve played an important role in her decision on whether to purchase a policy including  
accident and sickness cover.  I dont think that she wouldve bought the policy if shed been 
told  as she shouldve  done  she wouldnt be able to claim if she couldnt work because of 
it. 
I dont think Mrs F wouldve bought the policy  if shed been provided with clear enough 
information. So, I think that Mrs F lost out because of what  FICL did wrong.
fair compensation
Mrs F should be put back in the position he wouldve been  in now if hed taken out the credit 
card without the PPI policy. 
if Mrs Fs store card account is still open:
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs F would owe on her card if the policy hadnt been 
added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Ref: DRN09946292FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs F owes  and what she would 
have owed.
If Mrs F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Mrs F would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs F 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest (at 8% 
a year) on the extra Mrs F paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point  
when Mrs F wouldve owed FICL something  on her card.
C.FICL  should tell Mrs F what  its done to work out A and B.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs F that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
if Mrs Fs store card account is now closed
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs F would have owed when she closed her account if 
the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs F owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B.FICL should add simple interest (at 8% a year)  on the difference  between what  Mrs F 
wouldve owed when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs F would have owed each  month without PPI   Mrs  F 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest (at 
8% a year)  on the extra Mrs F paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs F wouldve owed FICL something on her store card.
D.FICL should tell Mrs F what it has done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs F that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL  to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give  
Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax FICL  have taken off if she asks for one. 
Ref: DRN09946293my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mrs Fs complaint. Financial Insurance 
Company Limited  should put things  right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0994629