K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains about the information mistakenly  shared by The Prudential  Assurance 
Company Limited  (the business), with her ex-husband Mr M. 
She says because of this he is now harassing  her for the money.  
background
The business upheld  the complaint. It accepts it shouldnt have shared the information about  
when the policy was surrendered with Mr M. By way of compensation it offered Miss M £350 
for the trouble and upset  caused. 
Miss M disagreed with the outcome, and referred her complaint to our service. She doesnt 
feel the compensation is enough.  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said 
this error  would have  caused Miss M some distress and inconvenience, and in the 
circumstances £500 compensation would be fair and reasonable. However,  she was unable  
to say that matters  had become significantly worse  between  Miss M and Mr M. 
The business disagreed with the adjudicators view saying there was nothing  that warranted  
a higher payment. It confirmed that it hadnt  disclosed to Mr M the surrender value, and 
doesnt know how a letter from the business, correctly  addressed  to Miss M, ended  up with 
him. 
It maintained it hadnt provided him with any information  other  than the surrender date  
that he didnt already  know through the court proceedings.  It also said the policy was 
originally in place  for the benefit  of Miss M and Mr Ms children, but that was a matter 
between them.   
Miss M also disagreed with the adjudicators view and maintained  that she should  receive  
compensation in the region of £10,000,  which is what the policy was initially worth compared 
to £3,000 when she surrendered it.  
Shes concerned that the relationship between her and Mr M might  have adversely affected 
her chances  of succeeding with her complaint and would like for this information to be 
discounted from the ombudsmans decision making.  
Shes provided further information about the difficulties shes  experienced since  Mr M 
became aware  of what shed done, and how upset she is about the business mistake.  Shes 
also unhappy about the way shed been treated by the business in trying to resolve this 
matter.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN08541392Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Miss Ms strength of feeling about this matter. 
She has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  I dont need  any more information to decide this case.  However, I hope 
she wont take the fact my findings focus  on what I consider to be the central issues, and not 
in as much  detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Miss M and the business  and reach  what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice, however Im not bound by it. And as a fresh  pair of eyes looking 
at the complaint, its for me to decide, based  on the information Ive been  given,  whats  more 
likely than not to have happened. 
The question at the heart of this complaint is whether or not the compensation offered by the 
business is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. On the face of the evidence,  and on 
balance, Im not satisfied  that it is.   
I note the business maintains that other  than the date of surrender Mr M wasnt given any 
more information  than he was already aware of. But in this instance I dont think  its 
necessarily right for the business  to underplay  the information that it did disclose,  given that 
Miss M and Mr M were  in the middle of acrimonious divorce proceedings.   
I appreciate the business makes no comment about Miss Ms decision to surrender the 
investment and quite  rightly maintains  its a matter between her and Mr M, but regardless of 
the rights  and wrongs of what Miss M has done  which is not for me to decide   the 
circumstances under which the disclosure was made means Miss M is likely to suffer greater  
trouble and upset  than if disclosed at some other time. 
By telling Mr M about the surrender the business  also unwittingly disclosed Miss Ms position 
and possibly more.  This is more  likely  than not to influence how Mr M behaves  during the 
divorce proceedings. I also think its likely  that Mr M will want some  or all of that money 
which had been  set up for the benefit  of their children. Im conscious  Miss M says he wants a 
specific figure paid to him. 
Despite what the business says about its offer, if it had disclosed more  information than it 
had done in the circumstances, the compensation awarded would have been higher.
I appreciate Miss M feels she should  receive around  the £10,000 mark. But the 
compensation is not to pay her the original sum assured but the trouble and upset caused to 
her as a result of the business mistakenly  notifying  Mr M that she had surrendered the 
policy. 
I appreciate Miss Ms concerns with the situation  and recognise she will be disappointed Ive 
reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator. But having given the matter careful 
consideration, I dont  feel able to conclude that she should receive  any more compensation.  
Ref: DRN08541393my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited should  pay her £500 compensation for trouble 
and upset. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2018.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0854139