K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt  with their claim under their 
home insurance policy. 
Background
Mr and Mrs L had a home insurance  policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc. They made  a claim 
on their policy when  Mr Ls hearing  aids went missing. 
AXA appointed its loss adjuster who advised that the hearing  aids could either be replaced  
like for like or they would  offer Mr and Mrs L a cash settlement of £2,992.50. 
As Mr and Mrs L agreed to replacement  hearing aids but didnt want the same  model  due to 
problems they had experienced with it, AXA arranged for a representative of a specialist 
audiology company [B] to visit Mr and Mrs L at home to fit the new hearing aids. B offered  an 
aftercare service as part of the package and were called out to Mr and Mrs Ls home several 
times.
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs Ls relationship with B broke down after itd supplied the hearing 
aids. B said that the number of calls that were  being  made to it by Mr and Mrs L were  
excessive. B was unhappy at how Mrs L communicated with its staff on the telephone  and 
although there wasnt a cap on the number of aftercare visits, it said Mr and Mrs Ls requests 
for visits  were disproportionate and mainly related to a lack of cleaning of the hearing aids. 
B said it had already explained how to clean  and maintain the hearing aids,  and was no 
longer comfortable  visiting  Mr and Mrs L. B paid Mr and Mrs L £675 to enable them to pay 
for aftercare  from an alternative audiologist.  And it provided a list of local audiologists that Mr 
and Mrs L could contact  to carry on the aftercare  service.
Mrs L complained to AXA. She said they werent happy with the new hearing aids.  Mrs L 
said that the hearing aids werent working properly, and they were affecting Mr Ls quality of 
life. She said that they hadnt  been  given the opportunity to choose the hearing aids,  and B c 
hadnt tested Mr Ls hearing or the suitability  of the hearing aids.  She agreed that they didnt 
want the like for like replacement as the previous  behind the ears  aids didnt work after a 
few days, but they would have considered similar models.  
They thought the £675 they had received from B wasnt enough  because  they would  have to 
pay substantially more  for after care visits from other companies.
AXA investigated Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. In its final response it said that B had replaced  
the hearing aids with a model chosen by Mr and Mrs L and had offered aftercare. It said as 
the relationship  with B had broken down, B had decided to pay them a cash amount of £675 
to enable Mr and Mrs L to continue the aftercare  with another provider. The sum of £675  had 
been based on the average cost of aftercare in Mr and Mrs Ls area and covered the four-
year warranty plus another year.
AXA thought  this was a fair settlement and equivalent to the original hearing aids.  As a 
suitable replacement  hearing aids and compensation  payment for the aftercare package  had 
been provided, it didnt uphold their complaint.
Ref: DRN01782192Mr and Mrs L were  unhappy with AXAs response and brought  the complaint to us. They  told 
our investigator that the suitability of the hearing  aids should have been tested, along with 
Mr Ls hearing. And they complained that their original hearing aids cost £4,000 and they 
had only effectively received £675.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought that AXA had acted in line with its 
policy conditions and had settled the claim fairly.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree and so the matter has come to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it and I will explain  why.
Firstly, I want to assure Mr and Mrs L that Ive read all the letters and documents  on the file 
and I know that Mr and Mrs L have been through  a very difficult  time recently. I appreciate 
my decision  will come as a disappointment to them, but I need  to make a decision thats fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
In the terms and conditions of the policy, AXA make clear how it should settle claims. The 
relevant parts state:  
We can choose to repair, reinstate  or replace the lost or damaged property however, you 
can decide to have settlement in cash, or cash equivalent (including vouchers and/or 
store cards)  instead.  Where we can offer repair or replacement through  a preferred 
supplier, but we agree to pay a cash or cash equivalent  settlement instead the amount 
we pay will reflect 
Any discounts we may have received had we replaced your contents or
The amount  it would have cost us had we repaired  or reinstated  your buildings  and 
contents based on their current  energy ratings.
If no equivalent replacement is available then we pay the full replacement cost of the 
item in cash, or if you agree, cash equivalent  (including vouchers and/or store  cards)  
with no discounts  applied.
We may appoint an approved supplier to act on our behalf to validate your claim.  They  
are authorised to arrange a quotation,  a repair or replacement.
So, given the hearing aids have been replaced  by an equivalent model, Im satisfied that 
AXA followed its terms and conditions. But I also need to be satisfied that it treated Mr and 
Mrs L fairly whilst following them. 
When Mr and Mrs L chose to have  the hearing aids replaced, AXA agreed  to arrange this. 
And having decided to do this AXA was responsible for the company [B] it appointed to 
arrange this and for the service B provided. AXA was also responsible  for the quality of the 
replacement hearing  aids provided.
Under most  home insurance policies,  the insurer provides a like for like replacement if an 
item is lost or stolen. This means if the same model  costs more at the point of claim,  the 
Ref: DRN01782193insurer would still be obliged to provide  a like for like replacement. The insurer  may agree to 
provide a different item provided it doesnt cost more than a like for like new replacement.  If 
the consumer  wants a cash settlement or an upgrade  the insurer  will normally pay what  it 
would cost them to replace the item. And this is what the terms of Mr and Mrs Ls policy say 
will happen.   
In this case AXA say it agreed to replace  the hearing aids with an alternative model, which 
was chosen by Mr and Mrs L. But Mr and Mrs L dispute this, saying they were given no 
choice and Mr L wasnt assessed for their suitability. 
Where there is conflicting opinion or information available,  or indeed a lack of 
definitive evidence  because of the passage of time, I need to decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened on the balance of probability. 
While I am in no way questioning  Mr and Mrs Ls memory  of events, AXA have provided file 
notes which  show an initial visit by B where the replacement options  were discussed. The 
record shows there was then a return visit when B re-tested Mr L and fitted  the new hearing 
aids.  
So, on balance, I am satisfied that a suitable alternative was agreed  by Mr and Mrs L, and 
Mr L received suitable assessments  and fitting. And AXA was fair and reasonable in its 
provision of the replacements. 
Now I turn to the provision  of aftercare by B, on behalf of AXA.  After Mr L was fitted with the 
new hearing aid, Mrs L said they were faulty.  But again, looking at the evidence, Im not 
persuaded that they didnt  work properly because they were faulty. I say this because  I have 
to balance Mr and Mrs Ls opinion  against what has been recorded  by B. B said it was called 
to Mr and Mrs Ls home on multiple occasions, and the hearing aids hadnt  been cleaned 
properly. And Mr and Mrs L were shown how to do this repeatedly. Mr and Mrs L havent 
provided any evidence  to say that the hearing  aids were tested and have turned out to be 
faulty. So, on balance,  I think  AXA were fair in not replacing them again.
And there is evidence that the relationship between Mr and Mrs L and B broke down.  So, the 
decision was made to pay Mr and Mrs L £675 as a cash settlement. This enabled them to 
choose another company  to provide the aftercare, and Mr and Mrs L were  given  the details 
of several local providers. This amount  covered the remaining warranty  period plus one year.  
This I think was a reasonable compromise, given the relationship  between  them  had broken 
down, and it allowed  Mr and Mrs L to choose a local company, as opposed to having  one 
appointed by AXA. 
So, as a result of all the above, Im satisfied AXA was fair and reasonable in its replacement  
of the hearing  aids, and in the provision  of service to ensure they worked  properly and were 
suitable. And this means I am satisfied AXA settled Mr and Mrs Ls claim in line with the 
terms of their policy and that it fulfilled  its obligations.  
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 September 2020.
Ref: DRN01782194Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0178219