K822xcomplaint
Mr L has complained  about  Domestic  & General Services Limited (DGS). It provided a 
warranty for his washing  machine. Mr L says the machine  was never  repaired  properly  and 
so should be replaced, that the policy was mis-sold  to him and the service during  repairs  
was awful.
background 
Mr L contacted DGS in November 2015  as he had a problem with his washing machine. It 
offered to provide him with a warranty plan that covered repair  of the item, and if repair 
wasnt possible or was deemed too costly, a replacement. Mr L agreed to the cover and 
arrangements were made to repair the machine. This took three weeks.
Mr L felt that was far too long.  He said hed had to call a lot to get things done and calls were  
often disconnected part way through. DGS kept telling him to speak to the repair  company 
(who was also the manufacturer), and they kept referring him back  to DGS.  He spent over 
£30.00 on calls and £75 at the launderette.
DGS offered Mr L £74 compensation (£20 of which it paid to him), £29.74 as reimbursement 
of call costs hed incurred  and £75 to cover  the launderette costs hed claimed (although  not 
evidenced). 
Mr L remained unhappy and we considered his complaint. We said DGS should increase its 
offer by paying  an additional £100 compensation  (making the total £174, with £20 having  
already been paid). Having gathered further  detail  from Mr L about the continued repairs 
hed reported  as necessary to the machine,  we said, in the circumstances, we wouldnt make 
DGS replace it. 
Mr L remained unhappy. He said hed now made  another claim to DGS about the machine 
but it wasnt going well and he didnt want to have  to keep going through the rigmarole with 
it. He said he wanted us to say DGS should replace  the machine now. He said if we did hed 
accept the compensation award  (which  DGS  had told our investigator it would pay).  The 
complaint was passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont intend to make 
DGS do anything more than pay the additional  compensation.
I havent seen  any evidence that Mr L was mis-sold  this policy.  He thought  it would offer him 
a replacement if the item cant be repaired  and it does.  I know  Mr L was told differently at 
one stage which caused him to think his initial understanding was wrong but his view on the 
cover was correct.
I also know that Mr L thinks  DGS has reneged on that cover as it hasnt replaced  his 
machine. But Mr L has told us that whilst  he had to keep  getting repairs  done  on the 
machine, this was done as part of a private  arrangement which DGS wasnt aware of. So, as 
DGS wasnt aware of the continued  problems  and it didnt authorise the continued repairs, if 
the repairs werent fully successful I cant really blame DGS for that.
Ref: DRN01177462DGS told us of a further repair it was involved with in June 2017 and that Mr L has recently 
asked it to repair the machine again. But DGS has also told us that any complaints about its 
service after summer 2016  are to be considered by the consumer ombudsman  service. Im 
not sure that means complaints about DGS are now something we, in general, cant  look at. 
However, the activity  in question here  starting  with the repair in June 2017   has occurred 
long after Mr Ls original  complaint to DGS and his subsequent referral  to this service  (which 
was January 2017). Without  a financial businesss consent I cant  consider  complaints about 
activity that has occurred after we were first involved. And DGS hasnt given  that.
Its clear to me though that DGS  accepts it failed  Mr L during the initial repairs. And I can see 
that Mr L was extremely frustrated and was caused a lot of inconvenience. For its part in that 
Im satisfied that a total compensation award of £174 is fair and reasonable. DGS has paid 
£20 of that sum already  so now only £154 will have to be paid.
Mr L has said he wants us to make  DGS  pay interest  on any award.  I note DGS has 
previously offered interest on compensation amounts. This service  though  doesnt  do that. 
There are instances when we require an insurer to pay interest but we dont routinely apply it 
to compensation  awards.
DGS has reimbursed most of Mr Ls call costs and paid him the £75 he claimed  from it for 
laundry costs. Im aware that DGS  paid the sum for laundry costs without any evidence from 
Mr L as to his outlay. Im also aware that some of the call costs  Mr L asked to be refunded 
were for calls he made to the repairer/manufacturer. It did often refer him back to the 
repairer when really it shouldnt have done  but it seems  that some  calls to the repairer ran 
into difficulty due to its own systems. And DGS  accepted  the claim for laundry costs  on faith 
when it could have  asked for proof.  Looking at everything that happened I think  DGS has 
made fair redress to Mr L for the financial losses he incurred.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Domestic & General Services Limited to pay Mr L a further 
£154 compensation (my total award  being  £174 with £20 having already been  paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0117746