K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Allianz Insurance Plc hasnt handled a claim made  under his pet 
insurance properly,  resulting  in unnecessary repeated MRI and CT scans. He complains as 
Allianz wont reimburse the cost of these. 
background
Mr J has had his dog, which Ill call D, insured through Petplan  with Allianz since about 
April 2015. The policy is a classic4k policy which means Mr J has cover  up to £4,000 in any 
one insured year. And providing the policy continues to be renewed without any breaks  in 
cover, pets are also covered  continually for conditions which occur and may reoccur  after the 
initial inception of the policy. 
Since June  2015  D has suffered with seizures.  Mr J has made  claims under the policy for 
this which  have been paid. In May 2018 Ds condition had deteriorated and further  
investigations were  carried  out. As a result of the investigation D was diagnosed with 
atlantoaxial instability  and surgery was recommended, which did have a fairly  high mortality  
rate. Alternatively, the condition could have been conservatively managed which  also carried  
inherent risks. Because of that Mr J decided to take some time to decide the best course of 
action. 
Mr J submitted a claim for the diagnosis. The information provided by the small  animal 
hospital for this claim suggested Ds first seizure was in February 2015  at which  Allianz 
informed Mr J cover shouldnt  have  been  provided  for this condition  as it pre-existed the start 
of cover (and pre-existing conditions are excluded).  Mr J was informed of this at the end of 
June 2018. Mr J didnt  accept this was right and the small animal hospital wrote  a letter  on 
15 August 2018  explaining it had referred to the incorrect date in the claim and the first 
seizure was June 2015. This was after cover  for D was already in place. 
Allianz didnt reconfirm cover was back in place until October 2018 by which time D had 
suffered another seizure in September. And D had a massive seizure in January  2019  a 
result of which D underwent surgery. Just prior to surgery Mr J tried increasing cover under 
the plan to £7,000  so that full costs of the surgery would be covered.  Allianz  explained that 
could only happen  at renewal, not part way through an insured period. Allianz paid the claim 
subject to the policy limit. Mr J complained about not being able to increase cover  and also 
felt Allianz should  pay for a repeat MRI and CT scans as these wouldnt have been 
necessary if mistakes hadnt  been made about coverage.  
Allianz didnt uphold the complaint and so Mr J asked  us to look into it. Our investigator 
concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Although there  was a delay in Allianz acting on 
the information sent in August 2018,  she didnt think the outcome would be any different; she 
was persuaded  it would always have  been necessary to have repeat MRI and CT scans and 
that information from the small  animal  hospital  said conservative management was decided 
on when the initial diagnosis was made.   
Mr J didnt agree and doesnt feel his complaint has been  properly understood. He has 
provided a letter from the vet explaining that surgery was always the recommended course  
of action, not conservative management. He says he was asked for a letter explaining  the 
information about the recommended course  of action had been incorrect and this has been  
provided. He also says that hes been informed that unless  something dramatic had changed 
in Ds condition new scans wouldnt have been required even after a few months. Mr J puts 
Ref: DRN05019072the delays down to Allianz  not referencing its own records which  would have shown D didnt 
suffer her first seizure until June 2015. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Mr J accepts that he has been provided with the maximum amount of cover  for this condition  
for the insured year in which  he claimed.  So I dont need to consider that further. My only 
consideration is whether Allianz should indemnify Mr J for the costs of the repeated scans 
due to alleged  errors  in the way the claim was handled. 
When Mr J submitted his claim in May 2018,  following  Ds diagnosis,  the small animal  
hospital confirmed  the first episode had happened  in February  2015.  I understand from Mr J 
that was due to incorrect  information given by his wife at the time who couldnt recall  
accurately when the first episode occurred. Allianz  was entitled to rely on the information it 
was given in good faith, after all, this was provided  by the treating hospital. 
I do take Mr Js point  that Allianz could have cross referenced  with its own claims history,  
but I dont think  it would be reasonable to expect Allianz  to do that as a matter of course;  it 
wouldnt have any reason to question the information it was given at the time. And I 
understand Mr J didnt correct this until August  2018 and a few days later a letter  was 
received from the small animal hospital explaining  the error.  
But even if I accept Mr Js point, I dont  think this advances his case. Although the vets 
history does show the first time it treated D was June 2015, it doesnt necessarily follow that 
was the first episode. Whilst  I am no way suggesting that D had a seizure before June 2015, 
or that Mr J didnt take D for treatment  on the first episode, it is possible for pets to suffer 
with conditions or episodes and not receive  treatment.  So the error would, in all likelihood, 
have needed clarifying, which didnt happen  until August. 
I accept that Allianz  should have acted on that information much sooner than it did. But I 
dont think that means  it should now pay for the repeated scans.  I say this because  the 
information provided by the hospital suggest the scans  would always have been needed, not 
only to show the progression of the condition but also to plan the surgery.
The earliest Allianz could have let Mr J know cover  was being provided was the latter  half of 
August 2018.  Even if I accept Mr Js testimony that hes been  told a few months gap 
wouldnt have necessitated  repeat  scans,  by that time it was already a few months on. I also 
need to consider that D suffered with a further seizure in September, but Mr J decided 
against surgery. I understand  this was due to possibility  that D wouldnt survive.  But this was 
the same  situation  Mr J was faced  with in May, so I find it difficult to conclude Mr J would 
have actually done anything differently in May or June, had the incorrect information  not 
been given to Allianz about the first episode.  
Im also mindful Mr J was told cover would be provided for Ds condition in October. But he 
never arranged  for surgery then,  presumably and quite  understandably,  because of his 
continued concerns  that D might not survive. So it was, ultimately, Mr Js decision to leave 
surgery until D had a further episode in January 2019 when surgery  became more urgent. I 
dont know if scans would  have been required if Mr J had arranged surgery  in October, but I 
Ref: DRN05019073think its accepted  by the parties they were required in January,  indeed the small animal  
hospital has said as much.   
I do understand that Mr J has been  faced with some  difficult  decisions about the treatment of 
D and this must have  been distressing. Although  I accept that Allianz took far longer  than it 
should to confirm cover, I dont find it would be fair and reasonable to require to pay for the 
scans; it was ultimately Mr Js decision to leave surgery until January, despite knowing 
surgery would have  been covered a few months earlier.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0501907