K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  plc is holding him liable for transactions  totalling  around 
£750 that he says he didnt make  or authorise.  He says he didnt receive his card and PIN 
when he opened  a new account.
background
Mr H applied online for a current account  with Lloyds with a £750  overdraft facility. He says 
he already had a main  current  account and that he opened this account  because  he wanted  
to make use of the banks  safe deposit facility. He says he decided to accept  the overdraft 
facility, although  he didnt intend to use it. 
He says he didnt  receive  an online banking activation code so he visited his local branch. 
The member  of staff re-ordered this and, when Mr H told her he hadnt received the card and 
PIN, this was also re-ordered.
But, in the meantime, several  transactions had taken place on the account using Mr Hs card 
and PIN. Mr H says he noticed these  either  when he logged on to online banking  for the first 
time, or when he received  his first statement.
The bank couldnt conclude that the transactions had been carried out by someone who had 
fraudulently obtained the card and PIN. It closed Mr Hs account and passed the debt to its 
collections team and then to a debt collection agency. It recommended Mr H made a report 
to the police if he felt hed been a victim  of fraud.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  it likely  
that the card and PIN had been correctly delivered,  that the transactions took place in the 
same area and at the same time as transactions on Mr Hs main  current  account  and that 
the spending pattern wasnt that of a typical fraudster. So she thought it most likely that the 
transactions had been authorised by Mr H.
Mr H didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
 He contacted the bank to tell it he hadnt  received  the card and PIN; it shouldve told 
him at that stage that his account  had already been used.
 Other items of mail went missing  around  the same time and he reported this to 
Royal Mail.
 He isnt in debt with any financial institutions.  He has overdraft facilities, but doesnt  
need to use them.
 Hes a victim of fraud and his credit  rating  has been ruined.
 Lloyds  needs  to prove where it sent the card and PIN.
Ref: DRN08517462my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the genuine card and PIN were  used  for each of the transactions  Mr H is 
disputing. So whoever made  them must have been  able to get hold of both the card and PIN.
Mr H says he didnt receive the card and PIN and that Lloyds should prove where  they were  
sent. And he says he didnt use the card. So Ive considered the possibility that the card and 
PIN werent  delivered  to Mr H, and also the possibility that they were intercepted by a third 
party.
Lloyds records, which Ive seen,  show that the card and PIN were sent separately to Mr Hs 
correct home address.  The PIN was sent on the day the account  was opened, and the card 
a couple of days later. Both were  sent by second  class post, which  I find reasonable  there 
wasnt a requirement  to send the card and PIN by any form of guaranteed delivery.
Mr Hs mail is delivered directly through a letterbox on his front door. So Im satisfied  it is 
secure. But hes told us he made  a complaint  to Royal Mail about his post going missing  
he says hed not received expected medical appointment letters.  Although he gave  us the 
reference number  for his complaint, he told us he didnt  hear anything  else from Royal Mail. 
So its not clear  what  the outcome of any investigation was. Mr H says his mail was often 
delivered to neighbours by mistake. But hes told us that if any mail was wrongly delivered, it 
was usually re-posted by the neighbours.
So while I do find theres a possibility that items of post may have been wrongly delivered, I 
find it unlikely that both the card and the PIN would have been wrongly delivered and fall into 
the hands of the same  person - because  they were sent on different days. So, overall, I think 
its likely  and Im willing  to accept  that the card and PIN were correctly delivered.
And while I cant rule out the possibility that someone else that Mr H knows  intercepted  his 
post and used the card without his knowledge,  I think thats less likely, particularly taking into 
account what hes told us about the other  members  of his household.
Ive also taken into account the nature of the transactions and I dont find these look like the 
transactions of a typical fraudster. I say this because:
There was no balance enquiry before the first cash machine withdrawal  I would have 
expected a fraudster to have  checked how much was in the account so they could 
withdraw as much as possible in a short period of time.
The last transaction on day one was at 14.24. Then there  were  no transactions  until an 
attempted cash machine withdrawal at 12.45 on day two. As just noted,  I would expect  a 
fraudster to try to obtain  as much of the money  from the account as possible in as short 
a period as possible before the card is stopped. 
The transactions took place  in the same  area visited by Mr H  he told us he was in that 
area on that day and I can see from his main current account statement that he visited 
shops there.
No further transactions were attempted once the card had been stopped.
Ref: DRN08517463Mr H says Lloyds should have told him about the transactions when he said he hadnt 
received the card and PIN. But there wouldnt have been any reason for the bank to check 
for account activity at that point. It simply cancelled the existing card and issued a new one. 
So I dont  find it did anything wrong  here.  
It did apologise to Mr H for the poor customer service he received  he had difficulty getting 
through on the phone  and at one point he was given the wrong  information   and it paid him 
£117 compensation for that. I think this was fair and reasonable.
Because Ive found that its likely that Mr H did receive the card and PIN, it follows that I also 
think he probably carried out the disputed  transactions, or authorised someone else to do so. 
And this means  Im not going to ask Lloyds  to refund them,  as it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable to do so.
I appreciate my decision will be a disappointment to Mr H, but I hope Ive clearly explained 
why I think this is a fair outcome.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0851746