K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple.
background
Mrs M opened  a store  card account  in a shop in 2001. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy. The policy  would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Ms card 
each month  if shed been unable to work because of injury  or sickness, or if she lost her job. 
It also included purchase and price protection and life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  he said 
that Mrs M suffered from a serious  medical condition at the time of sale.  And he didnt think 
shed have taken  out the PPI if FICL had made  it clear  that she wouldnt be able to claim for 
the condition under the policy. FICL disagreed  with the adjudicators view, so the complaint  
was passed to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs M 
and to FICL  on 16 September 2019. I summarise my findings:
After the complaint was passed to me, I asked  Mrs M to provide further information about 
her medical condition, including when it was diagnosed and details of any time shed had 
to take off work as a result  of it. In response, Mrs Ms representative explained that there  
appeared to have  been some confusion, and that Mrs Ms medical  condition  had, in fact, 
been diagnosed in 2014.
So I couldnt fairly uphold the complaint, as the adjudicator did, on the grounds of 
Mrs Ms medical condition. That was because it had since transpired  that it wasnt  
diagnosed until many years after she took out the PPI. So it wouldnt  have  affected  her 
decision about whether to take the policy. 
But I thought  there  was another reason  why the complaint should be upheld.
When she brought her complaint to us, Mrs M told us that she said she was working  
around 16 hours per week when she took the policy  out. But she also ticked  a box to 
say she was working for fewer than 16 hours per week.  I asked Mrs M to provide more  
details about her working pattern  at the time when she took out the policy.  
In response,  Mrs M told us that she was contracted to work for three hours  per day, and 
she worked five days per week. She also explained that occasionally she might have 
done a couple of extra hours if needed.
Ref: DRN06712032In order  to be eligible for the sickness, injury and unemployment  cover  under the policy,  
Mrs M would have needed to be working  for at least 16 hours per week.  Based on what  
shes told us, I wasnt confident  that Mrs M met that condition. It was possible that she 
sometimes worked 16 hours or more in a week. But based on what she says, her regular 
hours were slightly less than 16 hours per week. So I wasnt satisfied that she was 
eligible for some of the main  elements of the cover. 
Id taken into account that theres  a section  on the store card application form which  says 
My partner or myself are in permanent paid employment (minimum 16 hours per week),  
self-employed or retired, or in receipt  of incapacity allowance . There are boxes to tick 
next to that statement and two other  statements, concerning  the applicants  age and 
residence. It wasnt clear that any of those statements were ticked on Mrs Ms 
application form. But even if the box next to the statement  about  employment was ticked, 
it could equally well have indicated that the applicants partner worked at least  16 hours 
per week.  So I wasnt satisfied that it could safely be taken as an indication  that Mrs M 
herself was employed for at least 16 hours per week.
The eligibility requirements for the PPI werent  set out on the store  card application  form. 
And I hadnt seen  clear evidence that Mrs Ms attention  was drawn  to them  before the 
sale. Given that I wasnt satisfied that Mrs M was eligible for the disability and 
unemployment cover  under the policy, I thought it was unlikely that shed have decided 
to take out the PPI if the eligibility  conditions had been properly brought to her attention. 
This meant I thought Mrs M had lost out as a result of what FICL did wrong.
So based on what Id seen so far, I was planning to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint, and to 
require FICL to put things right as set out in the section headed putting things right 
below.
further submissions
Neither Mrs M nor FICL has made  any comment on my provisional decision,  and the time for 
doing so has now expired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mrs Ms 
case. Having done so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN06712033putting things right
FICL should put Mrs M in the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
What it needs to do depends  on whether Mrs Ms store card account is still open.
if Mrs Ms store card account is still open:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs M would owe on her store  card account if the policy  
hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs M owes and what  she would 
have owed.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs M would have owed each  month without PPI  
Mrs M paid more  than enough  to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple  interest  
on the extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mrs M would  have  owed FICL  something  on her store  card.  The interest rate should  be 
8% a year
C.FICL should tell Mrs M what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs M a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs M that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
if Mrs Ms store card account is now closed:
A.FICL  should  find out how much Mrs M would have owed when she closed her store  
card account if the policy hadnt been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs M owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
Ref: DRN06712034B.FICL  should  add simple interest on the difference between  what Mrs M would have 
owed when she closed her account from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL  works out what  Mrs M would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs M paid more  than enough  to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple  interest  
on the extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mrs M would  have  owed FICL  something  on her store  card.  The interest rate should  be 
8% a year
D.FICL  should  tell Mrs M what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs M a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs M that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I require Financial Insurance  Company Limited  to 
put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019. 
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0671203