K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs Js complaint  is about  a legal expenses  insurance claim they made on their 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited (LV) policy.
Mr and Mrs J are concerned about  the way in which their claim was handled.
Background
Mr and Mrs J instructed  a firm of solicitors (firm A) to act for them in respect of personal 
injury claims arising out of two separate road traffic  incidents which took place on the same  
day. They were  unhappy  with that firm so instructed another to act for them  (firm B). Firm B 
sought funding  from LV but LV said Mr and Mrs J would only have  the freedom to choose  
their own solicitor when proceedings because necessary. As a consequence LV instructed a 
panel firm of solicitors (firm C) to consider  the claim.
Mr and Mrs J became  unhappy with firm C. LV looked into things for them and agreed to 
appoint another  firm. They got in touch with another panel firm (firm D) and asked them  to 
act for Mr and Mrs J. Firm D said they werent prepared to act for Mr and Mrs J. LV then got 
in touch with another  panel  firm (firm E) and asked  them to act. Firm E also said they werent 
prepared to act but agreed to obtain  a barristers opinion on the merits of the claims 
Mr and Mrs J wished to bring so that LV could  decide whether to fund them. The legal 
opinion they had from firm C was positive so LV said theyd look to funding  the claim but told 
Mr and Mrs J theyd run out of panel  solicitors to offer them. Because  of this they said that if 
Mr and Mrs J could source  their own solicitors, they would  fund their reasonable costs in 
pursuing their claims. In the meantime firm E would obtain an opinion  on the merits of the 
claims and the value of them.
During this time the limitation  date for the claim was approaching. Firm C had issued 
protective proceedings for Mr and Mrs J but asked the Court for them to be stayed until 
February 2019. Because of this LV said time Mr and Mrs J should find a firm of solicitors to 
act for them  in advance of this so as to prevent  the claim from becoming  time barred.
Mr and Mrs J provided  details  of a firm who they said had agreed  to take on their claims (firm 
F) but when LV contacted them, firm F said they werent prepared  to take them  on. 
Mr and Mrs J also provided details of a further firm (firm G) who also refused to take the 
claims. Mr J then said hed represent  himself  as hed had experience  of doing this and that 
LV should  pay him for this. LV refused as Mr J wasnt a legal  representative.  
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the way in which LV have handled their claim generally. 
They feel LV shouldve done  more  to assist them and that their conduct has led to firms  not 
wanting to take their cases on. They also say that if LV had covered firm Bs costs  to start 
with, they might not have been  unrepresented  now.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Js complaints  and concluded they shouldnt be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs J dont agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  
Ref: DRN07393562Mr and Mrs Js complaint  should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs J have made a number of complaints about LV. I want  to assure them  that Ive 
considered each of those  but I wont be addressing them all in this decision. Rather Ive 
focussed on their key areas of concern.
Mr and Mrs J have said that if they were allowed to use firm B when they initially approached 
LV, they wouldnt have  found themselves unrepresented now.  I understand why they feel 
this way but I dont  think LV werent obliged to let them choose their own solicitors at that 
stage. Thats  because  the policy didnt give them the freedom to do so unless proceedings 
were necessary. Mr and Mrs J didnt provide anything to support this was the case  at that 
stage. We generally agree with that approach unless a panel firm an insurer wishes  to use 
has a conflict of interest or where  there are exceptional circumstances that mean  a 
policyholder should use a solicitor of their own choosing. An example of that might  include 
where the matter  is so complex or difficult that its better suited to a specialist firm.
I note that Mr J has said that he was told by LV that if his claim was for brain or spinal injury, 
he could use his own choice of solicitors. What LV said was that Mr and Mrs J would have 
freedom to choose their own solicitors  if there  were  special  circumstances. This is broadly in 
line with our approach.  I know  that Mr and Mrs J feel their injuries meant  they shouldve  had 
freedom to choose their own solicitors  but I dont agree.  LV didnt know  about  the nature of 
their injuries  when Mr and Mrs J made  their claim,  but even if they did, I dont think  this 
wouldve made a difference.  Mr and Mrs J feel that their injuries were significant,  but what  
Ive seen of the underlying claim- including the barristers  opinion-  doesnt accord with this. 
Rather the injuries they sustained appear  to be of low value and moderate in nature and 
there is nothing that suggests that specialist  representation is required to properly pursue the 
claims. 
Mr and Mrs J are also unhappy that LV directed them to use firm C in this matter. 
Mr and Mrs Js concern  about this seems  to stem from a previous experience they had of 
using this firm. But Ive seen nothing that supports they made  LV aware of this when LV 
instructed firm C. And as soon as Mr and Mrs J complained about their experience with firm 
C, LV tried to find them alternative representation.  So I cant say LV did something wrong. 
And I cant comment on the level of service  Mr and Mrs J received from firm C or any other  
firm. Firms  of solicitors  have their own regulator and complaints procedure. If Mr and Mrs J 
remain unhappy, they should  raise  their concerns with those firms first and then the Legal  
Ombudsman who is entirely separate to this Service.
Mr and Mrs J are also unhappy that LV said they only had one panel firm of solicitors. Ive 
not determined  this issue because I dont think it makes a difference  to the outcome of their 
complaint or how their claim was handled.  Legal  expenses insurers often have changing 
relationships with panel firms so it may be that they did only have one panel  firm for a 
particular type of work at the time but then acquired  more. As Ive said it makes little 
difference to the way in which LV handled their claim  so I wont  be commenting on this issue  
any further.
I understand that Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that LV arent offering them the use of any 
further panel solicitors.  Ive considered  everything  and the reasons why each of the panel 
solicitors they tried to source for Mr and Mrs J said they werent prepared to act. And Im 
satisfied that in the circumstances,  LV did all they could to help Mr and Mrs J. They  also 
made proactive efforts to try to agree funding arrangements with firms F and G. In the 
Ref: DRN07393563circumstances I think it was fair for LV to ask Mr and Mrs J to source their own solicitors,  
with the offer to fund their reasonable legal costs.
I know that Mr and Mrs J are unhappy  with an error LV made when one of their claims 
handlers told them that firm E would  be prepared to act for them.  I can see from the papers 
LV have provided that there was confusion around this issue and that the wrong information 
was given to Mr and Mrs J about this. LV have apologised for this error  which I think  is the 
appropriate response. But I dont  think they need to do anything more.  The error  didnt  cause 
Mr and Mrs Js claim  to be delayed. And Mr and Mrs J had the option to choose  their own 
solicitors some time before that error  was made.  It didnt prevent them  from doing  so and the 
misinformation was remedied  fairly quickly after it occurred. 
Mr and Mrs J have talked a lot about LV prejudicing their claim.  But I dont think  thats  right. 
Firm C issued  protective proceedings on their behalf  then arranged  for those proceedings to 
be stayed until February  2019. Mr and Mrs J were on notice that they needed to ensure an 
application was made to pursue the claim before that date some considerable months before 
the time expired. Ive seen  clear  correspondence to Mr and Mrs J putting  them  on notice of 
this and explaining what needs to be done. Consequently it was up to Mr and Mrs J to 
protect their position. If they havent  done  so, thats  not something  I think LV are responsible 
for.
Finally Mr and Mrs J wanted  LV to pay them to represent themselves. The policy  is in place 
to cover legal  representatives  costs and not a litigant  in person for pursuing  their own claim.  
So I dont  think it was unreasonable for LV to turn down this request.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint against Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0739356