K822xComplaint
Mr P complains Santander UK Plc turned down a claim he made  under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
Background 
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings  on it, can be found in my 
provisional decision dated 4 June 2020, which is attached to and forms a part of this final 
decision.
In brief summary, I thought Santander  had been  wrong to turn down Mr Ps claim. I 
concluded Mr P had had a right to cancel his purchase of a car component  under  the 
relevant distance  selling legislation, and his cancellation had given rise to contractual 
responsibilities which the supplier of the car component had breached.  Due to the provisions 
of section 75 of the CCA, I considered Mr P could hold Santander liable for these breaches 
of contract. I said I was minded  to direct Santander  to put things right as a result.
Mr P hasnt replied to my provisional decision. Santander replied to say only that it accepted  
the decision. The case has been returned to me again to decide.
My findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party to the complaint  has put forward any new arguments or evidence for 
me to consider, I see no reason  to depart from the findings I made in my provisional 
decision. It follows that I find Santander was wrong to decline Mr Ps claim, for the same  
reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN07812782My final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my attached provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ps 
complaint and direct Santander to take the following actions to put matters right:
Rework Mr Ps credit card account as though the £780 including VAT he had paid to 
X for the HVAC panel had been refunded on 27 November 2017.  This would involve 
refunding the original  amount, any interest  which was charged  on it and any other  
fees Mr P has incurred in relation  to the amount. It should also involve removing 
negative information  (if any) recorded on Mr Ps credit file caused by the transaction.
If reworking the account results  in Mr P having  had a credit balance  on it at any point, 
then Santander  must  calculate 8% simple interest  per year*  on this credit  balance 
from the point at which it would have arisen, to the point at which it would have 
ceased to exist. If a credit  balance  remains on the account after this step then 
Santander should pay this to Mr P.
Reimburse Mr P the 53 euros he paid to have the HVAC panel  shipped back  to X. 
Santander must add 8% simple interest per year* to this payment, calculated from 
the date Mr P originally  paid it, to the date it is reimbursed.
Arrange for the HVAC panel  to be collected from Mr P or otherwise disposed of. This 
must be done at no cost to Mr P.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander  to take tax off this interest.  Santander must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off, if Mr P asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2020.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN07812783COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr P is unhappy  Santander  UK Plc has turned  down a claim he made  under  section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA).
Background
Mr P was abroad with his car when he experienced some problems  with it. Initially, it needed a new 
water pump,  so Mr P contacted a garage (X) he had used several times before and ordered  the 
pump to be delivered  to him abroad.  The car then had another problem  with the battery  draining,  and 
after speaking to X, the cause was identified  as a panel for the heating, ventilation and air-
conditioning (HVAC or HeVAC) system. 
Mr P says he was told a new panel would  cost £1,700, so he asked  X if it could source  a second-hand 
part. X said it could and that the part would cost £650 plus VAT, with no warranty.  Mr P placed an 
order for the part over the phone on 24 November 2017. It was added  to his order for the water pump 
and the items  were to be shipped  together.
The next day Mr P discovered the same panel was on sale from other suppliers, ranging  from £70 to 
£150. He tried to call X to cancel but it was the weekend  and they were  closed, so he left messages  
on their answering machine.
An exchange of messages  ensued between Mr P and X the following week.  Mr P asked to cancel the 
order, it seems on Monday  27 November 2017, but X said the item had been dispatched  that morning 
and Mr P had agreed there  would be no refunds  over the phone. Mr P said he had never  agreed to 
this, but had agreed  there would be no warranty.
During the course of Mr Ps dispute with X, he involved  Santander with a view to making a claim 
under section 75. Santander  advised him to return the panel,  which he posted  back  to X at a cost of 
53 euros. The panel  ended  up being sent back  to Mr P. My investigation indicates this is because 
Santander rang the courier  and asked  them  to cancel  the delivery, but theres also been a suggestion 
that it was because  X refused to accept  the parcel. Either way, the panel  ended up back  with Mr P. 
Santander has said it made a mistake in asking Mr P to return  the panel,  and has paid £100 to him in 
recognition of its poor customer service. However,  it said it didnt  think Mr P had a valid section 75 
claim, so it wouldnt be doing anything further.
Mr P was unhappy  with this response and brought his case  to this service for an independent 
assessment. Two of our investigators looked into the matter and neither  of them concluded Santander 
had been wrong to decline Mr Ps section 75 claim. They  didnt  think  there had been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by X for which Santander would have been  liable under  section 75. Mr 
P has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so the case  has been passed to 
me to review.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time. Having done so, Im intending to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Section 75 of the CCA allows consumers a degree of protection when they make purchases using  a 
credit card, so long as certain  technical criteria  are met relating  to the value of the items purchased 
and the relationship between the parties involved in the transaction. If these  criteria are met then the 
consumer can make  a claim against their credit card provider  for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation made by the supplier  in relation to the purchase.
Ref: DRN07812784It doesnt  appear to be in dispute that the relevant  criteria for section 75 to apply to the transaction  are 
in place here. So Ill say no more on this point other than that, having reviewed the evidence,  I also 
agree section 75 applies to the purchase of the HVAC  panel.
Where Mr P and Santander  disagree is whether a breach of contract  was made  by X, for which 
Santander would be liable. This then, is the key question  Ive had to answer.
Mr Ps main  argument has been that he wasnt able to return the car part. The invoice says (and the 
garage maintains) that the part was sold without  a right of return. The garage says Mr P agreed to this 
over the phone, while  Mr P says he didnt. Ive considered  what  Mr P and X have said, alongside  the 
relevant regulations regarding cancellation of contracts.
The relevant regulations in this case are the Consumer  Contracts (Information, Cancellation  and 
Additional Charges)  Regulations 2013  (CCRs). These only apply to off-premises  sales,  and 
distance sales. I will not set out the full definitions of these here, but to summarise briefly, an off-
premises sale is a sale which takes place  in person, but not at the suppliers  business premises, 
whereas a distance sale is a sale which takes place via the exclusive  use of distance communication. 
Further, in order to qualify  as a distance sale, a sale must take place as part of an 
organiseddistance salesscheme operated by the supplier.
Mr P bought the car part over the telephone, which is a type of distance communication. And based 
on the information on its website, X offers the telephone as one of its regular  sales channels for car 
parts, so I think its fair to conclude  Mr Ps purchase was made via an organised  distance sales 
scheme operated  by X (as opposed to a one-off offered  by X to Mr P as a favour).
Distance sales as defined under the CCRs come with certain rights, set out in sections 29 and 30, in 
relation to cancellation which are relevant to Mr Ps case: namely that if a contract is for goods, the 
consumer has the right to cancel the contract starting from the day it begins and ending 14 days after 
the goods  are delivered to him. Under  the CCRs,  failure  by the supplier to provide a consumer with 
specified information about their cancellation  rights  can cause this cancellation period  to end at a later 
date.
Santander has suggested  Mr P gave  up his right to cancel because he agreed with X that there would 
be no right to a refund.  There are provisions in the CCRs that allow a consumer effectively to waive 
their 14 day cancellation period, but these provisions relate  specifically to contracts for the supply of 
services or digital content. The CCRs  do not say that a consumer can waive their cancellation rights  
for a sales contract, which is what Mr Ps contract was. Additionally,  guidance issued by what was 
then the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills  in 2013 confirms Mr P could not waive his 
right to cancel  by agreeing  something  else with a trader, so I think its immaterial  whether he did or 
didnt acknowledge he couldnt return the part during  a conversation with X. The evidence  shows (and 
it doesnt appear to be in dispute) that Mr P did try to cancel before the 14 days allowed  under the 
CCRs expired, so in my view he validly exercised his right to cancel.
X refused  to accept Mr Ps valid exercise  of his cancellation rights. These rights werent  written into 
his contract with X, so it wasnt a breach of contract when X refused Mr Ps cancellation. However, 
regulation 33 of the CCRs  (Effect of withdrawal or cancellation) says the following:
(1) If a contract  is cancelled  under regulation 29(1)
(a)the cancellation ends  the obligations of the parties to perform the contract, and
(b)regulations 34 to 38 apply.

Regulation 34 (Reimbursement by trader in the event of withdrawal or cancellation) then goes on to 
say:
Ref: DRN07812785(1) The trader must  reimburse all payments, other than payments for delivery, received from the 
consumer, subject to paragraph (10).
(2) The trader  must reimburse  any payment for delivery  received from the consumer, unless the 
consumer expressly chose  a kind of delivery  costing more than the least  expensive common and 
generally acceptable kind of delivery offered by the trader.
(3) In that case, the trader must reimburse any payment for delivery received from the consumer  up to 
the amount the consumer  would have paid if the consumer had chosen the least  expensive common 
and generally acceptable  kind of delivery offered by the trader.

(9) If (in the case of a sales contract) the value of the goods is diminished by any amount as a result 
of handling of the goods by the consumer  beyond what is necessary  to establish the nature, 
characteristics and functioning of the goods, the trader may recover that amount from the consumer, 
up to the contract price.
(10) An amount  that may be recovered under  paragraph (9)
(a)may be deducted  from the amount to be reimbursed under paragraph (1);
(b)otherwise, must be paid by the consumer to the trader.

(13) Where the provisions of this regulation  apply to cancellation of a contract, the contract is to be 
treated as including those provisions as terms.
Subsection 13 is especially  relevant to Mr Ps case because its effect  is to make  it a term of his 
contract with X that if he validly exercises his cancellation rights, X must  give him a refund (subject  to 
deductions which can be made in specific circumstances). Therefore by refusing to refund Mr P when 
he cancelled the contract, X was in breach  of contract. 
Taking into account the provisions of section 75 of the CCA, I think  Mr P is able to claim  against 
Santander in respect of Xs breach of contract and ask that it put things right.  This means  I think the 
bank was wrong  to decline Mr Ps claim.
Ref: DRN07812786Putting things right
I turn now to what Santander  should do to put things right for Mr P. According  to the CCRs,  Mr P 
should have received a refund and returned the goods. Ordinarily,  Mr P would  have had to pay for the 
goods to be returned, but I dont think he does in this case. Ill explain why.
Regulation 35 of the CCRs (Return of goods in the event  of cancellation)  states the following 
(underlined for emphasis):
(1) Where  a sales contract is cancelled under regulation 29(1), it is the traders responsibility to 
collect the goods if
(a)the trader has offered to collect them,  or
(b)in the case of an off-premises contract, the goods were delivered to the consumers  home when 
the contract was entered into and could  not, by their nature, normally be returned by post.
(2) If it is not the traders responsibility under paragraph  (1) to collect the goods,  the consumer  must
(a)send them back, or
(b)hand them  over to the trader  or to a person authorised by the trader  to receive them.

Ref: DRN07812787(5) The consumer  must bear the direct  cost of returning goods under paragraph (2), unless 
(a)the trader has agreed to bear those costs,  or
(b)the trader failed to provide the consumer  with the information about  the consumer  bearing those 
costs, required by paragraph  (m) of Schedule 2, in accordance with Part 2.
(6) The contract is to be treated as including  a term that the trader must  bear the direct cost of the 
consumer returning  goods under paragraph (2) where paragraph  (5)(b) applies.
(7) The consumer  is not required to bear any other cost of returning goods under paragraph (2).
(8) The consumer  is not required to bear any cost of collecting goods under  paragraph (1) unless  the 
consumer agreed to bear them.
The information contained  in paragraph (m) of Schedule  2 referred  to above is the following:
(m) where applicable,  that the consumer will have to bear the cost of returning  the goods in case of 
cancellation and, for distance contracts,  if the goods, by their nature,  cannot  normally be returned by 
post, the cost of returning the goods;
In this case X doesnt  appear to have agreed to collect the panel, or bear the costs  of Mr P returning  
it. X also hasnt, as far as I have seen, given Mr P the information contained in paragraph  (m). To give 
Mr P this information would have been incompatible  with Xs position throughout  the dispute,  which is 
that Mr P cannot  return  the panel at all, so I think on balance it is unlikely that it gave Mr P this 
information. This means, due to the operation of subsection  6, that Mr Ps contract with X is treated  as 
including a term that X must bear the direct  cost of returning the goods. Mr P paid 53 euros to have 
the panel  returned. X hasnt reimbursed him this so I think this is another  breach  of contract  for which 
Mr P could claim against Santander, taking into account the provisions of section 75 of the CCA.
Finally, I note Mr P should  also get a refund of any of the original delivery costs for the goods,  subject  
to the limitations  outlined in regulation 34 of the CCRs. As I understand it, the panel was packaged  
with the water pump Mr P bought  and was happy to keep,  and the cost of delivery  was likely to have 
been the same with or without the panel.  In light of this I dont think Santander  should have to refund 
what Mr P paid for the original delivery  in this particular  case.
Taking into consideration  all the facts of Mr Ps case, I think Santander should refund the amount he 
paid for the HVAC panel.  As he has already tried to return the panel without success, I dont think he 
should have to try to return this again  in order to receive  his refund. However,  Santander should 
arrange for the panel to be collected or otherwise disposed of, at no cost to Mr P, and reimburse him 
the 53 euros he paid in an attempt  to return the panel. Santander has also paid Mr P £100 in 
recognition of its customer service failings   this seems to be a fair amount  to cover  the hassle it has 
caused Mr P, so I dont intend to ask Santander  to pay anything further in respect of this.
Ref: DRN07812788My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think Santander was wrong to decline Mr Ps section 75 claim 
and I intend to direct it to take the following  actions to put matters right:
Rework Mr Ps credit card account as though the £780 including VAT he had paid to X for the 
HVAC panel had been refunded on 27 November  2017. This would involve  refunding the 
original amount, any interest which  was charged on it and any other fees Mr P has incurred in 
relation to the amount. It should also involve  removing negative  information  (if any) recorded 
on Mr Ps credit file caused by the transaction.
If reworking the account results in Mr P having had a credit balance on it at any point,  then 
Santander must calculate 8% simple interest per year*  on this credit balance  from the point at 
which it would have arisen, to the point  at which it would have ceased  to exist. If a credit  
balance remains on the account after this step then Santander should pay this to Mr P.
Reimburse Mr P the 53 euros  he paid to have the HVAC  panel shipped back to X. Santander 
must add 8% simple  interest per year* to this payment, calculated  from the date Mr P 
originally paid it, to the date it is reimbursed.
Arrange for the HVAC  panel to be collected  from Mr P or otherwise disposed of. This must be 
done at no cost to Mr P.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Santander  to take tax off this interest. Santander must  give Mr P a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off, if Mr P asks for one.
I now invite  both parties to the complaint to submit any further evidence or arguments they want  me to 
consider. They should make sure these reach me by 4 July 2020.  I will then review the case  again.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0781278