K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that Speedloan Finance Limited, trading as Albemarle  Bond,  sold a pledge  
item before the end of the pawn agreement. 
background
In October  2017 Mr N pawned an item of jewellery and entered  into a fixed  sum loan 
agreement with Speedloan Finance Limited.  But they sold it by mistake before the end of the 
agreement and Mr N was very disappointed as it was of sentimental value to him.
He complained to Speedloan Finance Limited  and they apologised for their mistake.  They  
explained that in these  circumstances  they replaced  items on a second hand basis. They  
said the second hand value of the jewellery  was £506.26 but they offered Mr N a total of 
£818.13 to compensate him for the time hed had to wait and the distress their mistake had 
caused him as well as for the cost of the replacement item.
But Mr N wasnt  happy with their offer so he referred his complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator didnt think the compensation  was enough. He reviewed similar items to see how 
much it would cost Mr N to get a replacement and he thought that was about £650.  So he 
suggested Speedloan Finance Limited  should increase their offer by £150:  that being  the 
difference between  their valuation and his.
Speedloan Finance Limited disputed the adjudicators opinion on replacement values so the 
complaint was referred to an ombudsman to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Speedloan Finance  Limited but I agree with the adjudicators view 
and for similar  reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The fact that Speedloan  Finance Limited  made  a mistake here is not in dispute. They sold 
Mr Ns jewellery and he therefore lost an opportunity to redeem it. I can understand that the 
item would have been of sentimental value  to him.
Its important to try to put Mr N back in the situation  he wouldve been in if the mistake hadnt 
happened and, as the item has been  sold,  its unfortunately not possible  to give him it back.  
So the best option would be to compensate him so that he can buy a similar item. But I dont 
think that item should be new.  That would  put Mr N in a better position and that wouldnt be 
reasonable. 
Ref: DRN09588732Im persuaded that the adjudicators assessment of current market value is realistic as I think 
this is what Mr N would find if he tried to source a replacement:  its a realistic valuation  of the 
replacement.
The business has already provided  compensation for distress and inconvenience within their 
offer of settlement so I think a fair resolution  of the matter would be to increase the overall  
sum by an additional  £150 to represent the more reasonable valuation the adjudicator has 
provided.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I tell Speedloan  Finance Limited to:
Honour its original offer of £818.13  
Pay Mr N an additional £150 to better  reflect the cost of the item thats  been  lost
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0958873