K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) provided incorrect information  
on two separate  occasions. He says the stress, disruption to his life has been significant,  
and he wants Scottish  Widows  to adequately  compensate him for this.
background
Mr N held a stakeholder pension with Scottish Widows and received yearly statements. 
When he received his May 2018 statement, he noticed it stated on page three that he 
planned to take his benefits earlier than his Chosen  Retirement Age, which was not correct.
Mr N complained about this asking Scottish  Widows for compensation of £500, which 
included fees for legal advice. Scottish Widows accepted they had made a mistake  and 
offered £150 as an apology instead, feeling that it was Mr Ns own decision to take legal  
advice, and that they should not have to compensate for this. Mr N accepted this offer, 
resolving the complaint.  This amount was further increased to £175 for the late receipt of 
these funds.
On 29 October 2018, Scottish Widows sent Mr N transfer forms to move his pension 
overseas, but he hadnt requested them. Mr N complained about this error.
On 1 November  2018, he telephoned  Scottish  Widows to complain about the receipt  of the 
overseas transfer  forms and to clarify  he hadnt requested them.  He wanted to be sure;  there 
hadnt been any fraudulent activity on his account. Scottish Widows confirmed this was an 
unfortunate administrative error and apologised for any inconvenience offering £75 in 
recognition of this. After  further discussion about  Mr Ns personal  health position, they 
agreed to increase this offer to £150. Scottish Widows say Mr N accepted this offer as 
resolution of the complaint.
On 2 November  2018, Scottish  Widows received  a letter of complaint from Mr N, by 
recorded delivery. In this letter Mr N explains the impact the transfer  forms had were  so 
significant as to render him unconscious and he was seeking £2,000 compensation for this. 
A representative telephoned  Mr N to discuss  the matter. They  said Mr N hadnt mentioned  
this during their telephone all the previous day, they explained why they felt £150 was 
reasonable in the circumstances. Scottish  Widows  say Mr N suggested if they increased  
their offer to £300, he would accept it and take no further action. They  agreed to consider the 
matter and sent a final written response.
On 6 November  2018, Scottish  Widows issued their final response.  In it, they said they had 
failed to provide  Mr N with the level of service they would expect but felt the amount Mr N 
was seeking to be disproportionate to the administrative error they had made.  They offered 
Mr N a further £50 making a total of £200 in recognition of their error and the trouble and 
upset this caused.
Mr N brought his complaint to this service.  The adjudicator considered  all the information  
and noted that Scottish Widows had apologised for its errors and he felt had made  
reasonable offers in order to compensate Mr N for any upset the issues  had caused. He 
didnt uphold  Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N continued to disagree with the view. He felt the compensation offered wasnt  reflective  
of the impact  the matter had on his health.  He asked for an ombudsman review. 
Ref: DRN00357612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so, Im in agreement with the adjudicators  view and Ill explain 
why.
Theres no dispute between the parties that Scottish  Widows made  two administrative errors 
on Mr Ns account. The crux of this complaint lies in whether or not the compensation 
offered by Scottish  Widows  is proportionate  to the errors made.  I think its important to say at 
this point that my role here isnt to fine or punish  a business where errors have clearly 
occurred, but rather  to look at how the business has sought to address the issues  and 
whether that approach is fair and reasonable.
The first administrative error was a rogue sentence in Mr Ns annual pension  statement that 
wrongly suggested he planned to take his pension  benefits earlier  than his chosen 
retirement age, which was incorrect. Sottish  Widows  have said they were aware a system  
error had occurred in May and June 2018  resulting in an incorrect sentence on some  annual 
statements, and were  taking steps to write to affected customers when  Mr N contacted them.  
They acknowledged  the error  and apologised to Mr N for the inconvenience and after noting  
his health concerns, they offered £150 by way of compensation. They  didnt agree to refund 
Mr Ms claim  for his legal  fees. 
Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable redress for an administrative error  which  whilst 
concerning, hasnt resulted in any financial loss. I appreciate  Mr N feels paying for legal 
advice on the matter has cost him in the region  of £300 but it was his choice to consult a 
solicitor before contacting Scottish  Widows. If he had ascertained the position first, there 
would have been no need to do so. I note Mr N hasnt been  able to provide any receipt  or 
invoice for the legal consultation as he paid in cash.  Im afraid I wouldnt be able to ask a 
business to reimburse  costs without this anyway.
With regard to the second administrative  error, the sending  of overseas transfer request 
forms which Mr N hadnt requested. I can understand this must have been very 
disconcerting for Mr N but I havent  seen any evidence of his claim of permanent  damage to 
his health as a direct result of receiving these  forms.
Mr N raised his complaint  by telephone  and had a full discussion with a Scottish  Widows 
representative about the distress the transfer  forms caused him. It seems he was also able 
to write a letter of complaint, which Scottish Widows  received  by recorded delivery the 
following day. I also note Mr N was able to speak to his legal adviser. So whilst I dont doubt  
this matter caused Mr N alarm  and upset I havent seen any evidence  of permanent and long 
standing damage  to his health as a result  of receiving these forms. I can see from the 
information provided Scottish Widows  reassured  him very shortly after receiving the transfer 
forms, that this was again an unfortunate administrative error. Scottish Widows first offered 
£75 for the inconvenience  but then increased this to £150 after Mr N explained how upset 
and concerned he was. After receiving the recorded  delivery letter, they made  a further  
payment of £50, awarding a total of £200  for the second administrative  error.
Im persuaded Scottish Widows have acted fairly and reasonably in considering the impact 
both administrative errors have had on Mr N. I dont doubt this has been most disconcerting  
for Mr N but the compensation  Scottish Widows have offered is broadly what I would expect  
Ref: DRN00357613in the circumstances of this complaint  and so Im not going to ask them  to do anything 
further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0035761