K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that he didnt receive  an item he purchased with finance from Clydesdale  
Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance)  (BPF).
background
On 2 January  2019 Mr C purchased a phone from an online store  and entered into a fixed  
sum loan agreement with BPF. The loan was activated on 3 January 2019.
On or around 10 January  2019 Mr C contacted  BPF and complained that he had received an 
empty box. Mr C told BPF he had contacted the supplier but it refused to do anything. Mr C 
provided a photo  of the empty box. BPF told Mr C it was unable to uphold the complaint 
based on the evidence. 
Mr C says hes been asked to make payments under the agreement. He doesnt  think this is 
fair because  he hasnt received the phone.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that on the balance  of probability it was 
unlikely that the box had been despatched empty  because it had been sent by tracked mail 
and was shown  to have a weight of up to 1kg. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said that he believed the someone had taken the phone whilst the box 
was in transit. He remained  unhappy  at being asked to pay for something he hadnt 
received.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  says that in certain circumstances  the borrower 
under a credit agreement  has an equal  right to claim against the credit provider if theres 
been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. 
Mr C says theres been a breach of contract  because he hasnt received the goods he paid 
for.
In order to uphold  this complaint, I would need  to be satisfied that the goods  werent  
delivered to Mr C. The way in which this service approaches complaints about section 75 is 
to look at whats happened and assess whether BPF made  a mistake in the way it 
considered the section  75 claim.
Mr C is adamant that he received an empty box. I dont underestimate Mr Cs strength  of 
feeling about what happened  but Im conscious that the only evidence  hes provided is a 
photo of an empty box which  is addressed  to him.
The photo  shoes  that the box was correctly addressed to Mr C and sent by tracked mail with 
a weighed value  of up to 1kg.
I dont think its likely  that the supplier would have  dispatched an empty box in a weighed 
package. Its more likely that the complete item was sent to Mr C.
Ref: DRN01068612Mr C has suggested that the package was tampered  with in transit. Whilst this is possible, I 
dont think its likely  because the package is likely  to have  suffered damage as a result.  I 
havent seen anything to suggest that this is the case.
On balance, and whilst  I appreciate that Mr C will be disappointed by my decision, I dont 
think BPF acted unfairly or unreasonably  when it looked at the section 75 claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0106861