K821x#15complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited refused a claim under  her Home 
Emergency policy. She complains of delay and poor communication  and says the British  
Gas engineer misdiagnosed the problem.
background
I attach a copy of the provisional decision I sent to the parties on 7 July 2020. 
In that decision  I explained why I was minded  to uphold  the complaint, and what I thought  
British Gas should do to put things right. 
Mrs G replied and said,  in summary,  that she didnt think the compensation was enough 
given that she was paying around £71 a month for the insurance policy. She said she 
thought the policy was effectively useless for a flat which  had shared mains  water.
British Gas sent me some further  comments from its engineers. They  said, in summary, that:
they could  have done the work if Mrs G had arranged  to have the water turned off;
they were unable to freeze pipes as their engineers werent  trained  to do this and it 
would not be covered  under the policy;
they asked  what  difficulties Mrs G had had in contacting  British  Gas and why she 
arranged for a private plumber rather than raising  another  job with British Gas.
The matter  has now been passed back to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has persuaded me to change  my mind from my provisional decision.
The engineers have confirmed that they could have  done the work if Mrs G had arranged to 
have the water turned off. I think that is more likely than not what  would have happened if 
the engineers  had correctly identified the problem  and explained  to Mrs G what she needed 
to do.
Mrs G asked for another British Gas engineer to be sent out, but this didnt happen. In the 
circumstances, and given  the pressure Mrs G was under  from the other parties involved,  I 
think she had little alternative but to arrange for her own plumbers to attend.
So I think its fair that British Gas should compensate Mrs G for the cost she incurred in 
employing alternative plumbers. And I think £500 for the trouble and distress she was 
caused is fair. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN00425062British Gas Insurance Limited must now:
pay Mrs G £912  to compensate her for the cost of employing  her own plumbers; and
pay Mrs G £500  for the trouble and distress  she has been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 September  2020.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00425063provisional decision
complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited  refused a claim under her Home Emergency 
policy. She complains  of delay and poor communication and says the British Gas engineer  
misdiagnosed the problem.
background
The background  to this complaint is set out at some length in our investigators letter of 1 October 
2019, so I wont repeat it all here.
Briefly, Mrs G owned a flat which was tenanted.  On 22 September 2017 the Housing Association 
informed Mrs G that water  was leaking  from her property to the flat below and causing a stain on the 
ceiling. 
Mrs G contacted British  Gas to make a claim  under  her Home  Emergency policy. The plumbing and 
drains part of the policy covered her for repairs to pipes within her property including leaks to internal 
waste water  pipes and external soil and vent pipes. 
The policy didnt cover  shared drains. And there  was a general exclusion from cover which  said if we 
cant turn off the external  water  supply  stopcock to your home to complete your repairs its up to you 
to get your water supplier  to turn it off.
After some difficulties (detailed in our investigators letter) a British Gas engineer  visited the property 
on 4 November  2017.  Mrs G says the engineer  telephoned  her to say the leak wasnt coming from her 
property but from a shared mains pipe between the two flats.
Mrs G informed  the Housing  Association of this but, about  a week later,  it told her its own plumber 
had confirmed  that the leak was from her property and not the pipe between the flats.
Mrs G then complained  to British Gas. She asked if it would send out another  engineer. And she 
asked for a copy of the engineers report so she could show this to the Housing Association. 
British Gas didnt send another engineer  and Mrs G says she didnt receive a copy  of the engineers  
report.
In response to her complaint British Gas sent a final response letter dated  20 January  2018 in which it 
offered her £100 compensation. Mrs G didnt  accept this because she didnt think  British Gas had 
addressed all the parts  of her complaint. On 7 March 2018 British Gas sent another  final response 
letter in which is offered a further £150 compensation for wrong diagnosis and overall  poor service. 
Mrs G didnt accept.
Mrs G then arranged for her own plumbers  to attend.  An extract from their report  states:
"traced leak to elbow behind toilet removed  toilet to access leaking  pipe unable  to shut off mains  so 
had to freeze pipe and replace leaking pipework on removal of toilet  found  close coupled kit rotten 
and ball valve cross threaded and had been leaking replaced ball valve and close coupled kit re fitted  
toilet tested".
Mrs G then brought her complaint  to us. Our investigator asked British Gas for some further 
clarification. It explained that its engineer couldnt do the repair because the main supply was shared, 
and he couldnt remove the toilet because he couldnt turn off the mains. It said that Mrs Gs plumber 
had frozen  the pipe in order to remove the toilet  but that British Gas doesnt freeze pipes and so its 
engineer couldnt do the work.
Ref: DRN00425064In her letter of 1 October 2019 our investigator explained why she thought the complaint  should be 
upheld. She recommended that British Gas reimburse  Mrs G for the money shed paid her own 
plumbers. She also thought it should pay Mrs G £500 for the trouble and upset  shed  been caused.
British Gas didnt agree.  It provided a response from its engineers in which they said they would have 
arranged a second opinion if Mrs G had asked for one and that under  the policy we are unable to 
freeze pipework It also said it thought the costs charged by Mrs Gs plumbers were excessive and 
more than it would have charged for private work.
Our investigator reviewed the case again. In an email to British Gas dated 27 January 2020 she 
explained that she still thought the complaint should be upheld. As well as her earlier 
recommendation she said she also thought British Gas should pay Mrs G for the re-decoration work 
shed had done. The investigator  thought  this work  wouldnt have been needed  if British Gas had 
dealt with the leak promptly.
As agreement  couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I largely agree with what our investigator  has said. The timeline of events  is set out clearly in her letter 
of 1 October 2019 and Im persuaded by Mrs Gs testimony  that she had considerable  difficulty in 
arranging for British Gas to visit. The claim was reported around 22 September and the engineer  
didnt attend until 4 November. During this time its clear  that Mrs G was coming under a lot of 
pressure from the other parties  involved. This was causing  her a great deal of stress. Thats clear 
from the records of the telephone calls she made to British Gas and from her letters of complaint.
Im also inclined to agree that the leak was coming from Mrs Gs property and not from a shared pipe 
between the flats which  is what  Mrs G says she was told. Mrs Gs own plumbers  appear to have 
isolated and dealt with the leak from within her property.
There does appear to have been some confusion as to why the claim was refused. Mrs G says the 
engineer told her it was because the leak wasnt coming  from her property.  British Gas has described 
the problem variously as being with a shared  drain and a shared main and has more recently  
clarified that it was because  the engineer  couldnt turn off the mains  which were  shared  with other 
flats.
Ive looked at the policy  and I cant see that being unable to turn off the mains  excludes  cover under 
the policy.  I can see that it does  say that if the engineer is unable  to turn off an external water supply 
to the property to complete  repairs then it would be up to the policyholder to arrange  this. But I dont 
think this was explained to Mrs G, or that she was given the opportunity to arrange  a way of having 
the repairs  carried out, perhaps though enlisting  the help of the Housing Association.
Also, I cant see anything  in the policy  which says British Gas is unable to freeze pipes to carry  out 
repairs. I appreciate  that it might not do this as a matter of practice, but 
if thats  the case I think it should have explained the issue of the shared water main and explored with 
Mrs G the options for having the repair done. 
I also note that the British Gas engineer says it would have arranged a second opinion if Mrs G had 
asked for it. But in her letter to British Gas dated 5 December 2017 Mrs G asks, will you send out 
another engineer  to check your engineer  was right It doesnt  appear that Mrs G received a reply  to 
this question and no further visit was arranged.
Ref: DRN00425065Taking all this into account Im inclined to think that British  Gas didnt deal with this claim well. There 
were delays and poor communication and it hasnt  satisfactorily explained  why it thinks  the claim 
wasnt covered under  the policy.
So, overall,  my provisional  view is that our investigators  recommendation that British  Gas should 
reimburse Mrs G for the cost of employing  her own plumbers was reasonable. Ive noted British Gass  
comments about the costs being higher than it would  have charged for private work but the aim is to 
make sure Mrs G isnt left out of pocket, so I think its fair that British Gas reimburse her the amount 
shes paid. I dont  think  the costs were so high that it wasnt reasonable for Mrs G to pay them.
I also think  the recommendation of £500 compensation for distress is reasonable in this case. Mrs G 
was clearly put to a lot of trouble trying  to sort this out and she was under  a lot of pressure from the 
other parties concerned.  I think its clear from her contact with British  Gas that she was very 
distressed by the whole episode.
Where I depart slightly from our investigator is that I dont think I can reasonably ask British Gas to 
cover the cost of the redecorating. Whilst the policy covers making  good including filling  and 
plastering, it specifically excludes redecorating. 
The invoices Mrs G has supplied refer to re-tiling  behind the toilet and new wallpaper. I think its likely 
that this work  would have been needed even if the claim,  and leak,  had been dealt with promptly.  And 
I think  they are what would  typically be regarded as decorative  finishes and not included  within the 
scope of the policy.  It may, of course, be that Mrs G has other  insurance which would cover this 
aspect, but I dont think  I can fairly ask British Gas to pay for it.
my provisional  decision
British Gas Insurance Limited  should:
pay Mrs G £912 to compensate her for the cost of employing her own plumbers; and
pay Mrs G £500 for the trouble and distress  she has been caused.
Ref: DRN0042506