K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that a used car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with RCI 
Financial Services Limited  (RCIFS)  had been  mis-sold to him.
background
In August  2017  Mr W acquired a used car via a 40 month hire purchase agreement. The 
mileage on the agreement and invoice form was just over 13,000.
However, several months later Mr W discovered that the MOT carried  out on the car in 
October 2016 had a recorded mileage of just under 16,000 which  was around 2,850 miles 
more than had been shown on the odometer when  hed acquired the car in August 2017. Mr 
W says he was concerned this discrepancy in the mileage meant the car could have  been  
tampered with. He complained to RCIFS and said he wanted to reject the car as it had been 
mis-sold to him.
RCIFS didnt uphold  his complaint. It said that having spoken  with the dealership  it was 
satisfied the mileage recorded on the MOT had been the result of a clerical error and 
actually referred to when  the cars  next service was due. It also said that it had confirmed 
with the manufacturer that the odometer  couldnt  be tampered with and so the car hadnt 
been mis-sold to Mr W.
Mr W was unhappy at RCIFSs response to his complaint and complained  to this service. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Ws complaint  should  be upheld.  She said that Mr W 
should have been made aware of the mistake on the MOTs  mileage so that he could have 
made an informed decision as to whether he wanted to acquire the car. 
Our adjudicator said Mr W had been  clear that if he had known there was an issue over the 
mileage recorded  on the MOT in 2016  and the cars odometer reading at the point of sale he 
wouldnt have proceeded to purchase  the car. 
Our adjudicator said she thought the car had been  mis-sold to Mr W and that it would be fair 
for the agreement to be cancelled and the car returned. She said didnt think  that the mis-
sale had caused  Mr W any distress and inconvenience as he had been able to have full use 
of the car so she didnt think either  compensation or the reimbursement of payments made  
under the agreement were warranted. But Mr W should be reimbursed his deposit with 
interest and the agreement removed from his credit file.
RCIFS disagreed with our adjudicators view. It said it didnt accept that if Mr W had been  
aware of the clerical  error  that this would have  affected his decision to purchase the car. He 
had been aware  of the cars mileage at the point of sale and had been happy at its price. No 
concerns about  the mileage had been raised with the dealership at the point of sale.  If Mr W 
had done so then it could  have reassured  him that the mileage couldnt be altered and this 
was just an administrative error.
RCIFS said there was no evidence produced that the mileage  had been  altered and it had 
provided evidence  that the MOT recorded mileage was as administrative error.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed  to me.
Ref: DRN01572742my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The issue  for me to decide is whether Mr 
W was able to make an informed decision about  going ahead with the purchase of this car.
RCIFS queries why Mr W didnt raise his complaint about the mileage at the time he took the 
car. Mr W says he was only aware of the mileage issue  on the MOT  certificate when he took 
the car for its next MOT.  He says he was handed the 2016 MOT by the salesperson  at the 
dealership when he picked the car up and was told by the salesperson that they had 
checked everything and the car had passed  its MOT. Mr W says he hadnt  felt the need to 
double-check closely what hed been told.
Although Mr W would have been able to compare the mileage on the MOT with that shown 
on the cars other documents  Im not surprised he didnt check  to that level of detail. The 
important information  hed been  given  was the car had passed  its MOT.  The cars mileage 
was on the other documentation and I dont think most people  would  expect there to be an 
issue with what was recorded on the MOT.
However, I think its reasonable to expect that the salesperson would  have looked  carefully  
at all the documents that were being provided  with the car to ensure their validity  and that 
the car wasnt being misrepresented  in anyway. Here, if the salesperson  had done so then 
the discrepancy would have  been clear and could have been raised with Mr W allowing him 
to make an informed decision about  whether he wanted to proceed with buying the car or 
not. So I dont  agree with RCIFS that the dealership couldnt be expected to know there was 
an issue with the MOT.
RCIFS says it doesnt accept that the mileage error is as important as Mr W says it is and if 
hed known that he would have still taken  the car. I accept there is no evidence the car has 
been tampered with but I can understand why Mr W would  have concerns. Errors of this 
nature can have an impact on how easily the car is sold on to someone else and although I 
cant reasonably  say someone  else wouldnt  have  bought the car from Mr W in the future it is 
possible questions would  have  been  raised about  the discrepancy in the mileage. 
I think Mr W has been clear that if hed known about  the mileage discrepancy between  the 
MOT and the actual  odometers  reading  at the time he acquired  the car he wouldnt have 
gone ahead  with the agreement to purchase it. And this applies whether the issue  had arisen 
from a clerical error or for some other  reason. 
RCIFS say that Mr Ws view is unreasonable in light of this being only an admin error and 
that Mr W was happy with the car as he agreed to buy it and hasnt raised  any issues with it 
until he found out about the MOT error.  But I cant say that Mr Ws reaction was one that no 
reasonable person would have had. I think its understandable to have concerns if mileages 
dont match in a cars history.
So I think Mr W wouldnt have bought  this car if hed had the error on the MOT pointed out to 
him regardless of the explanation that could have been provided  at the time. I also think it is 
reasonable to have  expected this error  to have  been pointed out to Mr W before he signed  
the credit  agreement and agreed to take the car. So Im upholding Mr Ws complaint.
As Mr W wouldnt have  gone ahead with buying  the car then it is reasonable for the 
agreement to now be cancelled with nothing further to pay and for the car to be returned.  He 
Ref: DRN01572743should be reimbursed  his total deposit and also for the paint protection  that was added to the 
cost of the car. 
However, as Mr W has had full use of the car I agree that it isnt reasonable for RCIFS to 
reimburse him any payments made under  the agreement. I also think  that although Mr W 
has been caused some  inconvenience in having  to complain  about not being told about  the 
MOT issue that this isnt enough  to merit  compensation.  He has been able to make use of 
the car while this matter  has been ongoing. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mr Ws complaint and Im asking RCI Financial 
Services Limited to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr W.
Reimburse Mr W a total of £1,100  that he paid as a deposit together  with interest at 
the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr W £199 for the paint  protection that was added to the cost of the car 
together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple  from the date of payment  until 
the date of settlement.
Adjust Mr Ws credit file to remove this agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0157274