K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva) surrendered  his 
endowment policy incorrectly  and paid the proceeds  to an unknown  third party.
background
In February 2018  Mr H found a policy document within his own paperwork which was for an 
endowment policy where  he was named  as the life assured.  He has said that until that point 
in time he was unaware the policy existed. Since making the complaint Mr H has said he 
never paid the premiums  on the policy. Hes not totally sure who took out the policy  for him, 
but he thinks it was taken as a present  for him and was intended as a nest egg for the future.  
When Mr H contacted Aviva as the policy provider he was told the policy  had been 
surrendered and paid out on 1 March 1992.  Aviva also explained that it wasnt able to 
identify to whom the payment was made because of how long ago the policy had ended it no 
longer holds any of this information.
Mr H was of the view that as he still held the original policy document Aviva  acted on 
incorrect instructions and didnt carry out the necessary checks  to ensure it was acting on 
the instructions  of the correct person. 
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. He felt it was reasonable that Aviva no longer held the information regarding the 
surrender of the policy. So in light of this, he was unable to say with any certainty  that Aviva  
had done anything wrong when it surrendered  the policy in 1992.
Mr H didnt agree with the assessment  and remained of the view Aviva had incorrectly  paid 
out the policy and had failed to carry out the proper due diligence.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A situation such as this is made difficult by the fact the policy was surrendered such a long 
time ago, over twenty years.  So its always  going to be hard to know exactly  what happened 
at the point in question. In making this decision therefore, given the circumstances, I have 
considered all the evidence and arguments presented to me and have made my decision  
based on what I think is more likely  to happen.
I appreciate Mr Hs frustration but having looked  at everything there isnt enough for me to 
safely conclude Aviva incorrectly surrendered policy.
Its worth  noting that there is no need to have the original policy  document to surrender this 
type pf policy. Normally  in these circumstances a lost policy  form can be used to surrender  
the policy or a statutory  declaration, as is the case here. I would say one of the main reasons 
for this is that these  types of policies were designed  to stay in place for a long time and 
businesses are fully aware that original documents could be lost by policy holders over such  
long time periods.
Ref: DRN08578542Very little information has been provided by Aviva  but this isnt unusual  given the time 
frames involved.  However, I have  seen a printout of Avivas internal screen notes recorded 
at the time of surrender.  These details are brief but it does record the surrender date of the 
policy and the amount  to be paid. It also states that a statutory declaration was received in 
lieu of the policy document.  In light of this, I cant say Aviva conducted the incorrect  
processes to authorise the surrender.
Mr H has said the policy could have  been bought for him by a family. The three people  Mr H 
thinks it could have  been have all passed away so its possible that the surrender of the 
policy could have happened in relation to the estate of the benefactor being decided. This 
would also explain how the policy  could  be surrendered with a statutory declaration rather  
than the original policy document. 
I did ask Aviva what its process would have  been  in 1992 that would enable the surrender 
without the original policy document. All it can confirm  is that the surrendering party  wouldve 
had to sign a waiver in relation to the policy and that this wouldve been enough at the time. 
It couldnt say whether  it would have had to see ID, paperwork or anything  else. Given  this, I 
think when Aviva surrendered the policy on the basis of the statutory declaration it acted 
within its processes at the time.
Overall, therefore, in light of what I said I have  said I cant safely conclude  Aviva incorrectly  
surrendered this policy. And while I appreciate  Mr Hs points I think the statutory declaration 
acted as the authorising document for the surrender. So I cant  say Aviva  didnt carry out the 
proper and necessary  due diligence  before  surrendering the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0857854