K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that AFX Markets Limited  unfairly  voided a number of Contracts for 
Differences (CFDs) he had made money  on and deprived him of the profits.
background
Mr P had a CFD trading account with AFX Markets  Limited. On 23 May 2018 he opened  9 
short CFDs on the EUR/TRY (Euro   Turkish Lira) currency pair. These trades  were  all 
opened between  19:07:14 and 19:07:21. They were  all for 0.15 lots and were  all opened  at 
the same  price of 5.60566. 
Mr P kept these trades  open  until 19:23, at which point he proceeded to close  each trade 
individually between  19:23:21 and 19:23:29. In total,  Mr P made over £3,900 from these 9 
trades. 
AFX explained that at the time Mr P opened  his trades, it was experiencing a problem with 
the prices it was streaming on EUR/TRY. In short, the prices werent updating for a period of 
time, and this meant that Mr Ps winnings werent  based on legitimate prices   in other 
words, not based  on a fair reflection of the price of the underlying currency pair. So it voided 
the trades and cancelled  the profits. 
Mr P complained. He considered that AFXs  decision was unfair.  He said that he had been  
trading with another broker who honoured the prices it offered him. So he thought AFX 
should reprice his voided trades, and pay him the profit he wouldve made.  
AFX declined to adjust  Mr Ps trades.  It said:
On 23 May 2018, the Turkish Central Banks announcement that it was raising its 
lending rates had a significant impact on the value of the Turkish lira. 
Its terms explained that during market conditions which it considered to amount to a 
Force Majeure, the execution of trades might be affected.  
It also said that clause  22.5 of its terms explained that it didnt permit  customers  
taking advantage of low liquidity conditions and that this was considered to be 
abuse or manipulation of [its] trading platform.
It accepted that there had been an error  on its platform which  meant that it 
experienced a price  freeze. Given the prices in the rest of the market,  this was a 
clear technical issue.  AFX explained that clause  5.13 said:
The parties acknowledge that errors  may occur in the Prices quoted by AFX Capital 
Markets Ltd to AFX UK due to internet connectivity  failures or delays, price  feed 
mistakes or otherwise resulting in quoted Prices materially deviating from market 
rates. In such circumstances, without  prejudice  to any rights  either  AFX Capital  
Markets Ltd or the Client may have under common law, neither the Client nor AFX 
Capital Markets Ltd will be bound  by any Contract  which purports to have been made 
(whether or not confirmed  by AFX Capital Markets Ltd) at a Price which was, or 
ought reasonably  to have been,  known to the client or AFX Capital Markets  Ltd to be 
materially incorrect at the time the Contract was entered into.
AFX therefore explained as a result of the error, clause 5.17 of its terms applied:
Ref: DRN05692682AFX UK also reserves the right at its sole and absolute  discretion, to take all 
necessary steps  including making corrections or adjustments on the Clients  account  
without prior notice, for example, any Transaction placed through the System  which  
relies on price latency or an arbitrage opportunity may be modified, adjusted, 
corrected, rejected, terminated or voided  at any time. In addition, where such  
circumstances exist,  the Client understands and agrees  that AFX shall not remit 
payments to or process withdrawal requests  from the Client, until the appropriate 
corrections are made to the satisfaction  of AFX UK. When determining  whether a 
situation amounts  to an Abusive Trading  Strategy, AFX UK may take into 
consideration all information in its possession  including information concerning 
relevant market conditions and errors in the System. 
And it said that where a client took advantage of such errors those actions amounted 
to arbitrage. Its terms allowed AFX to void, close or adjust  trades entered into in such  
circumstances. 
It also said that the prices which it quoted at the time amounted to a Manifest  Error 
as defined in its terms, and this meant that it had the right to void or cancel the 
trades. 
Mr P didnt agree with AFX, and brought his complaint to this service. He said that at the 
time he was trading to take advantage  of the announcement by the Turkish Central Bank, 
and he was trading  with other brokers who honoured the prices they gave him.
I issued a provisional decision in February  2019. In short, I thought  that the prices which 
AFX provided on its platform were, on balance,  manifestly wrong. I said that it would be 
unusual for a currency pair to have the same  bid or ask price  for such  a period of time, and 
the evidence Id seen in the underlying market suggested that the prices were significantly 
lower than those quoted  by AFX at the time anyway. So, bearing in mind the Turkish liras 
volatility at the time, I was provisionally  satisfied that it was more  likely than not that the 
prices remained the same  as a result of a technical  error on AFXs platform. 
I considered whether AFX acted  fairly  when it decided to void Mr Ps trades and cancel his 
profits, bearing in mind that the terms gave it discretion as to what actions to take. In looking  
at the trades Mr P placed, I provisionally concluded that it was more likely  than not that Mr P 
knew there was something wrong  with AFXs platform. And I thought that as a result,  he not 
only knew that AFXs platform wasnt updating its prices, but he could also see that the price 
AFX was offering was not reflective of the underlying market.  This meant  that Mr P had 
made an instantaneous profit of over 370 pips without taking any risk at all. I provisionally 
concluded that in opening trades  on what was clearly an incorrect  price, Mr P wasnt  taking 
any risk with these trades. I thought this meant  he probably gained an unfair  advantage 
which significantly altered  the risk-reward balance in his favour.  So I didnt think AFX had 
done anything  wrong in voiding the relevant trades.  
Mr P didnt agree with my provisional conclusions. He acknowledged that it was unusual  for 
prices not to update. But he said it is possible, and can happen in particular during chaotic 
market moments. He said that where there  was a lack of liquidity, spreads increase and the 
price could stay the same  for longer periods. 
And he said that the trading pattern of opening  a small trade followed by larger  trades was 
something that he had done previously, and wasnt specific  to this incident.  He said that this 
wasnt the first time he had done this, and shows that this type of trading pattern wasnt in 
response to the any issue the broker may or may not have been having. He said that the 
Ref: DRN05692683reason he had done this was to test trade  execution as the quoted prices can be totally  
different from execution pricing. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional conclusions. 
I appreciate the points  Mr P has made, and I agree there may be occasions where volatility 
in the underlying market might cause spreads to widen in unusual ways.  Ive also considered  
the statement  he has provided which shows that he has on other occasions opened a small 
trade shortly before opening a much  larger one. But I dont  consider  either of these  points 
makes a material difference  to the reasonableness of AFXs decision to void Mr Ps trades.  
In the particular circumstances of Mr Ps complaint, Im satisfied that AFXs platform  was 
experiencing a problem  which not only caused  the bid/offer prices it was offering for 
EUR/TRY not to update, but also froze them  at levels which were clearly not reflective of the 
underlying market. Clause 5.13 of its terms provide for this situation, and allows  it to take a 
number of actions,  of which voiding the trades was one. So Im satisfied it didnt act outside  
the terms of its agreement. 
But Im also satisfied that it applied this particular  term fairly and reasonably in Mr Ps case. I 
say this because  Im satisfied that Mr P was most  likely aware that AFXs website was 
experiencing an issue, either by virtue of the significant difference in prices being offered, or 
as a result  of the prices not moving at all. This means that in trading on prices  which  were 
clearly much  higher  than the underlying market, and werent moving, Mr P had virtually  
immediately secured a very significant profit with little to no risk. 
So for these reasons and those in my provisional decision, Im persuaded it was fair and 
reasonable for AFX to void the trades as if they had never been  placed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0569268