K821x#15complaint
Miss C is unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has handled an 
insurance claim she made under her home insurance policy. 
background
Miss C has her buildings  and contents insurance  with RSA. In August 2018 there was an 
escape of water from her upstairs bathroom through the living room ceiling. Damage was 
caused to the ceiling and the furniture and carpet  below. 
Miss C made a claim  under her insurance  policy which was accepted by RSA. However, 
shes unhappy with the amount of time it took to complete repairs, how she had been spoken 
to by contractors and members of staff, the settlement  offer made by RSA and that 
appointments werent kept which resulted in days off work and lost wages. 
RSA upheld her complaint  in part. It didnt agree there had been any unnecessary delays but 
did accept that communication  with it hadnt gone  as it should. So it paid her £75 
compensation. Miss C didnt think that was enough so asked us to look into her complaint.  
Our investigator didnt  think the compensation offered was sufficient. Although  she didnt find 
RSA was responsible  for any delays in carrying out repairs, she did think  that aspects of the 
claim could  have been handled better  for example, clear records about who cut away  part 
of the carpet and why. And she noted  that it wasnt  for several months  after repairs had been  
completed that RSA made a final settlement offer for the damaged furniture. So she asked 
RSA to increase  the compensation to £200 in total.  
RSA sent Miss C a cheque for the additional  compensation  which has been  cashed. But 
Miss C told us she doesnt agree with the outcome. She feels  the questions and comments  
from the loss assessor were inappropriate and discriminatory; she was told the settlement 
figure offered initially was based on her post code. And although she left him numerous 
messages, her calls werent  returned.  She also accepts  that some  inconvenience is 
unavoidable but on two occasions tradesmen  didnt turn up. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to broadly 
the same  conclusions as the investigators. 
RSA accepted Miss Cs claim and that has been settled. My consideration is in relation to 
how RSA handled  the claim and whether the compensation it has now paid is sufficient for 
any distress and or inconvenience caused.  The very nature of making  a claim for such an 
event is distressing itself,  and when considering this I need to separate out the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the escape of water  and that caused  by RSA. I wouldnt make  an 
award simply because needed repairs take time.  But I would if I felt RSA caused  
unnecessary or avoidable delays.
Im satisfied from the information  provided that the damage was assessed quickly and there  
were no avoidable  delays in carrying out repairs. But like the investigator I find there were 
some delays in reaching a final settlement  amount. In part that had been  caused by the 
parties not knowing who or why certain  actions  had been taken  such as cutting away  the 
Ref: DRN07026952carpet. And there was a lot of discussion about the value of Miss Cs sofa,  such that 
settlement wasnt reached for many months. 
It is usual practice for an insurer to ask its policyholders to validate  claims, by providing  
receipts or other proof of purchase. And as RSA pointed out, this is a condition  within  the 
policy itself. But I would  expect such requests  to be reasonable.  Here the sofas  had been  
purchased many years before, so such evidence was unlikely to be available. And I think 
RSA could have  reached a valuation on the damaged sofa sooner than it did. 
I know Miss C is disappointed two appointments were missed  that she had taken time off 
work for. And I disagree this expressly  needs  to be provided for in the policy for RSA to 
cover unnecessary days off work if it had done something wrong. But I also need to consider 
the supplier is a third party, separate from RSA.  And RSA has no control  over when and how 
a supplier will be available.  
I have considered Miss Cs concerns about  the loss assessor.  I agree  with our investigator 
that questions  about who lives in the property are right questions for an assessor to be 
asking. The response might impact how the claim is progressed  for example, if there  is a 
vulnerable person, or very young  children, living in the property. But Im unsure about  the 
loss assessors comments about the settlement figure and it being  based on post codes, as I 
have never  come across  this before. Clearly this wasnt correct as the settlement was far 
higher. And it is never good  customer  service for calls not to be returned. 
RSA accepts Miss C received poor customer service from its own staff when  she was 
accused of using offensive language when she hadnt. And I can understand how this must 
have been upsetting. Taking all of this into account Miss C has been  caused some distress  
and inconvenience  by how this claim was handled  and I dont think  the £75 initially paid by 
RSA was reflective of that. I agree with our investigator that £200  is fair for the impact this 
had. 
As RSA has already  sent Miss C the additional £125  and that has been cashed, it need to do 
nothing further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im satisfied Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has now fairly  
settled this complaint  and I dont require it to do anymore. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0702695