K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs K say The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Britannia  (Britannia) mis-
sold them  the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why
Mr and Mrs K bought this PPI on the telephone and say they were not aware the PPI was 
optional and felt the sales advisors  sold it to them as they were  incentivised  to do so. 
Britannia says it wouldve  made the optional nature of the PPI clear, and sought  their 
consent before adding  it to their account.  Britannia no longer  has a recording of the call from 
the time of sale, but given how long ago the policy was sold, thats not unreasonable. But 
where I have limited information about  a sale, I have  to decide what  I think is more likely 
based on the evidence that is available  this includes Mr and Mrs Ks testimony as well the 
documentary evidence  still retained. 
Mr and Mrs K feel they were treated unfairly  because Britannia used phrases such as 
Peace of Mind" and "Should  the Worst  Happen  in its literature to influence their decision. 
They also feel the sales advisors promoted the PPI. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs K have  said but I have to bear in mind  that this sale 
happened over 20 years ago now and even  the best of memories  can fade over that time 
frame. So while Ive thought carefully about  what Mr and Mrs K has said,  I dont think itd be 
reasonable to uphold  a complaint  solely  based on recollections from 20 years  ago. So Ive 
also taken into consideration the documents that are available  in addition to their testimony. 
Britannia has sent in a copy of Mr and Mrs K mortgage application which  had a separate  
section for PPI. In it, there were Yes/No  boxes for customers to tick to either  decline  or 
request PPI cover. On their form the Yes box has been ticked  but as there was a No box 
available, it looks like customers were given a choice to decline  cover.  And although I dont  
know what was discussed during  the telephone call, Ive seen a copy  of the PPI application  
form that was subsequently  sent to them to complete  and sign.  They  selected  full cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment for Mr K only and signed the form to confirm  their 
selections. Ive also seen a welcome letter sent to Mr and Mrs K setting out the cost of the 
accident and sickness element of the policy, and an explanation that the unemployment 
element was free for 12 months. 
While I think its possible that Britannia  may have encouraged Mr and Mrs K to buy the PPI, 
it was able to do this and ultimately Im satisfied they were given a choice to either add or 
decline PPI. Based on what Ive seen,  whilst  I appreciate  Mr and Mrs Ks strength of feeling 
regarding this matter,  I think  its more likely Britannia  made it clear they didnt have to take 
out the PPI and they chose to take it out to cover Mr K only.  
Ref: DRN06702802Britannia says it didnt recommend the policy whereas Mr and Mrs K are adamant that it did. 
In order for Britannia to have recommended a policy, it wouldve had to have assessed  their 
individual circumstances  to check the policy was right for them and then make a tailored 
recommendation. I havent seen any evidence that this took place. Mr and Mrs K have also 
explicitly said there was no discussion about the appropriateness of the policy and at no time 
did Britannia consider their employment  status or conditions in relation to the policy.  This 
also indicates that this policy was not sold on a recommended  basis.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs K feel Britannia  shouldve done such as an assessment, but it was 
under no obligation to do so, as it was, and still is, permitted to sell PPI on a non-advised 
basis. So I dont think the policy  was recommended. But while this means it didnt have to 
check the policy was right for them, it did have to provide them with clear information  and 
then it was up to them  to either accept or decline PPI, bearing in mind their wider  financial 
circumstances.
Its possible the information Britannia  gave  Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. Mr K (the policy holder) was eligible for the policy  and it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so the PPI would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  
I understand Mr K was employed so he had employee benefits  like sick pay. He also felt he 
was in secure employment  with no risk of redundancy. He adds that he wouldve had other 
means available to him such as savings although  he hasnt provided any details about  this or 
evidence  but given the time thats passed  since the policy  was sold, I dont think thats 
unreasonable. In any event, I believe  he wouldve had some other means  available.  
But Mr and Mrs K paid for the PPI premiums via direct debit and Ive also previously 
mentioned the welcome letter they were  sent which set out the cost. Their  PPI application 
form also asked them for the net monthly  mortgage  repayment which  they completed and 
also requested whether  they wanted any additional  benefit amounts  which was left blank.  
So I think its likely they would have  broadly  understood how much  the policy cost and what  
it wouldve  paid out if they needed to make a claim.  It was then up to Mr and Mrs K to decide 
whether they still wanted the PPI bearing  in mind  the other means  available to them. 
I would also add that while Mr K may have felt his job was secure, insurance is taken out to 
protect against the unexpected. And this policy wouldve  paid out on top of his sick pay for 
potentially longer than his full sick pay wouldve lasted  if he was off work because of 
accident and sickness. It also provided  cover  for unemployment. I understand Mr and Mrs K 
dont believe  it wouldve paid out alongside  Mr Ks sick pay but we have sent him a copy  of 
the policy terms that applied at the time they took it, and there are no provisions  in the policy  
for the insurer to make  deductions for any sick pay he mightve  got from his employer. 
And having the policy allowed them to use any other  means they had such  as Mr Ks sick 
pay and savings for other essential expenditure  at what couldve been a difficult time 
financially. Overall, based on what Ive seen, I dont think better information about  the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Mr and Mrs K have  also mentioned they had a complaint  about  another policy upheld by a 
different business.  But each  case is decided  on the individual merits of that case  and I 
dont think having  a complaint upheld elsewhere means  this policy  was also mis-sold. For 
the reason Ive explained above, I dont think their PPI policy with the Britannia was mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN06702803Which means Britannia doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K.
But Britannia  has paid back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K because:  
Britannia got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs K about that. Because Britannia didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Britannia has paid back the amount of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0670280