K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that a car he has been  financing through  an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers) has not been of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr W took receipt of a used car in October  2017. He financed  the deal through  a conditional 
sale agreement with Close Brothers.  At the point of supply  the car had already completed  
133,508 miles and was about  nine years old.
Mr W had the car repaired in January 2018. A gearbox heat shield had fallen off and there 
was a whining  noise.  In April 2018  Mr W returned the car to the dealership as there was still 
a whining  noise. An independent inspection was arranged. The engineer said that a fault 
with the gearbox  was causing a substantial jolt when engaging reverse;  a lesser jolt when 
engaging drive and that there  was substantial vibration when driving  the car. He said that the 
transmission was sporadic and incorrect and he suggested that the fault was most probably 
present at the point of supply.
The car was booked in for repair in June 2018 and the garage identified a fault with the 
engine mounts. But at that time another problem was identified. The steering lock had 
broken and was repaired  but the original  problem wasnt rectified.
Mr W told Close Brothers he wanted to reject the car.
But Close Brothers  didnt  allow  him to reject  the vehicle. Instead, in September  2019, Mr W 
part exchanged the car and the proceeds  were used  to part settle  his account after Close  
Brothers had reduced the settlement figure  by £600. They  said this was the cost of the repair  
they would  have had to complete. 
Mr W referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator provided  her view. She noted 
that thered been at least two failed  attempts to repair the vehicle and she thought Close  
Brothers should therefore have allowed Mr W to reject the car when hed asked to. She 
thought they should  therefore refund the final settlement fee less the amount Mr W had 
achieved when selling his vehicle. She calculated this to be £1,460.05. She also thought
they should pay him £300 to compensate him for the upset hed been caused and the lack of 
enjoyment hed experienced.
But Close Brothers  disagreed. They said that when Mr W complained to them he wanted  the 
vehicle repairing. They said that any loss in value hed experienced when he subsequently 
sold the car was not of their making but that they had refunded the cost of the repair  they 
would have completed had they been given a chance to. They  therefore  asked  for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Close Brothers  so please let 
me explain why.
Ref: DRN07200392Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a conditional  sale agreement.  This is a regulated consumer  
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Close Brother, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory taking into account  any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr W. The car here 
was around nine years old and had travelled over 133,000 miles at the point of supply. But I 
dont think a reasonable person would  expect to have persistent problems with a car, even of 
this age and mileage that meant there were substantial vibrations and difficulty engaging  
gears. 
Close Brothers have endeavoured to repair the fault and their decision to accept  
responsibility stemmed from the independent inspectors report which  suggested the fault 
was developing  at the point of supply.
I therefore think its reasonable  to suggest,  on balance, that there was a fault with the car at 
the point of supply and that Close Brothers  needed  to put things  right.
The relevant  legislation  allows Close Brothers one opportunity to repair  the vehicle but if that 
repair is unsuccessful they should allow a consumer to reject the car. I can see that this car 
was repaired on at least two occasions  (Mr W would suggest  it was significantly more) but 
the fault wasnt rectified. 
I think its therefore reasonable  to suggest  that Close Brothers  should  have  explained to 
Mr W that he did therefore have  a right to reject the vehicle and to have given him an 
opportunity to make an informed decision to get it repaired or to reject  it. 
I dont think its fair to expect Mr W to necessarily know his rights  and I dont think it would be 
reasonable in these  circumstances to suggest hed accepted a repair. It appears to me that 
he simply accepted their guidance. Ive seen an email from him to the business on 23 May in 
which he asks to return the car but Close Brothers didnt allow him to. I think  its likely that if 
he was better informed he would have insisted  on rejection rather than accept, somewhat 
reluctantly from the email  trail, an eventual repair.
Im supported in this view because he later chose to part exchange the car despite the 
adverse financial  impact it would have  on him. This was in September, many  months  after 
Close Brothers had first been given an opportunity to repair  the car. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Mr W to take this action at this point. Hed been  waiting a long time to have 
Ref: DRN07200393the problem rectified.  I think its fair to say that any loss in value could have  been  mitigated 
by Close  Brothers had they been  willing to settle matters earlier.
If Close Brothers had allowed Mr W to reject his car instead of part exchanging, I would have 
asked them to terminate  his finance  agreement; refund his deposit;  remove any record of the 
agreement from his credit file and refund a portion of the monthly instalments he had paid to 
reflect the loss of use, loss of enjoyment  he had experienced.
However, the car has now been sold and the finance settled. So I would agree with the 
adjudicator that the most practicable and reasonable way to settle matters is for Close 
Brothers to refund  the difference  between  what Mr W sold the car for and what he had to pay 
them to settle  the finance agreement. I dont  think its necessary for him to return  the 
discounted repair cost as the cost would always have been  something Close  Brothers would 
have had to contend with; whether it was in a reduced sale price or a repair  bill before sale.
I think Close Brothers should also compensate Mr W for the loss of enjoyment and loss of 
use hes had from the car as a result of the faults  hes experienced and the failed repairs that 
have been carried  out. In the circumstances I would agree  with the adjudicator that £300 is 
fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Close Brothers limited to:
refund  the final settlement fee of £4,560.05 less the price the car was sold for of 
£3,100. They should add 8% simple interest  to this payment  from the date the final 
settlement fee was paid to the date this complaint  is settled;
pay £300 to Mr W to compensate him for the distress, inconvenience and loss of 
enjoyment hes experienced
amend Mr Ws credit  file showing this agreement as settled and remove any adverse 
records that may have  been  made  to it with respect  to the concerns raised in this 
complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0720039