K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave them the wrong  information  when  they 
took out a personal loan.
background
In February 2018  Mr and Mrs A applied for an HSBC loan. The interest  rate was high but 
they told us HSBC said they could go back to their local branch after four to six months to 
see if the rate could  be reduced.  They have since discovered this couldnt happen.
HSBC said it hadnt done anything wrong.  It explained a personal loan is an agreement  to 
pay a fixed amount over a fixed period  of time.  So the interest  rate wasnt  negotiable.  When 
Mr and Mrs A contacted the bank in July 2018  it referred them to its Financial Guidance 
Team to assist them  if they were  struggling financially. And it refunded  £75 of charges. In 
August 2018 Mr and Mrs A contacted  the bank again. It put an arrangement in place for 
three months but they refused this and the bank says theyve continued to make  the monthly 
repayments in full. HSBC refunded a further £80 charges as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the bank should  do anything else to resolve 
Mr and Mrs As complaint. She didnt think the loan information the bank gave to 
Mr and Mrs A created any expectation  the interest rate could be decreased at a later date. 
Mr and Mrs A werent happy  with this and said they thought it could be a case  of 
irresponsible lending.  And they have  been  told the meeting in the bank wouldve been 
recorded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs A say the bank told them the interest rate on the loan could be reduced at a later 
date. The bank says the loan agreement  they signed was for a fixed  amount and for a fixed  
period. This was a discussion that took place in the local branch and HSBC has confirmed 
the conversation  wouldnt  have been  recorded. In these circumstances I have to decide what  
is most  likely  to have happened at the time Mr and Mrs A took out this loan. 
All the documentation  from the loan agreement that Mr and Mrs A signed  gives the fixed  
monthly repayments over the length  of the loan. There is nothing to suggest the interest  rate 
could be renegotiated at a later date.  I accept Mr and Mrs A genuinely thought  this might be 
an option but I dont have  sufficient evidence to come to the conclusion  the bank  was 
responsible for making them think the rate could be reduced  after a few months.
Mr and Mrs A have  asked if the bank  was irresponsible  in giving them  this loan. I have  
considered both whether the bank  was irresponsible and whether the loan was unaffordable 
at the time the bank gave  it to them. And Ive also considered if it responded positively and 
sympathetically when  it became aware the monthly  repayments were a concern to 
Mr and Mrs A.
Ref: DRN09029242If a loan is unaffordable it means  that the customer  couldnt afford  to make the repayments 
at the time he or she took the loan out. The affordability checks  a lender should  carry out 
should be proportionate to the size of the loan and the cost of repayment. From the 
information it had at the time HSBC thought it was affordable  and so offered it to 
Mr and Mrs A. We cant say that a lender shouldve done any particular  check. But it seems 
to me that HSBC  reasonably assessed  their ability to make the required monthly 
repayments. So I cant find it was wrong for it to agree to their loan application. 
I have also considered whether it was irresponsible for the bank to have given Mr and Mrs A 
this loan. Irresponsible  lending is not just about  whether they could afford to repay the loan 
or not  its whether theres another reason they shouldnt have had the credit. This will 
depend on their personal circumstances. And it could be irresponsible to lend money  to 
someone who is in a debt spiral because they are borrowing money to repay other loans. 
But as Ive already said,  HSBC carried out all the checks we would expect and these 
showed they could afford  to meet the monthly repayments. And I cant see there was 
anything in their account  history that wouldve concerned the bank. 
 
A bank  has a responsibility for responding positively and sympathetically when it knows a 
customer could be in financial  difficulties.  I can see that its offered a three month 
arrangement to Mr and Mrs A which they refused. And its refunded some of the charges. I 
cant fairly ask it to do more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0902924