K821x#15Complaint
Mr M has complained that he was pressured  by Capital Professional Limited (CPL) to 
accept its pension transfer advice in order to secure the transfer  value of his occupational 
pension scheme  (OPS)  benefits.
Background
In October  2016 CPL gave Mr M pension transfer advice. CPL recommended  he transfer the 
value of his OPS benefits to a personal pension with Fidelity. It recommended  he invest 60% 
of his funds in an active portfolio and 40% of his funds in a passive portfolio in accordance 
with his low-medium attitude  to risk. Mr M would  pay an ongoing fee of 1% to CPL.
Mr M didnt  proceed with the advice at the time,  but paid £1,800 to CPL for providing the 
report. However, in March  2017  Mr M decided to proceed with the recommendation, paying 
a further fee of £6,500  to implement the advice  and carry  out the pension  transfer.  In 
April 2017 an agreement  was reached for Mr M to be moved on to CPLs transaction  only 
service for an ongoing fee of 0.5% instead of the 1% hed been quoted.
Mr M complained in April 2018 that he hadnt  received  the service  provided in return for the 
0.5% fee. He asked  for it to be refunded.  He later added that hed felt pressured  to accept 
CPLs recommendation  in order for his pension  transfer to go ahead before the guaranteed 
value of his OPS benefits expired. Mr M said hed tried to transfer his benefits through 
another provider,  H, in 2016 and his former employer had asked CPL to sign a form to say 
advice had been given, but CPL refused. For this reason, he said he had no other choice but 
to accept CPLs recommendations in full.
CPL didnt agree it had done anything wrong.  It said Mr M had accepted its 
recommendations and the fee had been  charged  on that basis. It also said it had provided  
the transaction only service to Mr M, which didnt include further financial advice.
Mr M remained unhappy and referred his complaint  to our service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. He thought it was unreasonable  for CPL to 
refuse to sign the document required by Mr Ms former employer to say advice had been 
provided. The investigator was satisfied Mr M wouldve proceeded with the transfer of his 
pension to H if CPL had signed  it. This was because  Mr M had since  transferred his funds to 
H. The investigator recommended  CPL should return the £6,500 fee it had taken to complete 
the transfer and set up the investments. He wasnt persuaded that CPL should refund any 
ongoing charges as Mr M had agreed to the transaction only service and CPL had provided  
this service during  the time that he was their customer. The investigator also recommended 
CPL pay Mr M £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
CPL didnt agree, saying  it was responsible not only for the advice but the ongoing suitability  
of the advice. So, it wouldnt have been  appropriate  for it to sign off the transfer of Mr Ms 
OPS benefits.
Mr M also didnt  agree.  He felt the ongoing adviser charge should be refunded  as he 
wouldnt have had to pay it all if CPL had signed  the form when asked.
Ref: DRN04856782My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it in part 
for largely  the same reasons as the investigator.
CPL argues  that it wouldnt have been  appropriate for its adviser to sign the form Mr Ms 
former employer required  in order for his pension transfer to proceed. It says this is because  
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  had recently issued a directive saying that it was 
responsible for the suitability of the advice as well as the suitability of any ongoing advice. 
CPL hasnt said what FCA directive it is referring  to here specifically, but Ive considered  the 
relevant regulations and guidance  provided  to firms when giving pension  transfer advice.
CPL says it wouldnt have  been appropriate  for it to sign  off the transfer of Mr Ms pension 
benefits. But this isnt what Mr Ms employers form asked it to do. Instead,  it asked  CPL to 
sign a document  confirming that:
A.Advice has been provided  which is specific to the type of transaction  proposed  by the 
member (or survivor,  if relevant),  namely  a transfer payment,  conversion  of benefits 
or payment of a lump  sum to which section 4'8(1) of the Pension Schemes Act 2015  
applies, and
B.The adviser has permission under  Part 4A of the Financial Services  and Markets Act 
2000, or permission  resulting from any other provision  of that Act, to carry on the 
regulated activity in article  53E of the Regulated  Activities Order {Advising on 
conversion or transfer of pension benefits}.
So, all that was required of CPL was to confirm  that advice had been given to Mr M about his 
pension transfer,  which it had. The form didnt require CPL to comment on whether or not its 
advice was being followed. But CPL could have offered this information to Mr Ms employer if 
it felt this was necessary.  In any event, all Mr Ms employer needed to know was that advice 
had been provided to Mr M. As Mr M wasnt following  CPLs  advice, I dont  think signing the 
form posed any risk to it in terms of the overall transfer of Mr Ms OPS benefits  it wouldnt 
have been carrying  out the transfer for Mr M.
I dont think it was fair or reasonable for CPL to refuse to do this, particularly given Mr M had 
paid it a substantial  fee for the advice  despite  not following it. Had CPL signed the form for 
Mr M, Im satisfied  his former employer wouldve allowed him to transfer his OPS  benefits to 
H. And Mr M wouldnt  have incurred a further advice fee.
It follows that CPL should refund the £6,500  Mr M paid to implement its recommendations as 
this fee wouldnt  have been  payable  if CPL had treated him fairly.
The investigator recommended  that CPL should  pay Mr M £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused by its refusal to sign the form to say advice had been  provided. Having considered  
the impact of what happened, I think this sum is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I say this because  it caused  Mr M stress  the matter was time-sensitive and CPLs actions 
meant that it took longer  for Mr Ms OPS  benefits  to be transferred, risking  the possibility of 
the transfer value expiring.
Ref: DRN04856783Mr M argues that the ongoing fees he paid to CPL during the time his pension funds were  
under its control  should be refunded. He says the original  agreement  was for him to pay 1% 
for an ongoing financial planning  service.  He says the agreement  he signed said this could 
be cancelled  at any time and this was what he had asked for. Instead he was told he had to 
pay 0.5% for CPLs  transaction only service. And in any event,  he says he wouldnt have had 
to pay these fees at all but for CPLs refusal to sign the form to allow  the transfer to take 
place initially.
Ive considered this carefully but Im not asking  CPL to refund these fees. I understand why 
Mr M felt he needed to accept CPLs  original recommendation  in order  to ensure he didnt 
miss out on the guaranteed transfer value of his OPS benefits. But Mr M did have other 
options  he couldve  approached a new adviser to allow the transfer  to proceed, or he 
couldve negotiated  with CPL further  to reach a solution that was acceptable to him. Its likely 
both of these options  wouldve cost him more and he also wouldve most  likely needed  to 
pay for a new transfer value of his OPS benefits,  which was due to expire  in March 2017. 
But Mr M instead chose  to proceed  with CPLs recommendation in full.
Mr M says that he asked to cancel  the ongoing  financial  planning service, after agreeing to 
take it out in May 2016. I havent seen a request to cancel this service  before the transfer  
went ahead  in March  2017. But Ive seen  an email Mr M sent on 7 April 2017 in which he 
said he wanted to take advantage of the transaction only service for a fee of 0.5%.  In return  
for this fee, Mr M was provided  access to CPLs portal and he was still able to benefit  from 
the discretionary management element of the chosen fund manager. I can also see that CPL 
carried out Mr Ms instructions to disinvest some funds to the pension  cash  account  in light 
of falling markets  in June 2017. As Mr M had the benefit of CPLs transaction only service  
until he transferred his funds to H, I dont think I can fairly ask CPL to refund the fees 
associated with it. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint.
Capital Professional Limited should  refund the advice fee of £6,500 to Mr M and pay him 
£200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0485678