K821x#15Complaint
Miss B has complained  that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly continued  applying  charges 
to her overdraft when she was in financial  difficulty.
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 4 June 2021, which  forms part of this final decision. In my 
provisional decision, I set out why I was intending to uphold Miss Bs complaint and invited 
both parties to make any final comments ahead  of my final decision. 
Following this, Lloyds  confirmed that it accepted  my provisional decision and that it would 
pay redress to Miss B. 
Miss B also confirmed receiving my provisional  decision. She said that she accepted my 
provisional decision and she didnt provide anything further for me to think about. 
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties  for their responses and Im pleased to see that Lloyds has agreed to put 
things right for Miss B. I set out in some  detail why I intended to uphold Miss Bs complaint in 
my provisional decision. And, in the absence of anything further from either party,  I see no 
reason to change  my conclusions.
So having  carefully considered everything, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
Fair compensation  what  Lloyds  needs to do to put things  right for Miss  B.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Bs complaint for Lloyds to put things  right by:
Reworking Miss Bs current  overdraft balance  so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from August 2003 to August 2008 as well as all charges (not 
already refunded) applied from August 2015 onwards (as it has already agreed to 
do) are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Lloyds  should contact Miss B to arrange  a suitable repayment  plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate  to record  negative information on Miss Bs 
credit file, it should backdate this to August 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments  from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
Ref: DRN00214862outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information  from Miss Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 4 June 2021, Im upholding 
Miss Bs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should  put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN00214863COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Miss B has complained  that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  unfairly continued  applying charges to her 
overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
Background
Lloyds argued that Miss B complained about some  of the charges shes unhappy  about too late. An 
ombudsman concluded  that Lloyds  was correct and the we could  only look at a complaint  about the 
charges applied  between 2002 and August  2008 and then from    August 2012 onwards.
One of our adjudicators  then looked at Miss Bs complaint and thought that Lloyds should have 
realised that Miss B was experiencing financial  difficulty by August 2015  and so should refund  the 
fees from this point onwards. Lloyds agreed but Miss B disagreed. She didnt think that the charges 
between 2002 and 2008 had been properly considered  and asked for an ombudsman  to review her 
complaint.   
As the parties are in agreement  with the position regarding the charges applied  from       August 2012 
onwards, this provisional decision is primarily concerned  with the charges applied between 2002 and 
August 2008.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Lloyds will be familiar  with all the rules, regulations  and good industry  practice (in particular, the 
Banking Code Standards Boards Banking Code which the then Lloyds-TSB was a subscriber to) we 
consider when looking  at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary  to set all of this out in this provisional decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Lloyds needs to do a bit more to put things 
right for Miss B. I say this as I think Lloyds  also acted unfairly when it continued  charging overdraft 
interest and associated  fees after it renewed and increased Miss Bs overdraft in August 2003. 
By this point, Lloyds it ought to have been evident to Lloyds  that Miss B because her account 
statements show that items  were repeatedly  being returned unpaid due to lack of available funds. It 
was also evident  Miss Bs use of her overdraft  was unsustainable.  In these  circumstances, it ought to 
have been apparent that Miss B was unlikely  to repay what she owed  within a reasonable period of 
time with overdraft interest, fees and associated charges being added. 
So Lloyds should have stopped providing  the overdraft on the same terms and treated     Miss B with 
forbearance rather than adding even  more  fees and charges  on the overdraft .
All of this means that Lloyds should have realised that Miss B was experiencing  financial difficulty, 
wasnt using her overdraft  as intended and shouldnt have continued  offering it on the same terms in 
August 2003.  As Lloyds didnt react  to Miss Bs overdraft usage and instead continued  charging in the 
same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Miss B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft  at a time when she was 
already experiencing difficulty. So Im intending to say that Miss B lost out because  of what Lloyds did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Ref: DRN00214864Fair compensation   what Im intending to say Lloyds  needs to do to put things right  for Miss 
B.
Having thought about everything,  Im intending to issue  a final decision saying that it would be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Miss Bs complaint  for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from August 2003 to August  2008  as well as all charges (not already 
refunded) applied from August 2015 onwards (as it has already agreed to do) are 
removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains  on the overdraft  once these adjustments have  been 
made Lloyds  should  contact  Miss B to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for this. If it 
considers it appropriate  to record negative information on Miss Bs credit file, it should  
backdate this to August 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing  all interest, fees and charges  results  in there no longer being an 
outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to 
Miss B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were  
made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding  balance remains  after all 
adjustments have been made, then Lloyds should remove any adverse  information  from 
Miss Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest.  Lloyds must  give Miss B a 
certificate showing  how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold  Miss Bs complaint and tell Lloyds Bank PLC 
to put things  right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 18 June 2021 changes  my mind, thats what  Ill tell 
Lloyds to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0021486