K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that American Express Services Europe Limited wont  refund a payment 
made on her credit  card to a secondary ticket selling website (the Website) for some  
football tickets. 
background
In January 2019 two tickets were purchased through the Website  to attend  a football match 
using Miss Ds American Express credit card. Miss D bought  them for friends of hers so they 
could attend the match. The total cost charged  to her card initially  was just over £280. In 
March 2019 just under £10 was refunded to Miss Ds card due to an issue discovered 
around the currency conversion  applied to the transaction  to purchase the tickets.
But later Miss D said that her friends were refused entry to the football match and had to buy 
tickets on the gate to see the game.  So Miss D asked American Express  to help. 
American Express looked into the matter, but it didnt think it could help. This was because it 
didnt think it could  do a chargeback because  it didnt have a reasonable prospect of 
success. It also thought  a Section 75 claim should also be unsuccessful.
Miss D didnt think this was fair, so she brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator  
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think American Express had acted unfairly by 
declining Miss Ds request  for a refund. Miss D didnt agree. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D says she strongly believes this service  has little to zero understanding of the details
of the issue (which quite  frankly are very simple and straightforward). Ive considered what 
the investigator has said and the facts of the matter. I disagree  with Miss D. What has 
happened here and the matters at hand  are complex and I will explain why.
To be clear this complaint is about  American  Express, as Miss Ds credit  card account 
provider. Its not about  the secondary ticket  selling Website, which  isnt a financial service  
provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor is about the payment gateway  which  was 
used to facilitate  the transaction  to purchase the tickets. Nor is about the original purchaser 
of the tickets who then decided  to sell the tickets through the secondary ticket  selling 
Website (their name  appears on the tickets) which  Miss D then bought. 
As this complaint  is only about American Express Im only considering whether Miss D 
authorised American  Express to debit her account  with the value of the payment, and 
whether it should  have  helped with the dispute with the Website  in any other  way. I hope this 
is clear.
Miss D accepts she made this transaction  for these tickets, knew the amount she was 
paying and was willing to purchase  the tickets at that price. Only after the purchase, once 
she was on notice that some people had concerns about the Website did she speak to 
American Express. And it was only sometime after the football match occurred when  Miss D 
Ref: DRN06983592raised the issue of her friends being  refused entry  to the game and having to purchase 
further tickets to get into see the game.
But she did speak to American Express promptly after the transaction and this is where  the 
currency conversion issue came  to light. American Express  corrected this by refunding the 
currency difference to Miss D. So having considered what  Miss D has said (including that 
she made this purchase and paid for the tickets) and the evidence  of American Express, Im 
satisfied the transaction was properly authorised by Miss D and eventually correctly  applied 
to Miss Ds credit card account with American Express, once the refund had been made  to 
correct the currency  issue. 
could American Express  challenge the transaction through  a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Miss D 
does here,  American  Express (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through  a chargeback 
process.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where chargeback  has 
been successful.  But I should add that card providers and indeed merchants may decide to 
refund the cardholder  for a variety  of reasons including goodwill, commercial pragmatism 
and other  reasons along with the chargeback being successful through  the actual 
chargeback process.  So the cardholder receiving a refund doesnt  necessarily  mean that 
card issuers  should refund every transaction similar  to this one.
I dont think American Express couldve challenged the payment on the basis  Miss D didnt 
properly authorise  the transaction,  given  the conclusions on this issue  Ive already set out.
As far as Miss D is concerned the crux of the complaint is that the Website breached the 
contract she had with it in providing tickets as her friends werent able use the tickets to gain 
entry to the football match. But Miss D hasnt  provided any evidence  to support this other  
than copies of other  tickets she says were purchased so her friends  could go to the match. 
American Express s argument is that there  wasnt a reasonable prospect of success  in 
raising a chargeback. To decide this matter the test I must apply here is balance of 
probabilities or in other words  what do I think  was more  likely  to have happened.
Having considered the Website it is clearly  a secondary ticket selling Website. Im not 
persuaded the Website looks like its the football event organisers website. I think its clear  
the tickets are being purchased through the Website from a seller  (who is separate  to the 
website). 
American Express is required  to consider whether  there is a reasonable prospect of success  
when it is considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go 
through the process, then it must do so properly.  The Website would then receive  that 
chargeback request and may agree  to refund  the payment or may contest the chargeback. If 
it contests, then American Express should consider  this and then if it still feels the 
chargeback is warranted  then it can take the chargeback further and ultimately to the 
scheme provider (not American Express)  who will then make  an independent determination 
on the matter. So American Express isnt solely responsible for the decision whether to 
refund or not when going through  the chargeback process.
American Express has given the following reasons for not raising a chargeback  in this case. 
It notes that for the potential chargeback reasons applicable in this case  Miss D and then it 
Ref: DRN06983593should provide  evidence  to support the chargeback reason such as evidence the tickets 
werent genuine or that access to the event was refused.  I appreciate that providing 
evidence showing refusal of entry could be difficult. However it is of note that many venues  
now have processes in place  for dealing with tickets they wont  honour. This service has 
seen examples of letters  being issued by venues/events explaining  why ticket holders were  
not admitted.  
American Express also point out that although Miss D contacted  it on 17 January 2019 (the 
day after the football match) Miss D made  no mention of entry  being  denied to the game. 
Her complaint at that stage  was about what shed heard  about  the Website. American 
Express says that Miss D didnt mention that her friends had been refused entry until she 
spoke to it on 15 February 2019. American Express has also pointed  to the fact that within 
the ticket contract  it states the tickets are non-refundable.
Miss D has provided copies of her email contact with the Website  from the time. Its clear that 
the Website rejected  her claim  for a refund repeatedly and somewhat abruptly to my mind. 
Ive not seen any persuasive  evidence to suggest that the Website  was likely to change 
position or to refund  Miss D in the event  of it receiving a chargeback from American Express.
In short  Miss D says she wanted to buy the tickets at that price, authorised the transaction 
and got the tickets. There is a lack of evidence supporting the chargeback as American 
Express has described. Considering what it knew, all in all, I think  American Express  
decision that there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success  in going through  the chargeback 
process is fair and reasonable in my opinion. So I think Miss D hasnt lost out due to 
American Express position on this matter.  I think that even if it had gone through  the 
chargeback process  its likely that it would have been unsuccessful.
how about Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Miss Ds American  Express s credit card. Under section 75 
of this Act, in certain circumstances, she has an equal right to claim against  American  
Express as she does  against the supplier  (the Website) if theres been a breach of contract  
or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
For a valid claim  under  Section 75 there must  be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement  in 
place. The Websites terms and conditions say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange.  [Websites  name] provides a service that allows  members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites  
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers.
This satisfies me that the tickets arent  supplied by the Website. But that the Website  does 
provide a service.  And for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website  says 
it:
charges  a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed  in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service.
So in effect,  there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Miss D, American 
Express and the Website, albeit not for the direct provision  of the tickets themselves. 
Ref: DRN06983594Instead, the Website provides a service. The service  consists of two main  things - the 
platform and the guarantee. So I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information 
(such as venue, date,  time, seat location and the asking  price) is displayed to buyers. And I 
think, under  the guarantee, its responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund if 
the seller doesnt  fulfil their obligations around supplying  the tickets.   
American Express says the required relationship isnt in place because a payment gateway  
was used to facilitate the transaction.  But I dont think  the payment gateway  was a party to 
the contractual relationship. So considering this and what  we know happened here I dont 
think the presence of a payment gateway  breaks the chain between debtor-creditor-supplier.  
Another condition  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided 
by the Website must have  a cash price of more  than £100. Ive seen a screenshot  of the 
transaction with the Website.  Its clear  each ticket is purchased  for £99 and as we know the 
amount Miss D paid (considering the currency refund) it is clear  that the cash  price Miss D 
paid for the service  provided by the Website is less than a hundred  pounds. So I dont think 
this case meets the required financial  limits  to have a claim under Section 75. And as such 
there is no reason  for American Express to refund Miss D under section 75.
Miss D argues that I should look into how American Express deal with other people who 
have similar issues.  However that would be a broader piece of work around businesses  
treating customers fairly and that is the responsibility  of the Financial Conduct  Authority.  This 
services role is to consider each dispute  between  complainants and businesses  on their 
individual merits. And as Ive said just because  one firm refunds a chargeback doesnt mean 
what American Express have done here in Miss Ds particular circumstances is unfair.
Miss D has also said she is considering taking the matter to the Courts.  This service  is an 
alternative dispute resolution  service. If she doesnt wish to accept my decision then she is 
at liberty not to do so. But this decision represents the end of this services  consideration of 
the merits of her complaint about American  Express regarding this transaction.
In summary  I think that Miss D hasnt lost out because of American Express  not raising a 
chargeback on the basis  of her friends not being able to use the tickets  she bought. I also 
think that the financial limit requirements of the Consumer Credit Act for a section 75 claim 
were not met. So I dont  think I can fairly  require American  Express to refund Miss D for the 
football tickets. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against American Express 
Services Europe Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  15 August 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0698359