K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold them a monthly premium 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C were sold a MPPI policy in 1999  during a meeting. 
Although the mortgage was in both Mr and Mrs Cs names, the PPI policy only covered      
Mr C. The PPI would have provided  a monthly  benefit for up to 24 months per claim if Mr C 
was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs C didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr C was eligible  under the policy.  Based on Mr Cs age 
and employment  (amongst other  things)  at the time of the sale,  Im satisfied he was eligible.
BoS had to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs C that the MPPI was optional  and needed their 
consent before it could  be applied to Mr and Mrs Cs account.  Mr and Mrs C say there was 
no mention of the policy during the meeting and they thought  it was compulsory.
I cant know for sure what took place  during  the sale. So Ive thought about what Mr and   
Mrs C and BoS have  told us and have considered the documents  from the time of the sale to 
help me decide  what is more likely  to have  happened.
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application  form. Within this document there is a section  for 
MPPI. Theres  nothing in this section  which  would suggest that the MPPI was compulsory 
and in fact Mr and Mrs C would have had to sign the section specifically if they wanted to 
take it out. I note that Mr and Mrs C signed  this section.
Mr C then completed a separate MPPI application  form which  set out the cost and amount of 
MPPI benefit. Mr C signed  for MPPI separately to the actual mortgage. 
So all in all, I think its more likely that BoS made the optional  nature of the policy clear to Mr 
and Mrs C and that it was applied to the account  because they chose to take it out.
BoS accept they advised  Mr and Mrs C to take MPPI. This means they had to check  it was 
suitable for them. I dont  know  if BoS took all the steps they should have to check  if the MPPI 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs C but I do think the policy was suitable  for them.  I say this 
because:
Ref: DRN05530942-The MPPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Cs sick pay and for a much longer 
period of time. MPPI would have paid out for 24 months per claim and would also 
have paid out in the same way if he lost his job. 
-I havent seen  any evidence of any other standalone MPPI policy  which Mr and     
Mrs C could have used  to make  a claim. I understand that they had some savings but 
again the MPPI would  have paid out in addition to the savings. The MPPI was 
protecting a valuable  asset and Mr and Mrs C could have used the savings for other 
important bills and living expenses while the MPPI  took care of the mortgage  
repayments. So I dont  think  the existence of these  savings made the MPPI 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs C.
-Mr C doesnt appear  to have been  affected by the terms in the policy which  would 
have made it difficult for him to make  a successful claim  under the policy.
-The cost of the MPPI was set out clearly in the MPPI application form and I havent 
seen any evidence  which  suggests  the MPPI was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs C at 
the time of the sale.
-Mr and Mrs C could have cancelled the MPPI  at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted  or needed  it.
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C, BoS also had to give them  
clear information about the MPPI   in particular about the costs,  benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make  an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs C wasnt  as clear as it should  have been 
but this in itself doesnt mean  the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think  it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr and Mrs C this 
MPPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against Bank  of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0553094