K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that AXA insurance UK Plc (AXA) have declined her buildings  insurance 
claim unfairly.
Mrs G is represented in her complaint, but for ease of reference,  I have  only referred to Mrs 
G in my decision. 
background
Mrs G holds a buildings and contents  insurance  policy with AXA.  She notified the insurer  of a 
potential subsidence  claim in January 2018 when damage was sustained  to a retaining wall 
on her property, which is part of a structure  supporting a windmill.  
The claim was initially declined on the basis of the information provided, but Mrs G 
subsequently argued that that the damage had been caused by ground heave of the mound 
upon which the windmill sits, rather than being  caused by subsidence. 
A structural engineer  attended Mrs Gs property in April 2018. He reported that the cause of 
the walls  failure was earth and water pressure acting on the wall, which exceeded  the shear 
strength of the masonry. AXA declined the claim on the basis that there  was no evidence  of 
heave, subsidence or any other  insured peril in operation for that matter.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Gs complaint, as she also didnt think there was enough 
evidence to suggest that the damage  to the retaining wall had been caused  by ground heave 
or any other  insured peril.  Mrs G responded saying that shed never suggested  that ground 
heave was the main  cause of the damage, but was instead contending that it was caused by 
landslip  another insured peril under the policy. 
The investigator considered this, but felt that there  was insufficient evidence to suggest the 
damage had been  caused by landslip either,  as it appeared that the ground shifted as a 
result of the wall collapsing, rather than any ground movement being the cause of the wall 
collapsing. 
Mrs G then submitted that the damage  was caused by a storm. She says that water  
pressure was the main  cause of the walls failure, which had built up over an extensive  
period of storms in the weeks building up to the damage. No agreement could be met by the 
parties involved, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
Mrs Gs insurance  policy  covers  her buildings for certain insured events such  as fire or flood.  
And in order to prove a valid claim under the policy, it is for the policyholder  to show that an 
insured event has in fact occurred.
Ref: DRN01751302In the context of the damage  sustained  by the retaining wall, section nine of the policy sets 
out that AXA will provide cover  for the perils of subsidence  or heave of the site upon  which  
the buildings  stand or landslip.  The policy doesnt  define either  of these events in any more  
detail, but the Financial  Services Authority (FSA) published the following definitions in 2011, 
which I accept as being an accurate description in this case:
heave:
upward movement of ground beneath  the buildings as a result  of the soil expanding
landslip:
downward movement  of sloping ground
subsidence:
downward movement  as a result  of the soil being  compressed by the weight of the buildings 
within ten years of construction.
So in order to prove that she had a valid claim, the burden was on Mrs G to show  that the 
damage to her wall was caused  by one of the events as described  above. The report 
compiled by the structural engineer comments that the wall had failed by shearing  along the 
line of the DPC, collapsing when the displacement of the wall allowed it to overbalance and 
topple over.  The top of the foundation  was exposed in the collapsed  section of the wall, and 
despite the disruptive effect of the roots and the overturning  force of the wall, the remaining 
portion of the wall below the DPC level was reasonably level. So the structural engineer 
concluded that the cause  of the failure was earth and water pressure acting on the wall, 
which exceeded the shear strength of the masonry.
AXA declined to cover  Mrs G as a result of the structural engineers findings, and I dont 
think theyve acted  unreasonably in doing so. Based on the report,  there is no evidence of 
either upward or downward movement of the ground,  as there does not appear  to have been 
any progressive foundation movement. In fact, the structural engineer  even said it will be 
sufficient to reconstruct  the wall on top of the existing foundation, which further supports 
there being no ground movement thats  consistent  with either heave or subsidence. 
In terms of the damage potentially being  cause by landslip,  I do not feel there is sufficient 
evidence to substantiate this claim either. There is no mention of any landslip by the 
structural engineer, and I agree with the investigator  that it appears as though  the wall 
collapse has caused the mound to shift slightly, rather than it being  the cause of the wall 
collapse in itself. And such is not consistent with what the structural engineer has reported  
as the main cause  of the damage  either.  
So Im satisfied  based  on the evidence available to AXA   that they fairly concluded that 
neither of these  insured events had been  the proximate cause of the damage sustained  to 
the retaining wall. And neither has Mrs G provided  any persuasive evidence to the contrary.  
Mrs G says that she has incurred substantial costs in order to find out the peril to justify  the 
claim, and that all she knows is that the wall has suffered damage. I sympathise with the 
frustrating circumstances  Mrs G find herself  in, but it is a well-established principle that it is 
for the policyholder to prove they have  a claim.  And any costs that may be incurred in the 
Ref: DRN01751303course of proving that there is in fact a valid claim are not typically  the responsibility  of the 
insurer. AXA also make  it clear  in the policy terms and conditions that they will not pay for 
fees incurred in preparing or furthering any claim under  this policy . And where the reported  
cause of the damage does not fall within one of the insured perils listed under the policy, 
AXA are not liable to indemnify the claim.
Mrs G has argued  that AXA are treating the area of damage as a wall that is not part of the 
structure of the outbuilding. She says that the wall retains the mound on which  the windmill 
stands, and must form part of its structure.  But I note that these points  are in relation to 
whether the claim  would be caught  by an exclusion under  the policy, which  would only fall to 
be considered  if there is in fact an insured peril in the first place. But given that there is not 
enough evidence  to suggest that the damage  has been caused  by an insured  event,  I do not 
feel it necessary to comment on whether any policy exclusions would potentially apply. 
Mrs G has recently  raised the point  that the cause of the damage was storm related. But I 
cannot see any evidence  of this being  raised  previously with AXA,  who do not appear to 
have had a chance to consider this. So I do not think it would  be appropriate for me to 
comment on whether there  is any merit in this claim at this point, as my remit in this dispute 
extends as far as considering the original points raised with the insurer, which  concerned the 
claim being declined  on the basis of there being no subsidence, heave or landslip. So this is 
something Mrs G will need to raise with AXA in the first instance.
But for the reasons given already, I do not consider  AXA have acted unreasonably by 
declining the claim on the weight of the evidence available. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0175130