K821x#15complaint
As executor of Mr As estate, Mrs B brings this complaint. She says TenetConnect Limited 
failed to correctly  advise Mr A to put a recommended  term assurance  policy  under trust.
In order to protect the identities of the parties  involved, Ive not used their correct  initials.
So Im referring to the estate of as Mr A and the representative of the estate as Mrs B.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision which I issued on 
9 August 2021,  so I wont repeat this in detail again  here. In summary, my provisional 
decision said:
Tenet hadnt correctly  advised Mr A in 2011, when one of its advisers recommended 
he (Mr A) take out a term assurance policy. Specifically, the adviser hadnt 
recommended that Mr A put the policy under trust for the benefit  of Mrs B, his 
partner. As Tenet had already  accepted  this as part of its response to Mrs B, the only 
matter in dispute was the issue of redress.
I considered that Tenet should  fairly be held responsible for the cost of the Grant  of 
Probate (GOP), as this was only needed  as a result of its mistake. The term 
assurance provider,  who I referred  to as P, confirmed this would  not have been 
necessary if the policy had been  written into trust.
But I couldnt fairly hold Tenet responsible for some of the other  costs  that Mrs B had 
asked it to pay. In the case of the distress and inconvenience caused, I couldnt  
award this to Mrs B as she wasnt the eligible complainant but I noted Tenet had said 
the offer of £250  it already made to her, was still open for her to accept. In terms of 
the financial loss Mrs B was claiming resulted from Tenets mistake,  I concluded 
these were expenses  she was always liable to pay.
Tenet responded saying it had no further  comments to make.  Mrs B responded. In short, she 
made the following points:
She doesnt think our service has dealt with the mis-selling aspect of this complaint;
Tenet had initially  requested proof  of expenses  shed incurred, and she incurred 
further costs as a result of trying to get the relevant evidence. She said Tenet then 
changed its mind;
She didnt understand why P wouldnt agree to change Mr As policy  when 
requested.
So the matter  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As I previously said to Mrs B, Id like to pass on my sincere condolences for her loss. I know  
its been a difficult  time for her since the loss of Mr A.
Ref: DRN04091492Ive taken into account the further  submissions Mrs B has made.  However, nothing she has 
said, changes my mind about  the outcome I recommended in my provisional decision. The 
extract from my provisional decision now forms part of my final decision:
Ill note at this stage that whilst Ive carefully  read all the representations made by Mrs B, I 
wont be addressing  every single point shes raised. Ive instead  concentrated on the issues I 
think are central to the outcome  of this complaint. Further, where the evidence is incomplete 
or contradictory, my decision  is based  on a balance of probabilities.
Im satisfied the purpose of the advice  was to ensure  Mr A and Mrs Bs mortgage was 
protected in the event of eithers death. Mr A clearly wanted Mrs B to benefit  from the policy 
he set up. So I think Mr A was incorrectly advised  when  he wasnt told to put the policy  into 
trust for her benefit. As this matter isnt disputed by either party,  Ill concentrate the 
remainder of my decision on what I think the appropriate redress  should be.
It is worth mentioning here that our standard approach is to put, as far as possible, the 
complainant in a position  they would have  been  but for the mistake made by the respondent. 
Further, under  our rules, I can only consider awarding redress  to the eligible complainant. In 
this case the eligible  complainant is the estate of Mr A, here represented by Mrs B. 
If Mr A had been properly  advised by Tenet the payment under the claim would have been 
paid to Mrs B. As the main beneficiary  under Mr As will, Mrs B has received the claim 
monies which was settled at the end of 2019. I know that Mrs B had concerns before the 
claim was settled about members of Mr As family being entitled  to payment as the money 
was being paid to his estate. But ultimately,  this didnt happen,  and she did receive payment. 
So I dont  think any redress is due in this regard.
In terms of other potential  losses,  its clear  that as a direct result  of the policy  not being 
written under  trust,  Mrs B needed to obtain a Grant of Probate (GOP). P [the assurance 
provider] told this service the following: If the policy had been written under  trust we would 
not have needed to wait for the Grant of Probate (GOP) to finalise this claim.  This is 
because the trust would have laid out the clients wishes of who should receive the money  in 
event of his death.
So I think its fair for Tenet  to reimburse the cost of the GOP  to Mr As estate which  was only 
needed as a result of its error. Mrs B says she paid £661 for the GOP. But I can see from the 
UK Government website,  the standard application  fee for a GOP is £215. So I intend to 
award this sum to Mr As estate along  with interest,  subject  to any further evidence  Mrs B 
provides about  any additional costs the estate  incurred  in obtaining this document.
Mrs B says due to the delay in receiving the claim, she found it difficult to meet  necessary 
expenses such as those  related to dealing with the property she jointly  owned with Mr A. But 
as this was a jointly owned  property,  I consider the expenses shes listed  such as solicitor  
fees, postal costs and flights, were costs she would  always have been liable to pay  in other 
words, they did not come  about because of Tenets  mistake. I accept situation was made 
more difficult due to the need to obtain a further document to settle  the estate. But I cant  
fairly hold Tenet responsible for reimbursing Mrs B for costs  she was always  liable to pay.
Ive also taken account of the reason for the delay to settling the claim. Mrs B was told at the 
outset by P that shed need  to submit a GOP to make the claim. Mrs B didnt get this 
document (the GOP) until August 2019. She says the delay was caused by her having to 
deal with other matters  related to Mr As tax affairs. I take on board what  Mrs B says. I know  
Ref: DRN04091493settling an estate following the death  of a partner can be difficult. But I dont think I can hold 
Tenet responsible for the delays in applying for the GOP.
Further, even once  Mrs B obtained the GOP  in August 2019  the claim wasnt  finalised until 
after the final death certificate was issued a few months  later. Mrs B says once she 
submitted the GOP that P would no longer accept an interim death certificate and wanted 
the final death certificate to settle  the claim. This wasnt issued until end of 2019, but I can 
see within two weeks of everything being submitted to P the claim was settled.
All in all, for all these  reasons,  Im satisfied the only expense  Tenet  can be reasonably held 
liable for as a consequence of its error, is the cost of the GOP.
Mrs B says shes  suffered  a great  deal of stress  and inconvenience because  of Tenets 
mistake. I sympathise with Mrs Bs situation and do appreciate how difficult  this has been for 
her. But as the estate of Mr A is the only eligible complainant in this case, I can only consider 
redress for the estate.  Nonetheless, I can see Tenet  has offered Mrs B £250 compensation 
which it confirmed to this service is still open for her to accept.
Ill now address Mrs Bs other comments in response to my provisional  decision.
The issues  Mrs B has raised about  P are part of a separate  complaint already considered  by 
our service.  I cant comment  on these issues as part of this complaint.
Mrs B says that Tenet  had initially agreed to pay some expenses  if she was able to provide 
proof. But as Ive explained above, the expenses  Mrs B is seeking to claim were expenses 
she was liable to pay in any event. And for the reasons Ive set out above, I cant  fairly  make 
an award for these.
Mrs B doesnt think Ive dealt with the mis-selling aspect of Mr As complaint but as set out 
above, I agree that Tenet did mis-advise Mr A. And this isnt disputed by either party.  In this 
case, Ive taken into account the loss to the estate and from what  I can see the only loss that 
I could reasonably make an award for was the cost of the GOP. Mrs B hasnt provided any 
further evidence  to show she has incurred any more than the standard application fee of 
£215, so this is what I will award in this case.
For all these reasons, Im upholding the complaint and make the award  as set out below.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and order TenetConnect Limited to pay Mrs B acting on behalf  of the 
estate of Mr A, the sum of £215  plus 8% simple interest  a year from the date of the 
application of the Grant of Probate to the date it settles the redress.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 October  2021.
Yolande McLeod
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0409149