K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy about  how long it took Experian Limited to amend the incorrect  
information it recorded on Mr Ks credit  file.
background 
Mr and Mrs K applied  for a mortgage.  Their application was declined  and they were told to 
look at their Experian credit file. They looked and Mr Ks credit file had errors. Further 
mistakes then followed. Experian now think the errors have been corrected but Mr and Mrs K 
arent as certain  as they have been unable to log onto their account.
During this time Mr and Mrs K became increasingly frustrated as they felt they were missing  
out on the chance to reduce their monthly  costs with changes  to their borrowing. They  think  
had their original mortgage  application proceeded they would have saved at least  £450  each 
month. They also feel they should  receive a refund of the Experian Premium membership 
(£15 each) and compensation  for the loss of the £300 cashback they would have earned if 
their mortgage had gone ahead. 
When they complained  to Experian it eventually paid them  £150.
The investigator didnt  think the service Mr and Mrs K received from Experian was 
satisfactory, and she didnt think the compensation offered was fair. She thought  Experian  
should pay £600 (so a further  £450) for the trouble and upset caused. She didnt think  she 
could recommend an award for financial loss as she hadnt seen evidence of the mortgage  
or credit card balance  transfer applications that were declined by the respective bank/s and 
credit providers. But she said if Mr and Mrs K are able to provide evidence of declined 
mortgage and credit card applications shed reconsider  her position. And once Mr and Mrs K 
had successfully applied  for a new mortgage,  shed consider the difference  theyve had to 
pay between the variable and fixed mortgage repayments.
Experian accepted the investigators view.
Mr and Mrs K sent more information  to the investigator regarding their costs. They reiterated 
that they still couldnt log in to Experians service.
The investigator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to reasonably  substantiate the 
financial loss Mr and Mrs K feel they have suffered. She asked Mr and Mrs K to let her know  
if they had successfully applied to remortgage  so that she could consider the difference that 
they had to pay between the variable and fixed mortgage repayments.
Mr and Mrs K didnt  let her know whether or not they had remortgaged.
I asked the investigator  to explain that as they hadnt provided  information on any 
remortgage we couldnt  look at this loss in this decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision. I said it was accepted by both parties  that the Experian credit 
file for Mr K was incorrect and that when Mr K pointed this out to Experian  it  in trying  to 
correct its mistakes  made  further  errors.
Ref: DRN08268842Mr and Mrs K had not been able to confirm whether or not Mr Ks credit file is accurate now 
as they were logged  out of their account.  I had seen a copy of Mr Ks report dated 10 June 
and the errors did seem  to have been corrected. I thought it was important Mr Ks file should 
be accurate, and as Mr and Mrs K have been  unable to check  it themselves, I asked the 
investigator to ask Experian to send Mr K a hard copy of his up-to-date  report to their home 
address so that he could check it.
Based upon what  Id seen I said I was satisfied Mr and Mrs K were  seeking to increase their 
mortgage debt and to use the increased borrowing to reduce their credit card debt. I was 
also satisfied that their original application was turned down  after searches by their chosen 
lender with Experian. This was because  Mr Ks credit file shows  searches by that lender on 
4 January 2019 and 13 February 2019. I hadnt  seen any evidence that the second lender 
their broker  approached carried out a search  with Experian. What I couldnt  be satisfied of 
though is that had the information  on the credit file been correct  that an application would 
have been successful.
From the information Id seen I didnt think Mr and Mrs K had remortgaged  at the time of the 
provisional decision. But I couldnt  be certain  of this. I was not clear  why they hadnt gone 
ahead given the monthly savings they anticipated making. I wanted to understand more  
about why they hadnt  gone ahead before I considered their financial loss. As things stood 
though I didnt think we could say with any certainty  that  but for Experians error   they 
would have made a successful  application  and made the savings they thought  they would. I 
said there are a number  of factors a lender will take into account when assessing  whether 
its prepared to lend to a customer and, if so, how much. And any of these additional  factors 
may have  had an impact  on any application  they made  alongside whatever Experian  was 
recording.
It was clear to me, however, that Mr and Mrs K were  very frustrated, not just by the initial  
error, but also by the failure  to correct that error.  It wasnt until after the complaint came  to 
this service that Experian seems to have grasped  the complaint. And the first evidence I had 
that the errors appear to have been  corrected was June  2019 which  is five months  after the 
initial complaint.  I thought  that must have been  very frustrating, not to mention  inconvenient, 
for Mr and Mrs K. So I thought in these circumstances it would be fair for Mr and Mrs K to 
have a refund of the fee they paid to Experian  (so £30) as well as the additional payment of 
£450 recommended  by the investigator to compensate them for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs K didnt  respond to my provisional decision. 
Experian confirmed  it had sent a paper copy  of Mr Ks report to him on 29 October. It didnt 
comment on the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K didnt  provide any of the information I requested. That being  the case  Im 
making my final decision based  on the evidence that I had at the time of the provisional 
decision.
Ref: DRN08268843As I said in the provisional decision it does seem that the errors have been corrected and I 
cant be certain that, but for those  errors,  Mr and Mrs K would have been able to remortgage 
with the first provider they approached. I think nonetheless the experience was very 
frustrating and that fair compensation  would be what I set out in the provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  that Experian  Limited pay Mr and Mrs K a further £450 and 
refund the £30 fee they paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 December  2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0826884