K820x#14complaint
Mr U complains that hes still receiving emails from Barclays  Bank UK PLC about a free 
credit report  facility provided as part of his Barclaycard benefits  even though  he closed his 
accounts.
To settle  matters he wants  the emails to stop and to recoup his wasted time.
background
Mr U had a Barclaycard account. A benefit  of this account was that he could access his 
credit score for free. He says that despite closing his accounts,  Barclays  continued to send 
him emails inviting him to view his credit score.
Barclays upheld his complaint. It said hed continued  to receive emails because it hadnt  
realised he had two Barclays accounts.  That meant one of his accounts  wasnt closed and it 
was in relation  to his open account that hed continued  to receive emails. Barclays  
apologised and paid £75. It reassured him that he shouldnt receive  any further emails.
However, after Barclays issued its final response  letter in December 2018,  Mr U provided 
copies of further emails  he received in May and July 2019 and also a letter  in May 2019 - to 
tell him a promotional rate on a credit  card account  hed already closed would  soon be 
coming to an end.
Mr U complained to our service. Our investigator  didnt  think  Barclays  had done  anything 
wrong when it sent further emails to him after he was reassured  he wouldnt receive further 
emails. The investigator thought the further emails Mr U received were  sent to him after hed 
applied for a new Barclaycard in mid-May 2019. Although this card was closed a few days  
later, Barclays systems  didnt officially close the account until the end of July 2019.
The investigator explained that this service couldnt  consider  the letter Barclays  had sent in 
May 2019 because  hed only previously  complained  to Barclays  about receiving unwanted 
emails. This was a new complaint and he would  need to raise this complaint with Barclays 
first. However, the investigator explained  that Barclays had agreed  to pay £50 as a gesture 
of goodwill  for this which I understand Mr U wishes to accept.
Mr U disagrees  with the investigators view. He thinks  the information contradicts.  He 
questions how it can be fair for him to continue to receive emails  from December 2018 due 
to a card he applied for in May 2019? And nor does he think it fair that he continued to 
receive emails after hed closed the account  he applied for in May 2019.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays provided information to us to show Mr U previously held three Barclays accounts. 
One of his accounts was closed at the beginning of May 2017 and another account is shown 
as closed in October  2017.
Barclays systems  also show that in May 2019  Mr U applied for a new credit  card account. 
Barclays explained that due to new requirements to validate applicants income it wasnt able 
to offer Mr U the credit limit hed requested. Mr U closed the account a few days later but Ive 
Ref: DRN03156592seen information  to show it wasnt officially closed on Barclays  systems until the end of July 
2019.
Barclays apologised for the emails  sent to Mr U. It explained they were sent because it 
hadnt closed  one of his accounts. This explanation  is consistent  with the information 
Barclays provided to us. This shows that one of his accounts was closed in May 2017 
whereas his other account wasnt closed until mid-October 2017. I think  the explanation 
provided by Barclays  most  likely explains why he continued to receive  emails  after hed 
closed his accounts.
Mr U told us the emails he received invited him to view his credit score. I can understand 
why it would be annoying for Mr U to receive  emails after he thought  hed closed his 
accounts. But I cant say the nature of the emails would have been likely to cause Mr U any 
particular concern or distress.  And theres no suggestion he suffered any financial loss. I 
cant say Mr U was significantly inconvenienced  by them. It follows that I think the £75 
compensation paid by Barclays is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
When Barclays issued its final response  letter in December  2018,  it reassured Mr U that he 
shouldnt receive  any further emails.  Despite this, Mr U says he received  further  emails  and 
hes provided copies  of emails dated  May and July 2019.
I can understand why Mr U was unhappy  to receive  further emails  in May and July 2019 
especially as Barclays had reassured him he wouldnt receive anything further. However,  
Barclays explained that the emails  sent in May and July 2019 were most likely  generated not 
in relation to the accounts hed already  closed  but in relation to a new credit card hed 
applied for in May 2019. Although this credit  card account was closed a few days  later Ive 
seen that the account wasnt officially closed on Barclays systems until the end of July 2019.
The further emails  sent to Mr U in May and July 2019 are consistent with the dates during 
which the new credit account  Mr U applied for in May 2019 remained open  on Barclays 
systems. So I think its more likely  than not that the further emails were generated in 
connection with this new account.  So I cant say Barclays acted unfairly in sending  emails 
during the time the account remained open  on its systems.
I can appreciate that receipt of these emails  may have caused some  minor inconvenience to 
Mr U  particularly as hed had problems before. But the emails  were similar to the emails 
hed received previously  and invited him to view his credit score. For the same  reasons Ive 
explained above I cant say they had any significant  impact on him that requires me to make 
a compensatory  award.
The investigator has already explained that we cant consider Mr Us complaint about the 
letter Barclays sent him about  the expiration of a promotional rate on a credit card account  
hed already closed. Thats because this is a new issue that didnt form part of Mr Us original 
complaint to Barclays. If Mr U would like this to be investigated he must raise  a new 
complaint to Barclays in the first instance. I understand, however, that Barclays has offered a 
£50 payment by way of a gesture of goodwill for this. I understand Mr U wishes  to accept 
this but its important that I explain  to Mr U that weve not investigated this part of his 
complaint. It is up to Mr U to decide if he wishes to accept Barclays  offer. If so, Id expect 
Barclays to honour this.
Ref: DRN03156593my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0315659