K821x#15complaint
Mr O has complained about a loan granted  to him by Madison CF UK Limited  trading  as 
118118 Money (118118). He says 118118  was irresponsible to have agreed  this loan for 
him as he had a very poor credit rating  and spiralling debts.
background
118118 agreed a loan of £3,000 for Mr O in November 2016  which  came to £5,487  including  
interest and charges. This was to be repaid over two years at £229 a month (all figures 
rounded).
Mr O says that he was in financial difficulty when he took out the loan as he was borrowing 
from several other lenders at that time and spending  money on gambling. He says he had to 
enter into a repayment  plan after about  four months into the agreement as he couldnt  meet  
his repayment  along with all his other debts. Mr O says that he found himself applying  for 
more and more  credit to manage his payments. 
118118 says that it undertook extensive  checks to ensure the loan was affordable  for Mr O 
and that it wasnt  irresponsible  to agree to lend to him. 
Our adjudicator looked into what happened  when Mr Os loan was agreed.  She found  that 
118118 should have gone further in its affordability  checks and, had it done so, would have 
seen that Mr O wasnt likely to be able to repay the loan sustainably.  She recommended  that 
118118 refund the interest  and charges  Mr O paid for his loan.
118118 didnt  respond to this recommendation and so the complaint to come to me, as an 
ombudsman, to review and resolve.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory  rules and good  industry practice at the time.
Having done so, I plan to uphold Mr Os complaint. I appreciate  this will be very 
disappointing for 11818 and I hope my explanation below makes it clear  why I have come to 
this conclusion.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  118118 lent to Mr O. Its rules 
and guidance  obliged 118118 to lend responsibly.  As set out in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), the lender  needed to pay due regard to the interests  of its customers 
and treat them fairly and it would not be doing  so if it targeted  customers  with regulated  
credit agreements which are unsuitable  for them, by virtue of their indebtedness,  poor credit 
history, age, health,  disability or any other reason. (CONC 2.2.2G).
When agreeing  credit,  118118 needed to take reasonable  and proportionate steps to assess 
whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments  in a sustainable manner 
over the lifetime of the agreement. 
Ref: DRN04047062CONC 5.3.1G stated  that
1.In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more  than assessing  the customer's ability  to repay  the 
credit.
2.The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability  to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner  meant  being  able to meet repayments out of normal  
income while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  without  having  to borrow  further  to 
meet these repayments;  without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G - 6) or in 
particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.31).
Neither the law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed  to carry out an 
appropriate assessment  or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice.  The 
FCA said that the level of detail  would  depend  on the type of product, the amount of credit 
being considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers  
financial situation, amongst other factors. 
As set out in CONC,  the risk to the borrower directly relates to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the borrower.  In other  words the assessment  needs to be 
borrower-focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to the lender of recouping  its money, 
but of the risk to the borrower of incurring  financial  difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences as a result of the decision to lend. 
It is important  to note here that the FCA didnt,  and doesnt, specify  exactly  how the 
assessment is to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types  and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough  to be able to reasonably  assess  the sustainability  
of the arrangement for the borrower . 
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed  checks
-the lower a persons  income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
-the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);  
-the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the borrower  is required to make  payments for an 
extended period).
1 ILG refers to the Irresponsible Lending Guidance produced by the previous regulator - the Office of 
Fair Trading - which this part of CONC  specifically  references.
Ref: DRN04047063Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Os case, I have  considered the 
following questions:
-did 118118 complete reasonable and proportionate checks  when assessing 
Mr Os loan application to satisfy  itself that he would  be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
-if not, what would  reasonable  and proportionate  checks have shown? 
-did 118118 make a fair lending decision?
118118 says it gathered  information from Mr O about his income and expenses online.  Its 
records show that Mr Os income was £1,700 a month and his total monthly expenses came  
to £550. These comprised: £300  for home  costs;  £50 for food; £100 for card payments and 
£100 for insurances. I note that Mr O said he had no other loan repayments, that this loan 
was for a car purchase or repair and he appeared to have a monthly disposable income  of 
over £1,000. Mr O also said that he was in full time employment and living with his parents.
118118 says that it had a welcome telephone call with Mr O before disbursing the funds. It 
says it asked him on the call if the loan repayments  would  be affordable for him, whether 
there was likely to be any change to this, and whether he was undergoing any sort of debt 
management plan.  118118 said in its final response to Mr O that it was concerned that he 
was now saying that the loan was unaffordable for him, given his answers  over the phone  
and that he signed a declaration to state  that the information he provided was true and that, 
in effect, that he would be able to meet his repayments.
Ive listened to this call and note that it lasted about four minutes  and Mr O was asked these 
questions after being told the loan had been  approved. So this call doesnt seem  to have 
formed part of 118118s affordability assessment. And, with respect  to 118118,  the 
regulations I am bearing in mind  when making  my decision relate to its obligations as a 
lender. For example, CONC 5.3.7R states that a firm must not accept an application  for 
credit under a regulated credit  agreement where the firm knows or ought reasonably to 
suspect that the customer has not been  truthful in completing the application in relation to 
information supplied  by the customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment.
118118 said that Once an application is submitted it is reviewed not only by our system and 
assessed against our scorecard  but also, where  required, manually reviewed by our 
Underwriting team. We use industry standard verification  checks to validate  the information  
provided by you on the application. The lender hasnt  expanded  on this but has included a 
copy of Mr Os credit report  and an affordability report  from the time of the application. I can 
see from these that Mr O had at least five existing loans,  four of which  appear to be from 
short term loan providers  and all of which  were  taken out in the previous two months.  He 
also had balances of over £4,500 on mail order accounts, with a record of missed payments. 
Altogether, it appears he would  need  to repay over £1,000 a month on his existing credit  
commitments. 
I dont think 118118  treated  Mr O fairly when it agreed to lend on the basis of the information  
it had gathered. Some of the information  Mr O had provided was inconsistent  with what  it 
gathered through its checks and, furthermore, the amount it could see that he was 
committed to repaying each month was likely to impact on his ability  to meet  repayments  for 
any further credit in a sustainable manner. A reasonable and proportionate response from 
118118 might have included further investigation of Mr Os finances and verification of his 
outgoings before granting a loan. But, based on Mr Os bank statements from the time as a 
reasonable proxy, further checks wouldnt have  provided any reassurance  that Mr O could 
Ref: DRN04047064afford to meet his repayments without getting  into difficulty. I can see from the statement of 
the loan account that within a few months  of taking out the loan Mr O was making reduced 
payments each month. 
Altogether, Ive concluded that 118118  was unlikely to have agreed to lend to Mr O had it 
taken full account of his circumstances, and so I find it was irresponsible  to have done so.
what 118118 should do to put things right
Ive concluded  that 118118  was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mr O in November  
2016. So he shouldnt have to pay any interest,  fees or charges associated with the loan. 
To put things right for Mr O, 118118  should:
a)refund all interest,  fees and charges  that he paid on this loan; and
b)add 8% simple interest* to these payments from the date they were  made  to the date 
the complaint is settled; and
c)remove any adverse  information from Mr Os credit  file in relation to the loan. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires 118118  to take off tax from this interest.  118118 must 
give Mr O a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118118 Money)  to 
put things right for him as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2021.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0404706