K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited has increased the fees on his 
account, and hes been unable to transfer  his account elsewhere.
background 
Mr J has a share dealing  account with Interactive Investor. In 2018, Interactive Investor 
changed its fees. It allowed its customers to exit the account and transfer  their holdings to 
another provider  for free. However, Mr J couldnt  do this. This was because  one of his 
holdings was the subject of corporate action  a liquidation. This has yet to be finalised.
Mr J complained to Interactive Investor  as he didnt feel it was fair that he pays  fees on his 
holding, when it is not his fault that he cannot  transfer it. Interactive Investor agreed to waive  
the fees for six months.
Our investigator looked at the complaint, she explained that she felt Interactive Investor 
should waive the fees on Mr Js account  until the corporate action relating to liquidation  had 
completed. But she explained  that Mr J should pay the fees if hes had his other  holdings  still 
with Interactive Investor.
Mr J disagreed with the investigators findings. He explained that if he had known at the time 
that the fees would  be waived, he would have transferred his other investments out earlier. 
He then took steps to transfer the other  holdings.  His Interactive Investor  account  now only 
has the holding  that is the subject of corporate  action.
Interactive Investor  said it cannot waive the fees for Mr J indefinitely   but it would consider 
extending the period for which it has waived  the fees.
Since the complaint was passed to me, Interactive  Investor  has agreed to waive  the 
quarterly fees until the liquidation  is concluded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Js frustration in not being  able to transfer  all of his holdings  from 
Interactive Investor  when  it introduced its new charges. But this is due to one of his holdings 
being the subject of corporate action. So Interactive Investor cant transfer this holding.  It told 
Mr J that the way to avoid  the account  management  fee was to gift the specific shares  to 
charity.
I understand that Mr J was unhappy  with this solution to avoid the fees, but Interactive 
Investor also agreed to waive the next two account  management fees. Following our 
involvement it has agreed to waive the fees until the end of the corporate action. I think this 
is fair. Mr J decided  to remove the remainder  of his holdings in October 2018, and Interactive 
Investor hasnt charged Mr J the quarterly fee since then. I think this is fair. I also understand 
it has refunded the July 2018 and October 2018  fees.
I understand Mr J feels he could have moved his other holdings  earlier, but was told he 
would have to pay the increased  fees regardless.  Interactive Investor  told him this based  on 
Ref: DRN02863782its terms. And it has since waived two quarterly fees up until Mr J transferred the remainder 
of his holdings.  Im also satisfied that Interactive Investor looked into ways of allowing Mr J to 
close his account  prior to the corporate  action completing. 
It is fair in these circumstances that Mr J isnt charged a fee to hold an account solely 
because hes unable  to transfer his holdings.  The corporate action isnt something  he can 
help, and hes not using the account whilst this is the only holding. When Mr J brought his 
complaint to this service  he said he didnt want Interactive Investor to apply any of its 
increased fees until he could transfer  out and close his account. This is what  Im 
recommending it does.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Interactive Investor Services Limited 
must waive its quarterly account management  fees until the corporate action on Mr Js 
holding his completed and hes able to close his account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0286378