K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that AliCO (now ReAssure Limited) set up three pension policies for him in 
the early 1990s.  He says he does not understand why he had three policies, and thinks  he 
may have  been  disadvantaged by this. 
background
In 1992 Mr B met with a tied advisor  from AliCO.  At this time Mr B around twenty five years 
old, and had and pension policy with another provider into which National Insurance  rebates 
were paid, as Mr B had contracted  out of the second state pension (SERPS).
AliCO advised Mr B to take a personal pension policy out with it, and make monthly 
contributions. The monthly contributions were to be invested in a managed  fund. Mr B 
accepted this advice and began to make monthly  contributions into the policy.  He continued 
making these contributions until 1996, when he opened a new policy with another  provider. 
Mr B was also advised to pay his National  Insurance  rebates into another  new policy with 
AliCO. He accepted  that advice. He was further  advised to transfer the benefits  hed built up 
in the policy  with the other provider through these  rebates to AliCO. That required a third 
new policy. So Mr B ended up with three  policies in all. 
AliCO is now part of ReAssure Limited (ReAssure), so the complaint  was made to it. 
ReAssure did not uphold the complaint. It said the policies  were each suitable for Mr B and 
the two policies which had been  set up to accept the National Insurance rebates were not 
subject to any fees or charges  so Mr B had not been disadvantaged by having  these  
additional policies.  Mr B was not happy with this response, so came  to us. 
Our investigator looked into things, and concluded that Mr Bs complaint should  not be 
upheld. She said she had not seen  any evidence to show Mr B had been disadvantaged by 
having three polices.  She also said she was satisfied the policies were suitable  for Mr Bs 
circumstances. She noted that a fact-find  was completed,  showing  Mr Bs circumstances 
were understood, and he had an objective  of saving for retirement. 
Mr B did not accept this view, so the complaint was referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Bs concerns about his pensions. Hes ended  up with a lot of different 
policies and I know it cant be easy keeping track  of them  all. I understand Mr B has a made 
a number of complaints against different businesses about  the pensions  he has built up over 
the years, and is keen for these complaints to be considered alongside  one another. I will 
consider each of the complaints and issue decisions on each in due course. To reassure 
Mr B, I confirm  I have read the case files on the other complaints to get an understanding of 
the full picture.  
I know Mr B will be disappointed by this but, like the investigator, I do not think  there is 
sufficient evidence to show it would be fair and reasonable to say AliCO  did anything wrong 
when recommending and setting up three policies in 1992. I am satisfied that the policies  
Ref: DRN08900582were suitable for Mr B, and I have not seen sufficient evidence to show he was 
disadvantaged by having more than one policy. 
It appears that the personal pension into which Mr B was paying monthly contributions  could 
not accept his National Insurance rebates, and a further policy  was needed to hold the 
protected rights  Mr B had accumulated through paying National Insurance rebates into a 
policy with another  provider.  ReAssure has confirmed  neither of these policies had fees or 
charges associated with them. So although it was not ideal to have three polices, I do not 
think it would  be fair to say it was unsuitable to advise Mr B to set these two additional 
policies up, given that was what had to happen for AliCOs  advice to be enacted. 
The premiums Mr B was advised  to pay into the policy he was making monthly  contributions 
to were affordable,  and the selected managed  fund was consistent with his circumstances 
and objectives.  And I think  it was suitable to advise  Mr B to continue  to contract out of 
SERPS. He was well under  the pivotal age at which it was felt at the time it became less 
attractive to contract out. I also do not think it was unsuitable, as it appears it did not involve 
additional charges, for Mr Bs existing accumulated National  Insurance rebates to be 
transferred to AliCO,  to bring  everything under one roof. I understand these policies were  
invested into the same managed fund as Mr Bs monthly contributions.  I do not think  this was 
unsuitable, given  the sums involved, Mr Bs objectives, and the length of time until his 
intended retirement age. 
Overall, I do not think there  is sufficient  evidence to say AliCO did anything wrong. So I am 
not going to ask ReAssure to do anything else. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0890058