K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K bring a complaint on behalf  of R, a company, in relation  to the service they 
received from BUPA  Insurance Limited when  they made claims on their group insurance 
policy and the cancellation of their international private health  insurance plan.  
background
R had an international private health  insurance  plan which covered Mr and Mrs K and their 
family. In December 2017 they started to have problems logging  their claims on BUPAs 
online portal. They say that BUPA hasnt paid all of the claims they submitted and they are 
unhappy with how this was handled. 
The policy was then cancelled  by BUPA because the premiums hadnt been  paid. Mr and 
Mrs K say theyve been gold members of BUPA for ten years  and that all of this stemmed  
from the poor claims handling. So they dont think its fair for BUPA to cancel the policy.  
In March 2018 BUPA issued a final response  letter. They said that the payment of premiums 
was already an issue before Mr and Mrs K started  having problems accessing the online 
portal. BUPA also provided a breakdown of the claims, explaining that some were duplicates  
that had already been paid and that some were  still outstanding because  more information 
was needed. They did acknowledge that they had caused delay in relation to some of the 
claims and offered the equivalent of around £140  compensation  to reflect  any 
inconvenience. 
In May 2018  BUPA wrote  to Mr K, as the primary member of Rs scheme,  confirming that 
they were terminating  the agreement because of non-payment of premiums.  Rs legal 
representative wrote back  explaining there had been  a number of failings in the service 
provided and the offer of compensation  didnt adequately reflect  the time Mrs K had spent 
resolving this issue. They also asked  for the account to be reinstated  immediately. BUPA 
responded to say that this wouldnt be possible and explaining the outstanding debt needed 
to be paid. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think that BUPA had acted 
unreasonably and was satisfied theyd  taken reasonable steps to assist  the members  in 
making their claims. And she was satisfied  it was reasonable for BUPA to cancel the policy  
and to refuse to pay some  of the outstanding  claims,  because R hadnt paid the premiums. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt  agree  they said they had a wonderful relationship with BUPA until 
2017 and there was never any doubt  theyd pay the premiums. But, in summary, they 
wanted reassurance  the system would work properly.  Mrs K said BUPA  still hadnt  settled 
the bills for certain  treatments shed had. BUPA provided further evidence of this which, they 
said, demonstrates theyd made the payments they needed to. 
Mrs K made some further comments.  In summary she said that BUPA  had said it would  
continue to honour their obligations whilst  they looked into the complaint. She reiterated  that 
all of this started because of issues with using the online platform and the arbitrary decision 
to end the policy has had extremely negative consequences for the family because  they rely 
on BUPAs medical treatment. 
So I need to make a decision.   
Ref: DRN05793532my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
declining the claims
BUPA has a responsibility  to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt  reject a 
claim unreasonably.  Whilst Mrs K has made a number of representations Ill only refer to the 
issues I think are central to the outcome of this complaint. 
The insurance agreement  says: 
7.1 If You fail to make any payments due to Us, Our liability to pay claims in respect 
of the Group will be suspended.  The payment of claims will be suspended until We 
have received payment in full of all outstanding payments and any further sums 
which may be due under  clause 7.2 
7.2 We may,  in Our sole discretion, pay claims for eligible treatment even if such 
treatment was incurred  before  or after the date on which Our liability was suspended 
according to clause 7.1. Any payments We make  during any period of suspension 
shall become a debt due immediately payable by You
Based on the available evidence Im satisfied that BUPA acted reasonably in this case  
because: 
Whilst there was an issue with BUPAs online platform  they took a number of steps to 
assist Mrs K in submitting  the claims she needed  to make for the members.  For 
example, they explained she could still use the old system and arranged for her to 
have a point of contact who could submit  the claims on her behalf whilst things were 
sorted out. So I think BUPA did what they could  to help and support Mrs K making  
the claims 
Mrs K was making a lot of claims on behalf  of herself and other  members.  But she 
didnt always include the information  which BUPA needed to assess the claim and in 
some situations the information wasnt clear or was illegible. In such  circumstances 
BUPA is entitled to ask for more information  to check that cover can be provided.  So 
I think it was reasonable for BUPA to ask for more information, particularly as Mrs K 
didnt always follow the guidance  for submitting a claim
BUPA has acknowledged  that there  were  administrative errors in handling some of 
the claims and it has offered compensation for this. I think the compensation offered 
is a fair amount  and reflects the inconvenience caused. Mrs K says that this doesnt 
reflect the amount  of time and effort she spent  sorting this out but shes not provided 
any clear or compelling evidence in support of why the compensation should be so 
much higher
Ref: DRN05793533Mrs K says BUPA has refused  to honour the claims which  had already been pre-
authorised but were  made during the period  when the complaint was ongoing. But 
pre-authorisation isnt a guarantee of payment  and the policy  terms say that BUPA  
can reject  a claim made during the period  of time in which  premiums  havent been 
made. Based on the evidence Ive seen  the outstanding claims appear most likely to 
have been made since  December 2017  when the premiums  stopped  being paid. So, 
whilst BUPA agreed to keep the account active during the complaints process,  I dont 
think it is unreasonable for them to decline the claims now the complaints process 
has drawn to a close and the contract has been  cancelled
In response to the investigators opinion Mrs K provided an invoice which  she said 
showed BUPA hadnt paid one of her doctors.  But BUPA  did pay all the claims up 
until the point  when the premiums  became overdue. So, for the reasons Ive outlined 
already, I dont think its unreasonable for BUPA to decline to pay for treatment after 
the premiums became  due. 
termination of the policy
The insurance agreement  states that: 
We may terminate this Agreement immediately if:
(i) You fail to pay all or any part of any amounts  due to Us under this Agreement  
or any payment  due within  30 days of the Invoice Due Date;  or 
(ii) The number of Principal members falls below 3
I dont think BUPA acted  unreasonably by cancelling the policy because: 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs K were  unhappy with the service they were  receiving  from 
BUPA and they say theyd been  good customers for a long time. But that doesnt  
mean that R can simply stop paying the premiums and expect the cover to continue. 
In order to benefit from cover R needed  to pay the premiums  that were  due. I also 
note that BUPA removed the suspension  of the account on two occasions during the 
complaints process, which I think was reasonable in the circumstances 
As the premiums werent paid between December 2017 and May 2018, in line with 
the policy terms and conditions, the policy was terminated. I can also see that BUPA  
wrote to Mr K before doing so and gave him notice that they would  end the policy.  
So I dont think BUPA acted unfairly or unreasonably  in the circumstances.  
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs K, on behalf of R, to accept or reject my decision before 
29 September 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0579353