K821x#15complaint
Mr V complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited handled  his home insurance 
claim unfairly. 
background
In September  2017 Mr V made a successful claim for escape of water on his LV home 
insurance policy. In March 2018 there was another escape of water.  LV repaired the 
damage. It recorded  it as a separate and second claim. It applied  a second excess  of £350. 
Mr V says the second repair  should be considered as a continuation of the 2017 claim.  He 
thinks LVs contractors mistake in 2017  caused the later leak.  So he says the second 
excess shouldnt have  been applied. LV said its contractor accepted it was possible it was 
responsible  however LV felt there was insufficient  evidence to prove that. So it continued 
to record the episode as two claims  and charge two excesses. 
Our investigator thought LVs contractor  was probably responsible.  So she said LV should 
treat the repairs as a continuation of the first claim and refund  the second  excess.  And she 
said LV should  refund  any extra premium Mr V paid as a result  of having two, rather one, 
claim recorded. LV didnt  accept her findings. So the complaint  has come to me for a final 
decision. 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
It seems  to be accepted  by both LV and Mr V that a pipe being  displaced, over time, 
probably caused the second escape of water. LV also accepts its possible its contractors 
accidentally knocked  it during the first claim in 2017. But it says it cant be proved thats what 
happened and its possible Mr V did it. LV says it cant be proven  its responsible.   
It doesnt need to be proven either way. My role is to decide, having  considered  the available 
information, what I thinks most likely to have happened. Its very finely  balanced, but overall  
I think its most likely  LVs contractor knocked  the pipe - so was responsible for the second 
leak.
Ive seen photos of the tank area in the loft. Theres at least  one box nearby. There  seems to 
be a clothes storage  area in the wider area. Theres a clear but confined space around the 
tank and pipe. It doesnt seem like an area that would need to be accessed or used by Mr V 
or his family. There isnt much nearby that might  be nudged into the tank.  
I accept its possible Mr V did knock the pipe whilst in the loft. Mr V says he didnt go near the 
tank during the relevant  period,  so he couldnt have. I cant know if thats true, but Ive no 
reason not to accept it. Its accepted LVs contractor was working in the tank area during the 
first claim. Considering that and type of work being done, replacing flooring, I think its most 
likely the contractor knocked the pipe then.   
So its most likely that LV caused the damage  dealt with in the second claim. So it would  be 
fair to consider it as part of the first and so only claim. To put things right LV will need to 
amend the relevant records to show just one claim.  It will need to refund Mr V the £350 
Ref: DRN05985422excess charged for the second claim. In addition, if its removal,  Mr V would have been 
charged a lower premium  for a renewal  in 2018  it should refund the extra he paid.       
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited needs to:
refund  Mr V £350  charged for the second  excess,
amend claims records to show only one claim,
pay Mr V any extra  premium  he paid for a 2018 renewal due to having two claims 
recorded rather than one and
add simple interest at 8% to the above amounts from the date Mr V paid the excess  
and extra premium   to the date of settlementi. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
i HM Revenue & Customs  requires Liverpool Victoria Insurance  Company Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company  Limited must give Mr V a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN0598542