K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS)  failed to remove a charge  on his 
commercial property when he repaid a loan in 2007.
background
Mr W took out a loan some years  ago with Birmingham Midshires (subsequently taken over 
by BOS), which was secured on his commercial property. The loan was repaid  in 
December 2007.
Mr W sold his property in December 2017,  but the funds from the sale could not be released  
by the solicitor as a charge remained on the property from the loan he had repaid  in 2007. 
This resulted in a three-month delay in the completion of sale,  which  Mr W said caused him 
a significant amount of distress and inconvenience,  as well as financial  loss. He says that he 
was required to use his overdraft and credit card up to their maximum limits while waiting for 
the charge to be removed. 
BOS explained  that following the merger of organisation, Crown  Mortgages (which used to 
be part of Birmingham Midshires) became  external to Lloyds Banking Group, which meant  
that they had to contact the third-party organisation first to obtain their authority to release 
the security, which unfortunately delayed  matters. BOS apologised for the charge not being 
removed in 2007 and paid a total £2,101.97 to Mr W, which was made up of:
£600 to cover additional solicitor  costs;
£174.67 to cover credit card interest fees;
£104.47 to cover overdraft fees on his personal account;
£683.83 (net) to cover the loss of interest on £65,000;
£39 to cover the cost of phone calls; and
£500 in total to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr W accepted the payments covering  his consequential losses but felt that the £500 
compensation was not commensurate  to the distress and inconvenience that had been 
caused. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, as he considered that the compensation offered  
by BOS was fair in the circumstances. Mr W disagreed, so the matter  has been passed  to 
me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
Mr W submits that by delaying the removal of the charge on his commercial  property, they 
have caused a significant level of distress and inconvenience. BOS  have  offered  a total of 
£500 compensation to recognise the impact of their failing, but Mr W does not feel this is 
commensurate to the experience he has had. The power to make  such an award is provided 
for in DISP  Rule 3.7.2  of the Financial Conduct  Authority Handbook, which sets out that I 
can award fair compensation for distress or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But 
Ref: DRN05196892such an award must be a proportionate reflection of the impact that a businesss actions  (or 
inactions) have had.
Ive considered the impact this incident  had on Mr W, and its clear  that this time was 
extremely stressful for him and his family.  I can see, for example, that it put a significant 
short-term strain on his business that required him to borrow  the maximum amount on his 
credit card and overdraft. And I can see that he has been left frustrated by the amount  of 
time and effort  it took for the charge  to be removed. 
But I have to consider  whether, in the circumstances, the compensation awarded so far is 
proportionate to the distress and inconvenience suffered. And in order to award further  
compensation to Mr W, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions of BOS have 
had a greater  impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which I cant  say it has in 
these circumstances.
I appreciate the experience wouldve been  entirely frustrating. But I can see that BOS sought  
to have the charge removed as soon  as the matter  was brought  to their attention, which  
unfortunately took longer  due to Crown Mortgages  being a separate  business that they had 
to contact to arrange  for the removal of the security. I appreciate that the corporate structure 
of BOS and their subsidiaries will be of little concern  to Mr W, and I accept that the 
responsibility falls squarely with BOS in these  circumstances,  who should have ensured the 
charge was removed  when  the loan was repaid. But I can see that they have ensured Mr W 
has not been financially disadvantaged  by seeking to cover  all his consequential losses  
caused by the charge remaining on the property,  and that they sought to arrange its removal 
as soon as they reasonably could.
So I do not think that any further  compensation at a higher level is warranted, and I consider 
the £500 offered by BOS  to be fair compensation in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0519689