K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays  Bank UK Plc wont refund two payments made using his 
Barclays debit card. He says he neither  made nor authorised them.   
background
Mr Ws card was used  to make two payments to what appeared to be a bar and a restaurant 
in Tokyo. They were  made in the early hours of the morning, when, Mr W says, he was at 
home (in Tokyo) asleep. The total amount spent was over £6,800. He noticed  the payments  
a few days later and contacted Barclays to say that he didnt  recognise  them.
Barclays looked into things but didnt agree that it should make refunds. It initially  said that, 
in both cases, the cards chip had been  read and the correct PIN used.  It later corrected that 
and said that, whilst  the chip in the card had been read, the payments had been signed for. 
Mr W asked Barclays  to provide copies of the signatures and details of the establishments  
where the card was used. It wasnt able to do so, however. It maintained  its position  though  
the genuine card had been used; since Mr W had said he had the card with him at all times, 
the bank didnt think someone  else had taken it and used it without Mr Ws knowledge.  
Mr W referred his complaint to this service and one of our investigators considered it. She 
concluded however that Barclays was correct in saying that the genuine  card had been used 
to make the payments and that it was therefore  more likely than not that Mr W had 
authorised them. 
Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings  and asked that an ombudsman  review them.        
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
First of all, having  examined the banks records of the transactions, Im satisfied that the chip 
in the card was read on each occasion. Im also satisfied that, contrary  to what  Barclays 
initially said,  the PIN was not used. 
The fact that the chip was read is a very strong indication  that the genuine card was used  to 
make the payments. Mr W has referred  to some academic  research that claims to highlight  
vulnerabilities in chip and PIN technology.  Im familiar with the articles  published as a result  
of that research. They say, however, that one of the main area of vulnerability is that most 
payment cards still have  a magnetic  stripe as well as a chip. The stripe  is relatively  easy to 
copy to another  card.  But thats not a vulnerability  that was exploited here, since  the 
transactions werent made by reading  information  from a magnetic stripe; that information  
was obtained  from a chip. Its most unlikely therefore Mr Ws card was cloned  or copied, as 
hes suggested. I think its more  likely  that the genuine card was used. 
Mr W has also referred to research from the same source and to an exercise  in which  it was 
possible to bypass the PIN. Again,  Im familiar with the report to which he refers.  Its true that 
the researchers  were  able to create a way of bypassing  a PIN under test conditions, so as to 
lead a retailer to think the correct PIN had been entered.  Its less clear though whether the 
card issuers  systems  would  show that the PIN had been used. But in this case  Barclays 
Ref: DRN07740242doesnt now suggest that the PIN was used, so I dont think thats  relevant  to Mr Ws 
complaint. 
Its unfortunate that Barclays hasnt been  able to provide copies of the signatures. I dont 
however believe  they would  be conclusive.  Its relatively easy  to copy  a signature,  just as it is 
to disguise one or to remove  one from a card. 
As I say, though,  I am satisfied that Mr Ws genuine card was used to make the payments. 
He says it wasnt missing at any time, and I note he used two days  later.  In the 
circumstances, its very unlikely that anyone could have taken his card, used it at night to 
make two payments  and then been able to return it without Mr W noticing. 
For these reasons, I think the most  likely explanation is that Mr W made  the payments 
himself or allowed someone else to do so. Either way, it wouldnt be fair to require  Barclays  
to make a refund.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK Plc to do anything  further  to 
resolve Mr Ws complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0774024