K822xcomplaint
Mrs W has complained to Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (Clydesdale) about the 
way it has dealt with a claim she made under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 
(s.75).
background 
In 2012 Mrs W entered into an agreement with a company called  Solarking  UK for the supply 
and installation of a solar panel  system.   The cost of the system was £8,499 and after paying  
the deposit by card,  Mrs W paid the balance  of £6,375 using a loan from Clydesdale (t/a 
Barclays Partner Finance) that was arranged by Solarking. 
Mrs W says she purchased the solar panels as Solarking  told her they would pay for 
themselves through energy savings and receiving feed-in-tariff  (FIT) payments  by selling 
excess energy back to the grid.
Represented by a claims management company (CMC), Mrs W made a s.75 claim to 
Clydesdale.  She said the system was misrepresented to her as the solar  panels havent 
generated the savings and income she was led to believe.
Solarking is no longer  trading,  but under s.75 Clydesdale is responsible  for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  to the same  extent  as the supplier of the solar 
panels.  
Clydesdale reviewed the claim but calculated that the solar panels would likely generate 
more benefits  over the 10-year term of the loan than the cost of the system.  So,  it concluded 
there was no redress to pay.  As  Mrs W remained unhappy, the CMC referred the complaint  
to our Service.
One of our investigators  looked into things and initially concluded that Clydesdale had acted  
reasonably in making its calculation.  But the CMC  disagreed and responded with further 
points for consideration.
A different investigator reviewed everything  again and Clydesdale  reconsidered its position 
in relation to Mrs Ws complaint.  It carried out a new calculation  based upon the 
recommendations of an industry expert   on how to make the system self-funding.  The  
calculation resulted in an offer of compensation for Mrs W, which  included  £100 for the 
trouble and upset  she had experienced.  The  total offer as at March 2020 was £261.24.
Mrs W didnt accept the offer. The CMC  said that they felt the system was so badly mis-sold 
to them  that the offer was too low to reflect that.  They  also highlighted that both 
Clydesdales calculations  had been based  upon  the judgement of industry experts and 
resulted in different outcomes.  So, Mrs W questions the credibility  of those  industry experts 
and whether her losses are reflected accurately  by the calculations.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  passed to me for a fresh  review  
and decision  to be made.
Ref: DRN06953962my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for much  the same reasons.
Under s.75 its necessary for there  to be an unbroken  relationship between the debtor (Mrs 
W), the creditor (Clydesdale) and the supplier (Solarking UK).  Im satisfied that relationship  
exists and this has not been disputed between the parties.
Having considered everything  I think its likely  Mrs W was told the solar  panels would 
generate sufficient benefits  through energy  savings  and FIT payments to cover  the cost of 
the system  and that it would continue  to provide benefits beyond the term of the loan.  Im 
aware this was a common sales inducement for solar panel systems at the time and its 
consistent with what Ive seen in similar  cases also. 
Im aware Mrs W says she thought  the system would be paid off in 6-7 years from the 
benefits received,  but Ive seen nothing  that confirms this to be the case.  The  loan term was 
10 years  and so to be self-funding the system would need  to cover the cost over that same  
10-year period.  So, on balance, I think its likely thats what  Mrs W ought to have reasonably 
expected.
The system hasnt produced the benefits required  to pay for the loan over 10 years  so 
given thats what  I think Mrs W ought to have expected, I think  it was likely misrepresented 
to her.  That being the case, the key issue for me to decide is what  the impact of the 
misrepresentation is and what  fair compensation is..
fair compensation
Ive thought about what I think  Mrs W might have  done if the system were not 
misrepresented.  Its possible had she known the system wouldnt pay for itself over the loan 
term she may not have  gone ahead with the agreement. 
However, the system  does work, just not quite  to the level of performance Mrs W was 
expecting.  So, I think it would be disproportionate  to ask Clydesdale to unwind the 
agreement and uninstall the solar panels.   It was represented to Mrs W that the system 
would be self-funding, and so I believe  the fair and reasonable way to put things  right is for 
Clydesdale to compensate Mrs W to make the system self-funding.
Clydesdale has accepted that approach and calculated what it considers to be appropriate  
redress.  Having reviewed  its methodology  Im satisfied thats a fair calculation,  but note it 
will need  to be updated to be refreshed as at the date of this decision.
Im aware Mrs W has questioned Clydesdales use of industry  expert reports to base its 
calculation on.  But Im satisfied its reasonable for it to have used those expert  
recommendations, and the approach is in line with what this Service would suggest.
I agree  that Clydesdale should make an additional payment of £100 to Mrs W to reflect  the 
trouble and upset  shes  experienced  as a result of Clydesdale  not resolving the s.75 claim 
when it first had the opportunity to.
Ref: DRN06953963So overall, I believe that the latest  offer put to Mrs W by Clydesdale  is fair and reasonable, 
but it will need to be refreshed to make  the calculation up to date. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint against Clydesdale  Financial  Services  
Limited.
To put things right, Clydesdale should pay the fair compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 October  2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0695396