K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about the total loss settlement sum MCE Insurance  Company Limited 
paid when he made a claim under his motorcycle insurance policy. 
background
Mr B bought a motorbike  insurance policy with MCE. He changed his bike on 1 September  
2018. He bought a brand new one with a 68 plate. 
On 2 September 2018 Mr B was involved in an incident with a car. He was injured and his 
motorbike was unfortunately declared  a total loss. It had travelled 54 miles.  
MCE said it would settle Mr Bs claim by paying  him a market  value of £11,889. This was 
£1,706 lower than the purchase price  Mr B had paid for it the day before the incident. 
Our investigator didnt  think MCE had been reasonable. He thought Mr Bs proof  of what he 
paid for his bike the day before the incident  was sufficient  evidence to show the market value 
of his bike immediately  before  the loss. So he recommended MCE pay Mr B the purchase 
price he paid for his bike from a dealership  garage the day before the incident  and add 
interest.
MCE didnt agree. So the case has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. 
We dont decide  a valuation for a bike. But we look at whether an insurer has reached  its 
valuation in a fair and reasonable way  and in line with the policy.  
Mr Bs policy  with MCE says the most it will pay in the event of a total loss claim is the 
market value of his bike immediately prior to the loss. 
MCE says it was able to obtain  a valuation guide  from two of the motor trade guides. It says 
the valuations  for a 68 plate motorbike was lower  than for a 18 plate bike.  So it used both 
guides to decide a valuation for Mr Bs bike. 
Ive seen a copy  of one of the valuation guides - C - which  MCE appears  to have relied on. 
It gave a valuation  of £11,150 for September 2018.  This was lower  than its valuation  for an 
18 plate. However,  the guide reads:
we could  not value  the vehicle at the exact plate requested. This valuation is a 2018 18 
plate at 60 miles. 
Mr B has provided a copy of the purchase receipt  for his bike which  shows  he paid £13,595 
inclusive of VAT on 1 September 2018  the day before the incident.  
Ref: DRN06552712It seems  the trade guides were unable to provide an accurate valuation for Mr Bs bike as it 
was brand new and a brand new plate.  So I think  - in this case  - the amount Mr B paid for his 
bike the day before at a dealership garage  carries more weight in deciding  a fair market  
value for Mr Bs bike immediately prior to the loss. And so I think its the evidence  MCE 
should have relied on to decide a fair total loss settlement in September 2018. 
MCEs initial settlement offer to Mr B for his bike was £11,145. So the difference between  
MCEs first offer and the price he paid for his bike is £2,450.  I think MCE should pay interest  
on the difference of £2,450 from the date of the claim to the date it pays  Mr B the balance.  
Had Mr B accepted the initial  valuation, he was still deprived of the benefit of a fair market 
value for his bike. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
MCE Insurance Company Limited  to do the following:
Pay Mr B £1,706 as the difference between the final settlement it paid him of 
£11,889 and the market value  settlement of £13,595. 
Pay interest at a simple rate of 8% a year on £2,450   being the difference  
between the lower offer of £11,145 and £13,595  from the date of the claim to 
the date it pays  Mr B. 
MCE Insurance Company Limited  must  pay the award within 28 days  of the date on which 
we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the award from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a simple rate of 8% a 
year.
If MCE Insurance Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs 
to withhold income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should  
also give Mr B a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before15 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0655271