K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about a mortgage  valuation carried  out for Bank  of Scotland  
plc (trading as Halifax) in January 2017.  They  say the valuer failed to identify that the 
property was damp. As a result, they want Halifax to pay the cost of remedying this, which  is 
approximately £13,000.
background
Mr and Mrs P were  buying a property  with the assistance of a mortgage  from Halifax. They 
paid for a basic valuation. This meant  that the valuer  was assessing whether or not the 
property was suitable security for the mortgage loan. It was not a detailed  report on the 
condition of the property, nor a structural survey.
The valuation was carried  out by a business  I will call C, which  was at the time part of the 
Halifax group of companies. C is no longer  associated with Halifax,  and is no longer  a 
member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS).
The valuer inspected  the property on 6 January  2017. No mention is made in the valuation 
report of dampness at the property. The purchase completed on 31 March 2017.
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs P contacted Halifax to complain that the property was 
suffering from damp. They provided  a specialist report and said that the cost of putting things 
right was going to be about £13,000, which they expected Halifax to pay. Mr and Mrs P say 
that the damp should have been  picked up on the valuation  report.
Halifax didnt uphold  the complaint. Halifax said that the valuation  complied  with Halifaxs 
requirements, and was for its own purposes. The valuer had tested for dampness but had 
not found any at the property. 
Halifax also thought  that if the property had been damp to the extent now claimed at the time 
of the inspection, or when Mr and Mrs P first took up occupation in March 2017,  they would 
have said something  about this at the time.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mr and Mrs P complained to us. An investigator looked at 
the complaint,  but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs P disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive read everything provided  by 
Mr and Mrs P and Halifax and have given consideration  to everything both parties have  said.
Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr and Mrs P; Im not upholding 
their complaint. These  are my reasons.
The issue  in this complaint is quite simple:  Mr and Mrs P say that Halifaxs valuer failed to 
identify dampness at the property on 6 January 2017. 
The estate  agents  photographs from the time the property  was marketed are still online and 
these show the property, although over 100 years old, to have been modernised  and 
Ref: DRN05190422decorated to a good standard. It was fully furnished and indeed the valuer reported this to be 
the case on 6 January  2017.
The valuation report was solely for Halifax to decide  if the property was adequate security for 
the mortgage advance.  The valuer was required to note down  any obvious defects or 
damage that would  affect the propertys  value. The condition of the property is observed and 
visible issues like damp, electrical  problems and obvious structural damage are highlighted, 
if present.
The valuer completed a site report in accordance with Halifaxs terms of reference, from 
which I note the following:
the property  had a damp-proof course;
no visible dampness was reported;
there was no evidence from readings taken on 6 January 2017 of dampness at the 
property.
The available evidence does not persuade me that there was dampness at the property on 
6 January 2017. I say this because, if there  had been, Im satisfied it would  have been  
reported by the valuer. 
Ive also read the report provided by Mr and Mrs Ps builder, who inspected  the property  on 
23 October 2018, which is 21 months after the valuation was carried  out. 
Whilst this report identified dampness  to the property  in October 2018, the possible reasons 
suggested for this all relate to factors which were not within  the scope of the basic  valuation  
chosen by Mr and Mrs P. For example, possible reasons given is the state of the cavity wall 
insulation, or salt dampness inside a chimney structure. Neither  of those things would be 
inspected during a basic  valuation. The report also confirmed that the installed damp-proof 
course had not been compromised.
In the circumstances, given that there  was no evidence  of dampness on 6 January 2017, I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to order Halifax  to pay the cost of the remedial work 
claimed by Mr and Mrs P.
As stated above, C, the firm of surveyors which carried out the valuation, is no longer a part 
of the Halifax  group,  or a member of RICS, but it will have a complaints process to handle 
complaints from its clients. In relation to this valuation, I understand that it was Halifax  which  
was Cs client, rather than Mr and Mrs P. But if they decided not to accept this final decision, 
it will not be legally binding and Mr and Mrs P will be free to contact C if they want to raise  a 
complaint direct with C, or to pursue their complaint  in court, should they wish to do so. I 
would suggest  Mr and Mrs P might want to take legal advice before embarking on any legal 
action.
my final decision
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed,  but my decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 February  2020.
Ref: DRN05190423Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0519042