K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr G bought the policy in connection  with a credit  card that he took out some time between
1988 and 2000. Lloyds  cant say for sure whether  the PPI was added  to the account at the
same time as Mr G applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr G applied for his card sometime between 1988 and 2000 and its possible that he
bought PPI at the same  time. But Lloyds doesnt  know for sure if this is the case. Ive
not seen anything to suggest  the PPI was taken out after the card. So I think its most
likely Mr G bought the PPI at the same time as applying for his credit  card.
Mr G says he didnt know the PPI had been added  to his account,  and that he
wouldnt have agreed to buy it. I cant be sure what was discussed  between Mr G 
and Lloyds when  the policy was sold, and the documents from the point of sale are 
no longer available. Thats not surprising  as its many years since the policy  was 
sold. Im also mindful that exact recollections  of what happened can fade over time. 
Although I accept it is possible PPI wasnt discussed, it is equally likely it was  
although I can understand why Mr G may no longer remember this.
Without anything  else to support what Mr G has told me, I havent  been able to safely  
conclude that Lloyds didnt make him aware that the PPI was optional.
Lloyds accepts that it probably  recommended  the PPI to Mr G, but it doesnt look as if
it was unsuitable  for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Even though  Mr G was self-employed,  this would not have prevented  him from 
making a successful unemployment claim  on the policy. And this wouldnt be any 
more difficult than it would be for someone  who was employed.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But its unlikely Mr G would have been affected by any of the main
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it.
Ref: DRN03565992my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0356599