K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about seven payday  loans Quick Quid provided  to Mr M from 
February 2010 onwards. Mr Ms last loan was provided in May 2011. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought that loans six and seven 
shouldnt have been given. 
Quick Quid disagreed with our adjudicators  view.  As the parties havent been able to agree 
on a resolution the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr M could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks  
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN01152082Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr M, I think  that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mr M was unlikely to have been  able to make 
his loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan six. I say this 
because:
by this stage, Mr M was into his ninth  month  of owing Quick  Quid  money. In my view, 
Mr Ms loan history  up until this point was in itself a clear demonstration of his 
inability to settle his loans  over the life of the credit agreement. 
Mr M was provided with a seventh loan on the day he eventually  settled his sixth one. 
Quick Quid agreed  a larger amount for loan seven even though Mr Ms late fees and 
apparent arrangement  to pay, suggested he struggled to repay loan six.  So  
Quick Quid ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr M was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole the repayment  of his previous loan left in his finances  
and that Mr Ms indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably. 
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads into what he owed Quick Quid and his 
indebtedness was being prolonged for an extended  period of time. Loan seven was 
provided fifteen months after Mr Ms first. And it was for almost nine times the 
amount of Mr Ms first loan. This meant  that Mr M paid large amounts of interest  to, in 
effect, service a debt to Quick  Quid over an extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out because Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time Mr M owed Quick Quid  money was likely  to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding the complaint and Quick Quid  should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loan six and seven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr M owed  Quick Quid money  means that any information  still 
recorded about loans and seven is adverse.  So all entries about these loans (where  
they remain) should be removed from Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ms complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN01152083Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0115208