K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Woolwich)  mis-sold her a 
single premium payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy  when she took out a loan in 
2000.
background
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint, stating that Barclays had failed to disclose to Mrs M 
the interest payable on the element of the loan that was taken out to pay for the PPI single 
premium.
Barclays disagreed  with these findings.  Whilst accepting that it was no longer able to provide 
a copy of the actual  loan agreement Mrs M was provided with, it has referred to a sample  
agreement it had submitted in respect  of this complaint. Barclays  considers that this 
demonstrates that Mrs M would have been provided with a clear breakdown of the costs 
relating to the policy. Barclays has also commented  that the loan agreement with PPI on it 
would only have been produced after its adviser  had discussed  PPI with Mrs M.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Barclays advised Mrs M to take out PPI. It therefore  had to take reasonable steps  to ensure 
the advice it gave was suitable. It also had to give clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the PPI so that Mrs M could make  a properly informed choice. This included  Barclays 
explaining the costs of the policy to Mrs M, including that the premium  was being paid for by 
adding it to the loan, and that this would have  interest added to it over the whole term of the 
loan. Barclays also needed  to show Mrs M the total cost of the policy, including  interest over 
the loan term.
Barclays no longer  has a copy of the actual credit agreement signed  by Mrs M. It has 
provided a sample  loan agreement. However,  I note that this is dated after the date that Mrs 
M took out PPI. I cannot be certain about  what information Mrs M was told by the adviser  
when sold the policy. However on balance, bearing  in mind that the sample  agreement  post-
dates the sale,  my view is that it would  not be reasonable to rely on this document  to 
demonstrate what information Mrs M was given about the cost of the PPI policy.
This being the case, overall  my view is that Barclays has not shown that it was made clear to 
Mrs M at the point of sale what the total cost of the policy was, including  the fact that the 
premium was charged as a loan, with its own interest being added  to the main loan.
Ive thought about whether Mrs M would  have taken out the policy  if Barclays had properly 
told her about its costs. The PPI premium  was £1,436.27, with the personal  loan itself being 
£9,500. The loan was to run over a five year term. In my view, the interest  payable  on the 
PPI premium over this term would have  significantly increased the costs  that Mrs M was 
going to incur. Had these  interest costs been  made  clear to Mrs M, I consider  that she would 
not have chosen to take the policy. I have therefore  decided to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN07344282fair compensation
Barclays has said that the loan taken out by Mrs M in 2000 (Loan 1) with PPI added to it 
was in a chain with a further loan (Loan 2). Loan 2 did not have  PPI attached  to it. However,  
my understanding is that the second loan may have included a residual cost relating to the 
PPI taken out with Loan 1 in 2000.
Mrs M borrowed extra to pay for the PPI in 2000, so Loan 1 was bigger than it should have 
been, and this may have led Loan  2 to also have been bigger. She paid more  than she 
should have done each  month and it cost her more to repay the loans than it would  
otherwise have done. Mrs M therefore needs to get back the extra  that shes paid.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
work out and pay the difference between what Mrs M  paid each month  under Loans  1 
and 2, and what  she would have paid each  month  if PPI hadnt been added  to Loan 1.
 
add simple interest at 8% a year to the extra amounts Mrs M paid from when  she paid 
them until when she gets them  back.
if Mrs M made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays Bank  UK PLC can take 
off what she got for the claim from the amount  it owes  her. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays Bank  UK PLC to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Mrs M fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0734428