K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Callcredit Limited  (trading as TransUnion) is reporting incorrect 
information on his credit file.
background
Mr H says that a credit  card account was fraudulently opened in his name.  Hes unhappy 
that this is being reported  on his credit file because hes had a letter from the credit card 
provider confirming that the account  has been  cancelled. Mr H says the entry on his credit 
file has affected  his credit rating leaving him unable  to obtain a mortgage.
Mr H first contacted TransUnion in March 2018 to complain about  the entry. TransUnion 
raised a data dispute and contacted the credit card provider. In June 2018  the credit  card 
provider advised  TransUnion that there was nothing to suggest that the account wasnt  
linked to Mr H and that if he believed the account  had been  created fraudulently  he should 
contact the credit card providers fraud  services  team.
Mr H contacted the credit card provider. In October  2018 it sent him a letter confirming that 
the account had been cancelled.
In October  2018 Mr H complained to TransUnion again. TransUnion advised  Mr H that the 
credit car provider hadnt authorised any amendments to the information  reported on his 
credit file.
Mr H was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.  He wants  TransUnion 
to remove the information  from his credit  file.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that TransUnion  was reporting the 
information which had been passed to it by the credit card company and wasnt able to 
change it without express authority from the credit  card company.
Mr H didnt agree. He felt that under data protection regulations TransUnion had a duty to 
ensure the data it reported was accurate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A credit reference agency such as TransUnion processes information about  an individual  in 
electronic form. It doesnt have sole data controller responsibility for all of the information 
which appears on a credit file. This is because when a lender signs  up to share  data with a 
credit reference agency, the majority of the information which appears on the credit file is not 
owned by the credit reference agency. The credit  reference agency  can best be described  
as a conduit through which information  owned  by various different organisations is reported 
about an individual. As such, the data cannot be amended by the credit  reference agency 
without the permission of the lender.
In Mr Hs case, the credit card provider is providing  the information which TransUnion is 
reporting. As Ive said above, TransUnion arent  able to amend that information  without 
authority from the credit  car provider.  The way in which this issue is generally dealt with 
Ref: DRN09461262(where a complaint has been made to the credit reference agency) is for the credit reference  
agency to raise a data dispute. Its then up to the credit card provider to investigate.
I can see that following  Mr Hs initial complaint in March 2018, TransUnion raised a data 
dispute. This is exactly what I would have  expected  it to do and Im satisfied it acted 
reasonably here. The response which TransUnion received from the credit  card provider at 
the time was that there was nothing to suggest that the account wasnt linked to Mr H.  
TransUnion continued to report  the information,  because it wasnt authorised  by the credit  
card company to amend  it. I cant say that TransUnion did anything wrong here.
I appreciate that Mr H has subsequently  received confirmation from the credit card provider 
that the account has been cancelled. However,  the fact that a card has been  cancelled 
doesnt mean that its payment information comes off a credit report  straightaway.  Closed 
accounts with zero balances and no associated  negative  information typically remain  on a 
credit history  for several years from the date they ware  reported closed. Most negative 
marks have a quicker expiration date.
I dont know the exact  details  of how the credit  card came to be opened in Mr Hs name or 
what level of transactions  took place on the account before it was cancelled.  This may be 
affecting the information which the credit card company is providing  about  the account.  
Ultimately, the only way to resolve the issue (and alter the information being  provided to the 
credit reference agencies) is for Mr H to raise a complaint with the credit card provider.  I 
understand that he is currently  pursuing such a complaint. 
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account Im unable to say that 
TransUnion has done anything wrong. I cant ask it to alter the information which is being 
provided by the credit  card company or amend Mr Hs credit file without authorisation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0946126