K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) misled him into believing his 
claim for legal expenses would be covered.
background 
Mr B holds a travel  insurance  policy with URV that includes cover  for legal expenses. He 
submitted a claim in September 2018  seeking to recover  the legal costs  hed incurred  after 
being arrested  overseas.  However, URV declined the claim as they said it was not covered 
under the terms  of the policy.
Mr B complained because  he said he had previously  spoken to URVs representative claim 
handlers over the phone, who had confirmed  that his claim would be covered and that he 
should pay for a solicitor  now and seek to claim it back later. As a result,  Mr B paid for a 
solicitor out of his own pocket to defend his case in court overseas, which he says he would 
not have done if he knew his claim would  not be covered.
URV considered the information Mr B had been given over the phone,  but they didnt think 
he had been mis-advised because the claims handler did not confirm  at any point that his 
claim would be covered, and even  said he was unsure whether the costs would be covered, 
but said that he could submit  a claim for consideration. 
Mr B disagreed and maintains he was misled  into spending money he thought he could 
claim back. As a result, he had to take out a high interest loan to cover  the costs,  and says 
that the service  he has received from URV has caused significant distress and 
inconvenience. So he complained to this service seeking to be compensated and his costs  
reimbursed. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She didnt  consider it would be fair to ask URV to 
reimburse Mr Bs legal costs, as it appeared he wouldve always incurred these costs. But 
she didnt think URV  had been  particularly  clear as to whether his claim would be covered or 
not, so she recommended  they pay £150  compensation.  Mr B disagreed and said he would 
not have instructed a solicitor, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Bs legal expenses policy will only cover  costs  incurred in 
pursuing claims for compensation and damages  due to your death or personal  injury. It also 
clearly excludes any claims related to the operation of law, or as a result  of an unlawful act 
or criminal  proceedings  against anyone included in your booking,  or any deliberate or 
criminal act by an insured person. 
Given that Mr B had been arrested and was seeking  assistance with his legal defence  costs,  
its clear that the circumstances  of his claim were  not covered  under the policy.  So the 
matter to be determined  is whether the actions of URV (and their agents) were such  that 
they should now be liable to cover  a claim that otherwise would have been excluded under 
the policy. 
Ref: DRN04397022Ive listened to the call Mr B had with URVs agent. Mr B explained the circumstances  of the 
arrest and that he had appointed an emergency  lawyer and was looking for assistance on 
how to release funds  to pay for it. The agent  said:
We wont  be able to release any funds Im afraid. We cant  just send any money as it would 
be required  to go through the claims process,  but I dont think  this sort of thing would be 
covered.
So the agent did explain that a claim would ultimately have to be assessed, and that he 
wasnt certain that Mr Bs claim  would be covered by the policy. However, the agent  went  on 
to say:
Right, because the claims process takes about a month  youd  have to pay and claim 
potentially. 
I appreciate this is not entirely clear.  But irrespective  of whether or not Mr B would have 
always paid for a solicitor,  I dont  think the conversation amounts to a guarantee that he 
would definitely  have his claim accepted, or that his legal costs  were bound to be 
reimbursed. It appears he was told to pay and claim  in the context  of the claim  still having  
go through URVs claim process  and with the agent also expressing  doubt as to whether it 
would ultimately be covered.  
When an insurer is first notified of a claim, the claims  advisors are rarely able to confirm 
whether it will be covered until theyve reviewed  all the necessary documentation and 
circumstances in line with the policy terms and conditions. And based  on what  was said on 
the phone, I dont think it was reasonable for Mr B to assume that his claim would definitely 
be covered and that his legal costs would be reimbursed.  So Im not persuaded that URV 
ought to now cover Mr Bs claim  that was otherwise excluded under the policy. 
However, I do agree that the agent could have been more explicit in his explanation, and 
that the way he told Mr B to pay his costs and claim later may have given  him false  hope that 
his claim may be accepted. I can also see that Mr B had to make a few calls at first and had 
difficulty getting through to the right person, which I can only imagine would have added to 
the distress he was feeling at the time. I also understand he was unhappy with the way that 
URV handled his data subject access request, which I appreciate could have been handled 
better. 
The investigator recommended  an award  of £150 compensation. And having considered the 
lack of clarity  surrounding the information  Mr B was given over the phone  as well as the 
other elements of poor service he received   I consider this to be fair compensation in the 
circumstances for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Union Reiseversicherung AG 
to pay £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Jack Ferris
Ref: DRN04397023ombudsman
Ref: DRN0439702