complaint
Miss C says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  when she took out 
a credit card in 2008 with Barclays Bank  UK PLC.
background
Miss C has already  been paid some money for the commission Barclays  received from selling 
her the PPI. However, our adjudicator who looked  at this case said the complaint about the 
PPI being mis-sold shouldnt be upheld.
Miss C disagreed  and still thinks she was mis-sold  the policy in the first place and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Having done this, Im not upholding  the complaint about the mis-sale.
Barclays records show that Miss C bought the PPI over the internet. We dont have access  to 
Miss Cs actual application form but given the type of sale,  and when it was, this isnt unusual.
However, weve seen  quite a few similar  sales to this and as a consequence  we have a good 
understanding of the procedures that were normally used. We know, for example, that 
consumers like Miss C would have had to either  agree to, or decline,  the PPI when they were 
making their way through  the on-line form before being allowed to finish  their application.
Theres no dispute Miss C was sold PPI, so I think its more  likely she agreed to the policy  
during the application  process.
Being an internet sale, I think its reasonable to say that Miss C would have worked through  
the application in her own time, without any advice  from Barclays. So it wasnt an advised 
sale and it was for Miss C to decide for herself whether or not she wanted  PPI. Barclays duty 
was to provide  clear enough information for her to make an informed choice.
I think Miss C was eligible for the cover which, at 79p per £100 of the outstanding credit  card 
balance, appears  to have  been an affordable charge. Miss C says she had sick pay already 
with her job and I agree  this was probably quite generous. But Im afraid this doesnt 
necessarily mean the policy wasnt of use. It could have reduced her credit card balance  by 
10% a month for up to a year in the event of a successful claim and this would have been in 
addition to any other means  she already  had. I therefore think  the policy was of value to her.
Ref: DRN0673746K820x#14I accept Barclays could  have probably done more to spell out some of the rules and 
exclusions, but I also think a lot of information  was provided. Miss C would have been able 
to access a menu of the policy rules  via a link on the screen.
So even if I accept Barclays could have been  clearer in certain aspects, I dont think Miss C 
would have done anything differently. I think the evidence shows  the PPI was something 
she chose to have.  And I think she probably  had access to information  that would have 
allowed her to make an informed choice.
This means  I dont  think Barclays has to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Miss C. Its 
already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to her because when the policy was sold it 
expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium). It should have  told Miss C about  that. Because it didnt, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium. I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold. So Barclays  Bank  UK PLC does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
Barclays Bank UK PLC has paid to Miss C the commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0673746