K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about Zenith Insurance plcs handling of his motor insurance claim.
background
Mr J was involved in an accident in September 2017  where he said another car went into the 
back of his. Mr J wanted  his car repaired but the repairing garage didnt offer him a courtesy 
car while the repairs were  being  done. Zenith said his policy had lapsed which meant  he 
wasnt entitled to a courtesy car and in any event the policy  didnt guarantee him one.
When his car hadnt been repaired by November 2017 Mr J complained  to Zenith.  He said 
he was unhappy  with the delay to his repairs and that he wasnt offered a courtesy car. He 
also said Zenith should have given him a new car instead of offering to repair his. Mr J 
complained that Zenith had raised  his renewal premium to £1,300  which he thought was too 
high.
While looking  into Mr Js complaint Zenith realised there was some confusion  about how it 
was dealing with his claim.  It said another insurer had told it Mr J was involved in another 
accident in February  2017. And as Mr J hadnt  told Zenith about that accident it hadnt 
realised there were two separate  claims.
Mr J said there should only be two claims recorded,  a previous one in December 2016  and 
the accident in September  2017. And he said both of those should be recorded as non-fault.
He didnt agree there should  be a claim recorded  from February 2017.
Zenith apologised for the confusion and accepted it hadnt communicated with him as well as 
it should have  done. It sent Mr J a cheque for £200 as compensation. Zenith said it didnt 
have to offer him a new car replacement as it thought  his was repairable.  It said it had 
arranged the repairs to Mr Js car but he wasnt entitled to a courtesy  car while they were 
being carried out. It said the claim  from December 2016 was recorded  as non-fault  but it was 
still looking  into who was to blame  for the accident  in September  2017 and the claim against
Mr J from February  2017.
While we were  looking  into things Zenith provided more  information to explain how the 
claims had impacted on Mr Js renewal. It also told us that the claim from February 2017 had 
been settled as a fault claim against Mr J and the claim from September 2017  had been 
closed as he hadnt gone ahead with the repairs.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 January 2019 where I explained  why I 
thought the £200  Zenith offered Mr J was enough to compensate for any distress and 
inconvenience it had caused him. In that decision  I said:
new car replacement
In the event of an accident the terms and conditions of Mr Js policy give Zenith the option of 
repairing his car, paying  to repair  what is lost or damaged,  or paying him an amount equal to 
the loss or damage. The policy also says Zenith  will replace the car with one of the same 
make and model if the car is less than 12 months  old and the repair cost is more  than 60% 
of the cost of buying an identical new car at the time of the damage.
Ref: DRN02650202Its for Zenith  to decide how to settle the claim. And as the cost of repairs  was £1,617.41  it 
was more cost effective to repair the car. Mr Js car was less than 12 months  old at the time 
of the accident  but repair  costs were less than 60% of the cost of buying a new car. So Mr J 
wasnt entitled to a new car under  the policy and I dont think Zenith had to provide him with 
one.
liability
Our service doesnt decide whos to blame  for an accident as thats the role of the courts.
Instead I look to see that the insurer (in this case Zenith) has acted fairly and reasonably.
Like most policies we see the terms and conditions of Mr Js policy  give Zenith  the right to 
takeover or settle a claim as it sees fit. This means it might make  a decision Mr J disagrees 
with but the policy allows it to. I consider  whether its done  so fairly and reasonably.
Zenith said its now settled the claim from February 2017 where the other  driver  said Mr Js 
car rolled  into a stationary  vehicle. The other driver was able to provide Mr Js details 
including his car and mobile  number. That meant it would  be thought most likely that Mr J 
was there.  And as his car had hit a parked vehicle hed be held at fault. Im satisfied this was 
a reasonable decision  in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
I understand Mr J hasnt gone  ahead with the repairs so Zenith has now closed the claim 
from September 2017 and reinstated Mr Js no claims discount. I think this is fair and
 reasonable given Mr J hasnt claimed.
delays
Ive looked at Zeniths call notes  to consider whether  there were delays to the repairs.  I can 
see when Mr J initially reported the accident he didnt want to claim on his policy. And Zenith 
told him it wouldnt be able to repair his car unless he claimed. The notes say Mr J called to 
say he wanted  to claim on 9 November 2017.  Mr J contacted Zenith  for an update on
13 November and Zenith chased  the garage for the information it needed on the same  day.
Mr J called Zenith on 20 November to ask for a courtesy car and it told him he wasnt entitled 
to one. As Mr J then complained about not having had his car repaired Zenith replied in
January 2018  and said it had now arranged the repairs. However Mr J decided  not to go 
ahead with the repairs as Zenith wouldnt provide  him with a courtesy car.
Zeniths accepted  it didnt  communicate well with Mr J about his repairs  and I agree with 
that. But it paid him £200 compensation for that as well as the confusion  between the two 
claims. Im satisfied £200 is enough, as I think Mr J had the opportunity to have his car 
repaired but chose  not to because he didnt have a courtesy car. And I dont think  thats 
Zeniths fault.
I understand Mr J feels Zenith  and the broker both blamed each other  for delays. In this 
decision I can only consider Zeniths actions.  But Zeniths already accepted it didnt 
communicate with him as well as it could have done. So I think its taken responsibility for 
that.
courtesy car
The terms and conditions  of Mr Js policy say hes entitled  to a courtesy car (subject to 
availability) while the approved repairer  fixes his car. The policy  doesnt  guarantee him a car 
Ref: DRN02650203and I can see from Zeniths  notes that the garage told Mr J it didnt have a car available  to 
give him while his was being  repaired.  Zenith also said Mr J wasnt  eligible for a courtesy car 
because his policy had lapsed in November 2017. I think  thats  reasonable as its in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
premium increase at renewal
Mr J said his premium  renewal had increased to £1,300 which  he thought was too high. Its 
not unusual for insurers to increase  premiums  when theres been  a claim. And, providing 
they treat people  fairly, we generally  take the view that insurers are free to decide how they 
want to take account  of factors that they think  increase risk when they calculate  premium.
Zenith has shown us that it applied its normal pricing criteria to Mr Js premium in the same  
way it would have  with anyone else in his situation.  So I think  it treated him fairly. And of 
course, Mr J had the option to buy a policy elsewhere, which he did.
I appreciate my decision will be a disappointment to Mr J but Im not going  to ask Zenith to 
do anything further.
Zenith accepted  my provisional findings  and Mr J didnt provide any further  comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr J nor Zenith has provided  any further comments  I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings.
my final decision
I understand Zenith Insurance plc has offered Mr J £200 compensation for his distress  and 
inconvenience. I conclude  thats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So my final 
decision is that Zenith Insurance plc should  pay Mr J £200 for his distress and 
inconvenience if it hasnt  already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN0265020