K820x#14complaint
G has made a complaint  that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt paid a settlement following a 
claim she made on her travel insurance  policy. 
background
G is unhappy that AXA hasnt settled a claim for a lost suitcase and dental treatment for both 
her and her daughter.  G says, in summary, shes provided enough information for the claim 
to be accepted.
AXA says it wants to establish whether the treatment fell within the scope of the policy. They  
said the work was extensive and they had no evidence  to suggest the treatment G and her 
daughter received was unforeseen, or as a result of an emergency. 
AXA issued a final response saying that they hadnt made a decision on the claim yet, but 
they wanted to interview G before they made a decision about the claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt uphold the complaint because 
she thought AXA was entitled  to validate the claim in the circumstances. 
G didnt agree. She wants AXA to pay her £150 000 compensation plus £2000 for her 
claims. So I need to make  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.  And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Gs policy says she is covered for:
Emergency dental  treatment for the immediate relief of pain and/or emergency 
repairs to dentures  or artificial teeth  carried  out solely to alleviate distress in eating up 
to a limit of £1000 incurred outside  your home area 
The intention of this section is to pay for emergency medical/ surgical/  dental  
treatment only and not for treatment or surgery  that can be reasonably  delayed  until 
your return  to your home area. 
Im not upholding this complaint because I dont  think AXA has treated G unfairly. I say that 
because:
It is Gs responsibility to prove  her claim is valid, not AXAs. So its for G to show  she 
has a valid claim and provide sufficient  evidence to support it. AXA wants to know  
more about the circumstances  of the treatment  and establish whether it falls within  
the scope of the policy terms Ive outlined above,  which  they are entitled to do; 
Ref: DRN07738552AXA is entitled to take reasonable steps  to validate the claim. I dont think  its 
unreasonable for AXA to invite G to an interview  as part of that process.  As Ive 
outlined above  they just want to understand more about the circumstances of the 
claim, which I think is fair;
G has referred to letters which our investigator shared with her, suggesting the claim 
had been accepted.  However, Im satisfied  with the explanation  AXA has provided on 
this point. Theyve explained that the claim was referred to the validations  team  so 
they could discuss  the claim in more detail with G and make any necessary further  
enquiries; 
Im aware that G also wants  to claim for medication and a suitcase. She doesnt have 
any receipts but has offered to send pictures.  AXA is happy to consider this aspect of 
the claim further, subject  to the validation process theyve outlined  to G, which I think  
is reasonable; 
Its a matter for G whether she wants to attend  the interview. But Id encourage her to 
do so if she wishes for her claim to be considered further. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Gs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask G to accept or reject my decision before  3 July 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0773855