K822xcomplaint
Ms K is unhappy with the way Admiral  Insurance Company Limited has dealt with her motor 
insurance policy.
background 
Ms K says she was involved  in an accident  that wasnt her fault. She says she didnt at any 
point tell Admiral she was at fault and it also wrongly  recorded the number of points on her 
licence. As a result shes questioned the premium she was charged  for her policy.
Admiral says Ms K provided the information about a fault claim through  a price comparison 
website. And the driving incident  code  she disclosed  would normally result  in three points  on 
her licence not the number shed said. It has changed the claim to a non fault one and 
arranged a refund of some premium to reflect  that.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. She said:
Admirals evidence  doesnt show Ms K told it shed had a fault incident. It shows she 
said it wasnt her fault. Admiral says it cannot be sure what  was input and the price  
comparison website isnt either.
It wasnt therefore fair for Admiral to tell Ms K shed provided information  that shed 
been in a fault incident and Admiral should  pay her £50 compensation for this.
But it appears the refund of premium Admiral  has made to Ms K is correct.
Admiral agreed to pay the £50 compensation.
Ms K doesnt think this is enough compensation. She says £100 is fair and has asked for an 
ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
The only outstanding issue is the amount of compensation Ms K should be paid. She would 
like £100 compensation for the time taken to resolve  matters  and for the inconvenience 
shes been caused. But I think that would  be too much.
All consumers spend some time and experience some additional  inconvenience  in dealing  
with a complaint  and putting things right. We wouldnt generally  recommend theyre  
compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can reasonably depart from this approach 
in this case.
Even so Ms K has been caused some distress and inconvenience by whats  happened.  
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I agree with the 
adjudicator that a payment of £50 compensation is fair for this. And I dont think I can 
reasonably ask Admiral  to pay any more as Ms K would like.
Ref: DRN05028592Overall I think  the adjudicators proposed  resolution of this complaint is fair and reasonable. 
And I dont  see any compelling reason to change  the proposed outcome or award of 
compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Admiral Insurance Company Limited should, if it 
hasnt done so already, pay Ms K £50 compensation. 
If it hasnt  done  so already Admiral must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date on 
which we tell it Ms K accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest* on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral  to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Ms K a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0502859