K821x#15complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the premiums she has been paying for her plumbing and drainage 
cover through Homeserve  Membership Limited  over a number of years
background
Mrs G first took out her policy  through Homeserve in 1998.  From 2005, when Homeserve 
first came under our jurisdiction, until the 2016 renewal, her premium  went  up from £65 to 
over £198,  an increase  of over 300%. She is elderly  and not in good  health. She didnt  think  
to query  the policy until her daughter  started  helping her with her finances and thought she 
was being substantially overcharged. She contacted Homeserve to cancel her policy.  In 
response it offered  her a reduction to £133 and then a further reduction to £95 for the year. 
Mrs G raised a formal complaint. Homeserve then offered her a policy  at an introductory rate 
of £12 rising to £96 for the following year. Mrs Gs daughter found the same policy  online for 
£6 and Homeserve agreed to refund £6.
Mrs G felt she had been  grossly overcharged and taken  advantage of. Homeserve replied 
that its premium increases reflected changes to business costs,  increased investments in the 
service and claims history. It offered  introductory discounts to attract  new customers.  Mrs G 
would have been free to cancel the policy at any time if she had been unhappy with the 
price. Its view is that the price and any discounts offered are business  decisions.
Our adjudicator thought that Homeserves renewal information was aimed  at the customer 
not querying the price. He said that the information  couldnt fairly be described as clear,  fair 
and not misleading.  He also thought that Homeserve hadnt taken account of Mrs Gs 
vulnerability. This was especially so where Homeserve clearly had a policy available  for less 
than half the price. He said Homeserve should  refund a proportion of the premiums  from 
2010 to 2015 plus interest. He further said it should pay her £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused.
Homeserve said it did take account of customers vulnerabilities  and that its information 
complied with The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA)  Principles for Businesses and the 
rules contained  in the Insurance:  Conduct of Business  Sourcebook (ICOBS). It pointed  out 
that it wasnt obliged  by those rules to advise the consumer that they can shop around until 
the 2017 addition to the rules.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont quote here the rules that I have applied, as our adjudicator has clearly  set them out. 
But essentially I have to consider whether the renewal  information sent by Homeserve each 
year was clear, fair and not misleading. And that Homeserve didnt take advantage of the 
potential vulnerability  of the customer.
I have looked  at the information provided in each years renewal letter from the 2010  until the 
2016 renewals.  In that time the renewal  price went up from £105 to £198, essentially  an 
Ref: DRN01902382increase of 90%. I think on the whole the renewal letters are geared  towards encouraging 
the customer not to query the renewal. I have noted the following issues:
For the 2010 and 2011 renewals the top of the letter has a large red stamp type logo 
which says NO ACTION REQUIRED. The cost went up by 22% in 2011.
The 2011 renewal  said In the current economy, you want to make sure you are 
getting value for money from your insurance  policy. implying in my view that the 
policy was offering good value for money.
The same  renewal  gave no telephone  number  for Customer Service  although at the 
foot of page 5 theres a number  to call if the customer wanted  to cancel.
The 2012 renewal  increased the price by 23% and added extra electrical cover with 
no apparent option  to remove  it.
For the 2013 renewal  there is offered an option  to cancel the extra electrical cover 
(on page  8) although it explains there  will be no refund of premium.
For 2014 the premium  went up by 5% from the previous year.  But the electrical  cover  
was removed. I cant see any explanation for this, nor does it appear to have been 
explained that this was a temporary  cover. It did add new areas of cover to plumbing 
and drainage. For the first time, as far as I can see, the letter said If you have any 
queries about  your renewal or need to make  any changes  call us on ...
The 2015 renewal  didnt mention calling Homeserve about  the terms of the renewal  
but merely said to contact  it if theres a problem, which I read as meaning a claim 
rather than an issue with the policy.
The 2016 renewal  said If you have any questions regarding  your policy or to make a 
claim call 
The policy covered  shared  drainage  up until October 2011 when the water  company 
(thorough whom  the policy is offered) took over responsibility. The premium didnt go 
down. This information wasnt  highlighted at all in the renewal letters until the 2015 
renewal, when it appeared as part of a list of exclusions.
Also I think  overall, the way the letters are set out, encourages the consumer to relax  
because their cover was continuing. It highlighted the benefits of the policy but, apart from 
the places I have highlighted above,  doesnt encourage the consumer to get in contact, even 
though if they had done so they could have been  offered a substantial  discount. I think  there 
was a need for Mrs G to get in touch  and by effectively discouraging her from doing so, this 
meant Mrs G couldnt be told that there were other policies that may have been available  to 
her from Homeserve that would have been cheaper. Or that there were discounts on this 
policy that she could  take advantage of.
This brings  me onto the question of vulnerability.  Mrs G clearly  is vulnerable  although in 
fairness Homeserve wouldnt have known about  her health problems. But its likely that it 
would have known  her age and the fact that throughout  the time she had had a policy with it, 
she never engaged with it over the price.  This is part of what  our adjudicator referred  to as 
an "inequality of knowledge. So far as Mrs G was aware she was getting a competitively 
priced policy which covered her needs.  I dont think she needed any extra  help in 
understanding the policy or its renewal terms. Its just that the way the letters  were  drawn  up 
werent clear  and were  in my view misleading, for the reasons I have set out.
Even when  she did complain, Mrs G was offered  a discount which still brought the policy 
cost to over £30 more  than the price of the policy if bought by a new customer, taking  off any 
introductory discount.
Ref: DRN01902383I understand that Homeserve has to cover its costs  and make a profit.  We asked it for details 
of its pricing structure,  policy increases for similar customers and the reasons for such  
increases. We would have treated this information  confidentially. It has only supplied  details 
of the then current costs  for half a dozen customers it says are in a similar position to Mrs G.
Homeserve has in response to our adjudicators  view interpreted  this as our criticising it for 
not treating Mrs G as being vulnerable. Although  as Ive set out, that is a small part of it. It 
also has pointed out that it wasnt until 2017 that it was required by the FCA to tell customers 
that they can shop  around for a better  price.  But I dont think this is a case  of Mrs G not 
being able to shop around. Homeserve clearly  has had (as far as I know)  an identical 
product for less than half the price  Mrs G has been  paying, at least since  2010. It may well 
have been less than £96 in previous  years. It hasnt  made any effort to tell her about this. 
And has continued to put her price up annually.
So rather  than her shopping around, what she needed to know about was the availability of 
the alternative policy so she could make  an informed decision as to whether to continue  her 
policy at the price offered. The price she was offered seems to have  been  significantly more 
than what the new policy providing equivalent, or indeed superior, cover was available for. 
So I think that by Homeserve effectively misleading Mrs G into staying on the legacy policy 
and continuing  to increase her price each  year, Homeserve took advantage of her. Thats  
not treating a customer fairly-  which is something  that Homeserve is required to do by the 
regulatory rules, and always has been, for many years prior to the introduction  of the 
transparency at renewal  rules in 2017.
I think the fair resolution for this complaint  is for Homeserve to refund to Mrs G the difference 
between the present price of £96, which coincidentally is the price charged in 2009 and the 
price that she paid for the 2010  to 2015  renewals  inclusive. Homeserve should add simple 
interest at 8% from the time that she paid each monthly instalment until the date it pays  her.
I think Homeserve should also pay £100 for the inconvenience and upset caused to Mrs G. 
.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Homeserve Membership Limited to:
refund  to Mrs G the differences between £96 and the premiums she paid for the 2010 
to 2015 renewals inclusive together with simple interest* at 8% a year from the date 
she paid each monthly instalment until the date it repays her.
pay £100 compensation to Mrs G for the inconvenience and upset caused to her.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Homeserve to take tax off any interest  it pays  to 
Mrs G. Should  Mrs G request it, Homeserve should  give Mrs G a certificate showing 
how much  tax it has taken off so she can reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0190238