K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold  her mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Briefly:
In 2003 Miss D took out a PPI policy at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. Both things 
happened in a branch  meeting.
The policy provided  protection for Miss Ds mortgage payments in the event she couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out for up to 12 
months per claim and it cost just under £21 a month.
At the time of the sale Miss D was employed and she said she was entitled to six months  
sick pay. She said she had some  savings she couldve use to make her repayments  she 
also said she couldve sold her car or sought help from her parents. She said she was in 
good health at the time.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the mis-sale complaint should be upheld. They said they 
thought it likely Miss D chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing  to indicate it was 
wrong or unsuitable  for her. But they went on to say that because  HSBC took a high 
commission and profit share, it would pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss D. And in 
the circumstances this was a fair way to settle  things.
Because Miss D disagrees, the complaint  comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Miss Ds case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds mis-sale complaint and my reasons are 
set out below.
did Miss D have a choice about  PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?
I can see that one of Miss Ds key and original complaint points is that she didnt know  she 
had PPI  she says it must have been put on without her knowledge. Ive therefore  
considered this matter  carefully.
Having done so, I think HSBC made it clear that Miss D didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that she chose  to take it out  although I can understand  why she cant  now remember  this.
Ref: DRN07329552HSBC hasnt got all of the paperwork  from the time of the sale. But it has provided a copy of 
the Demands and Needs document the adviser  used during the meeting with Miss D when 
they provided their advice. 
Looking at this I can see the adviser  recorded that theyd discussed  PPI with Miss D and that 
because of her circumstances, they made  a recommendation she take it out to protect her 
mortgage payments..  
So its clear to me that there was a discussion about PPI. And the way the recommendation 
for PPI was set out in the paperwork,  Im not persuaded Miss D wouldve been given the 
impression that she had to have PPI. Im also mindful that Miss D wouldve had to sign a 
separate direct debit  mandate to allow the premiums to come  out of her bank account  
separate from the mortgage payment.
So, overall I think Miss D chose and agreed  to take out PPI and that she did so without 
undue pressure  albeit cover that was recommended to her. 
the advice
HSBC recommended the PPI to Miss D, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she was eligible for the cover; she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover; and she seems  to have had a need for the cover.  
the information
Without all of the paperwork from the time of the sale,  I accept  its possible the information 
HSBC gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But as I found above, 
it appears that she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
conclusion
In light of what Ive said above, I find Miss D hasnt lost out to the extent HSBC  has to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
But HSBC  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss D because : 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss D about that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Miss D has said - including what shes said about having  good 
sick pay, savings  and help from parents. But these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN07329553I can see the adviser documented and considered Miss Ds sick pay and her savings when 
giving their advice,  but they still considered she had a need for the policy.
 
And I dont  think it was wrong for HSBC  to have recommended  PPI in the circumstances. 
While Miss Ds sick pay wouldve helped her out in the immediate term, the PPI wouldve 
paid out alongside Miss Ds sick pay and for longer if necessary  up to 12 months   
allowing Miss Ds sick pay to cater for other ongoing household expenditure. And Miss Ds 
savings wouldve quickly been eroded if she found  herself unable  to work for an extended 
period.
Miss D says she had a car she couldve sold as well as having parents on hand who 
wouldve helped her out if needed.  But I dont  consider these things can reasonably be 
considered guaranteed means   and I wouldnt have expected  HSBC  to have taken these 
things into account  when it advised her to take out the policy.
So overall, I think PPI was suitable for Miss D because it wouldve helped  her out at what 
would likely  be a difficult and perhaps  uncertain time. It was protecting her main asset and at 
a cost, which was not significant. So while HSBC might not have done everything  it should 
fairly and reasonably have done, for the reasons  Ive given above I dont think Miss Ds 
decision to take out the cover wouldve been  any different had HSBC done anything  more.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Miss D any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back  to Miss D any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
So, HSBC  should  pay back to Miss D the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. HSBC should  also 
pay Miss D 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss D can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Miss D has not lost out to the extent 
that HSBC Bank UK Plc has  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
But HSBC  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss D any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0732955