K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained about the way Nowell & Richards Insurance Services  Limited (N & R) 
handled the renewal of his car insurance.  
background
Mr Hs policy  was due to renew on 1 December. A few weeks  before that N & R received 
details of the renewal, including the price (£614.80), from the insurer.  The cost had risen  
significantly from the previous year so N & R spoke with Mr H and told him it would search 
the market for comparative prices. 
On 27 November N & R emailed Mr H and told him the best price it could find was £660.91.  
This was with the same insurer, but the price had increased because  Mr H had told N & R 
about a speeding fine hed received. On 29 November N & R discussed the renewal with 
Mr H and he agreed for the policy to be renewed.
Mr H received the policy documentation  on 29 December. The following week  he decided to 
cancel the policy.  N & R told Mr H hed have to pay for the period hed been insured for.
Mr H complained because  he didnt think the cooling off period had expired  he felt he had 
14 days from when he received the policy  documents. He also complained that the 
documents he received quoted a higher premium than what  he was told over the phone. 
N & R said it sent the documents  a few days after the policy was renewed and couldnt 
explain why Mr H received them several  weeks later.  It also said cooling  off period started 
from when the policy  renewed. N & R noted that it had said the incorrect  price  in the phone 
call on 29 November and apologised. But it felt Mr H would have  known the correct price  
regardless. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He felt N & R sent the policy 
documents when  it said it did and that Mr H would have known how much the price was 
despite the error over the phone. He also concluded  that N & R wasnt  responsible for what  
Mr H was being asked  to pay. Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter. He said proof of post wasnt the same  as proof of delivery and repeated  that the 
price in the documents wasnt the same as what hed been  told over the phone. He also 
remained of the view that he cancelled the policy within the cooling  off period.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The amount  Mr H is being asked to pay is purely for the time the insurer  insured his car for. 
That was charged  by the insurer and is not something N & R has any control over.  
Nevertheless, that doesnt stop me from considering  whether N & R poorly administered the 
renewal of the policy, and whether that led to Mr H suffering unnecessary  losses.
renewal documents
Part of Mr Hs unhappiness stems  from the fact he didnt receive the documents  until four 
weeks after the policy renewed. Ordinarily, an insurer or intermediary should send a 
policyholder details of the renewal in good time so that they can decide whether or not to 
Ref: DRN02837682renew the policy. I havent seen anything here which  suggests that anything was sent to 
Mr H prior to the policy  renewing.
However, N & R was in contact with Mr H prior to the renewal and it explained  the situation 
to him. I consider the conversation that took place two days  prior to the renewal particularly 
important and Ive listened to a recording of that. Of relevance, Mr H says that the price is 
£660 and N & R confirms  that the policy is the same as the previous year. And whilst Mr H 
didnt actually say something like I want to renew the policy I think his demeanour and what  
he did say clearly implies thats what he wanted to do. Specifically, after the initial  part of the 
conversation where the price and cover  was discussed, Mr H asked N & R to send 
everything over and to do the usual thing with the invoice. He also ended the call by saying 
until next year.
So, irrespective of whether the documents were sent/received a few days later or a few 
weeks later,  Mr H had already decided to renew the policy.  And Im satisfied he knew  what  
was happening.
N & Rs advisor did incorrectly tell Mr H during the call that the price  was £614.80. But Im 
not persuaded this affected  Mr Hs decision. Hed already been told what  the cost was and 
why it had increased, and he started  the conversation by saying the price was £660.
Mr H has said that he couldnt properly decide  whether  the policy was right for him until he 
had a chance to review  the policy documents. Im not persuaded by this. As Ive said, I think  
he was fully aware of the situation  during the call on 29 November and that hed made  his 
mind up then to renew the policy. If upon  reflection he later decided  that he didnt want the 
policy he could have  contacted N & R. As it was, even after receiving  the documents  Mr H 
didnt contact N & R  it was N & R who contacted him chasing payment  which  prompted 
Mr H to cancel the policy.  
cooling off period
The policy documents clearly say that the cooling  off period starts from the date the policy  
starts or renews. But even if I look beyond the strict policy  terms and give Mr H the benefit of 
this argument  Im not persuaded the situation would be much different.
Mr H doesnt get free insurance just because  he cancels  the policy within  the cooling off 
period. He would  still have  to pay a minimum of £25 plus insurance premium  tax for the 
period of time the policy  ran for  even  if that was one day. N & R would  also be entitled  to 
charge a £25 fee for the policy renewal and a £50 cancellation fee (which I note it waived in 
this case).  So thats not far off what Mr H is currently being asked to pay.
summary
There were some errors made by N & R in its handling of Mr Hs renewal  it didnt send 
Mr H any documentation prior to the renewal and it told him the wrong price during the 
phone call on 29 November. But Im not persuaded these errors  led to Mr H acting any 
differently in respect of him deciding to renew the policy  or in the date he asked N & R to 
cancel it. So I dont  think anything N & R did or didnt do led to Mr H being charged  more for 
his policy.
Ref: DRN02837683my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0283768