K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a number of fee-paying 
packaged bank  accounts.
She says she was told she had to get the account to take out a loan/overdraft/mortgage. She 
also says that she wasnt made aware of fee-free alternatives and was told she was 
ineligible for fee-free accounts and so had to get a packaged account. Mrs W says she tried 
to cancel the packaged account but was forced  into keeping it.
background
Mrs W initially opened a fee-free account with Barclays. An overdraft  was added to her 
account in December 1997. Her account history was then as follows:
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions account  March 2001
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions Plus account June 2006
Downgraded to a cheaper fee-paying Current Account Plus December 2008
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions Active account August 2010
Downgraded to a fee-free current account  May 2016
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and she didnt  think the packaged  accounts  
had been mis-sold. Mrs W disagreed, so the complaint has been referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive used that to help me 
decide this case.
Having considered everything  that has been provided, I dont think the packaged  accounts  
were mis-sold. I will explain  why.
Mrs W has said that she was told that the only way to have an overdraft  was by agreeing to 
have a packaged account.  Whereas Barclays says that it has never been a requirement  to 
have a packaged bank account to have an overdraft.
Additions account 
When the Additions account  was sold, Mrs W already had a fee-free account with an 
overdraft. Therefore, when the Additions account was sold Im satisfied that Mrs W was 
aware that she could  have an overdraft on a fee-free account. 
In March 2001 the Additions account cost £6 per month. But the key benefit of the account 
was that by having it, Barclays  would automatically  provide  an overdraft facility with the 
account (although  its not clear what that amount was as it was so long ago).  And by having  
the account, the first £100 of the overdraft was interest free and you could avoid paying a £5 
overdraft usage  fee (plus  the overdraft interest) that was applied  to fee-free accounts. 
Ref: DRN03975842Looking at the account ledgers that Barclays has provided, I can see that Mrs W was 
regularly using her overdraft, before she upgraded to the Additions account. So by agreeing 
to the Additions  account, she was effectively able to fix the cost of using her overdraft rather 
than paying overdraft fees and interest   which  Mrs W was consistently paying more  than £6 
per month in the months  prior to the sale.
Although there is little evidence available from the time, I think the overdraft saving  was likely 
the main reason why Mrs W upgraded to the Additions account. And I think  its likely - being  
the main benefit  of the Additions  account at the time  that Barclays explained this to her. So 
even if Barclays had given Mrs W more information about the account, I doubt  she wouldve 
been put off from upgrading  to it. So I dont think it was mis-sold.
Additions Plus account
When Mrs W was sold the Additions  Plus account, I can see that around that time her 
overdraft limit was increased  to £2,000  from £1,300. However, Im not persuaded that Mrs W 
agreed to this account because she thought  she had to, to increase her limit. I say this as 
Mrs W had increased  her overdraft limit from £1,000 to £1,300 on 5 September  2005  i.e. 
whilst she held the Additions account. Therefore, given that she had already been able to 
increase her agreed  limit a few months before the sale of this account - without having to 
change her account - I think  its likely she was aware that she could do so again without 
having to upgrade her account.
Barclays says it advised Mrs W to upgrade to this account. So, it had to make sure the 
account was right for her.
At the time the account cost £13 per month,  and provided worldwide travel  insurance, 
breakdown cover, extended warranty, optional mobile phone insurance and a £250  interest  
free overdraft facility  with preferential interest  rates on balances  overdrawn by more  than 
that amount.
Mrs W says she travelled,  drove  a vehicle  and had a mobile phone. So I think these benefits 
mayve been useful for her. And given that shed recently applied  to increase her overdraft 
limit to £2,000 I think the extra overdraft benefits  that the account provided  wouldve been of 
use to her  especially as the account only cost an extra £3 per month  to what  she was 
already paying  for the Additions account.
So overall, I dont  think this account  was mis-sold.  
Current Account Plus
When Mrs W agreed to this account, it represented  a downgrade as it only cost £3 per 
month compared to £14.50 for the cost of the Additions Plus account. And in return  it 
provided mobile phone  insurance, gadget cover,  extended warranty  and card protection. 
Barclays says that it also provided a £300 interest  free overdraft facility  with preferential 
interest rates on overdrawn balances  above  that amount.
Ref: DRN03975843Based on what Mrs W has said, having  an overdraft was clearly  important to her. And in our 
questionnaire Mrs W says that she was told that having a packaged account was the only 
way to get a fee-free overdraft. And that is correct - as Mrs W would be charged overdraft 
interest and charges when using an overdraft on a fee-free  account. Therefore, given how 
important having  an overdraft was to Mrs W and to keep costs down when using it, I think  
that is the most likely  reason why Mrs W agreed  to the Current  Account Plus. 
Additions Active account
Having held the cheaper Current  Account Plus for around 18 months,  Mrs W agreed to 
upgrade her account  to an Additions  Active account in August  2010 which  cost £15 per 
month (compared  to £5 per month that she was paying for the Current  Account Plus).
As the overdraft limit remained unchanged, Im satisfied that Mrs W was aware that she 
didnt have to have the account to have an overdraft. Afterall if she thought  this, then I 
wouldve expected  her to have continued with the cheaper packaged account rather  than 
agree to one that cost £10 extra a month.
At the time it provided worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover, Mobile phone 
insurance, extended warranty and home emergency  cover. As well as a £300 interest free 
overdraft facility with preferential interest rates  on balances overdrawn by more than that 
amount. And I understand that Mrs W registered a phone and a gadget under the cover  (the 
latter of which was added as a benefit after it had been sold to Mrs W) and used the 
breakdown cover.
Based on Mrs Ws usage of the benefits,  and her awareness of cheaper packaged accounts  
that were available, Im satisfied that recommending the account  to Mrs W was not 
unreasonable in the circumstances as she clearly  had an interest in at least  some of the 
features that it provided.
I appreciate that Mrs W may not have needed all of the features that came  with the various  
accounts she held.  But as they were  all sold as a package, she could not pick and choose 
what they came with. And although  its not clear if Barclays did give Mrs W all of the 
information it shouldve  during each  sale, Ive not seen anything  that makes  me think that 
she wouldve been put off from agreeing to them. 
For example, although Mrs W says she had separate travel  insurance elsewhere, she has 
said that it was provided for free. So it was not the case that she was ever paying  twice for 
the benefit on the occasions she held it with her Barclays account. And although she said 
she had life cover for her mortgage, any additional cover  provided by the packaged accounts 
(although on the most part I cant see that they offered such cover) would still have paid out 
in the event of a claim. So I dont think either of these points change my thoughts on this 
complaint.
Finally, Mrs W has said that the packaged accounts have been poor value for money. And I 
appreciate with the benefit of hindsight and perhaps based on what  shes  read about  
packaged bank  accounts recently,  Mrs W may now regret agreeing to them as she did not 
often use the benefits.  But that in itself doesnt  mean  that they were mis-sold or that Barclays  
was wrong to have  sold them to her when it did.
Ref: DRN03975844Mrs W has also said that every time she tried to downgrade her account she was forced  into 
keeping it. Its not clear when exactly Mrs W is referring to. But I have looked through all the 
information that Barclays has provided   which includes its customer  contact notes  and 
some call recordings (unfortunately  due to the time involved  very few are now available). Im 
unable to see any evidence of a downgrade request being denied.  There  is evidence  that 
the overdraft limit was discussed in 2014,  but it looks to have been renewed  and there  is no 
suggestion that a downgrade was mentioned.  Therefore, based on what I have, Im unable 
to reasonably conclude that Barclays acted unfairly by denying Mrs W a downgrade when 
she had requested one. 
As such,  taking everything into account I dont  think that the packaged  accounts  were mis-
sold. I therefore think it would be inappropriate to require Barclays  to refund her the fees 
shes paid over the years for the various  packaged accounts Mrs W has held with Barclays.  
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0397584