K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold them  mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I didnt think Nationwide had made the optional nature of these  policies clear.  
The mortgage application Id seen from 1994 said Mr and Mrs M were required to take out a 
PPI policy  if the loan to value  was more than 90%. As the amount Mr and Mrs M borrowed 
was more than this, I think at the time,  Mr and Mrs M would have thought that they had to 
have a PPI policy in place. 
Nationwide said its representative  would have told them that they didnt have to take out a 
policy. But I havent seen  anything that makes  me think that it told them  this. 
In 2007, Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs M a new policy. And Mr M then cancelled the existing 
policy. Nationwide hasnt  been able to give me any information about how this PPI was sold. 
And because Mr and Mrs M probably  thought they needed the cover to have a mortgage 
back in 1994,  I didnt think Id seen anything  that made me think the sale in 2007 would have 
made them think differently. Or that theyd been  given a choice in taking this PPI.
Nationwide didnt agree  with my provisional decision and have made  the below main points:
Their representative  would have told Mr and Mrs M they had a choice in buying PPI  
even though the signed documents from the time suggest otherwise.
In 2006, Mr and Mrs M took out a further advance  and declined  PPI at this time. 
In May 2007, Mr and Mrs M cancelled the existing policy  as they had bought a new 
one  also with Nationwide   just covering Mr M for accident and sickness.  The 
cancellation of the existing policy shows they knew they had a choice.
Mr and Mrs Ms main  complaint point is that they didnt know  they had PPI and it was 
added without their knowledge.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  respond to my provisional  decision with any additional points, so I 
assume they have  nothing further  to add.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I am upholding this 
complaint. 
Nationwide have accepted that the wrong application form was used for this mortgage and 
subsequently the PPI. This is because it wasnt Nationwides process  when this policy  was 
sold, for PPI to be a compulsory product.  But the application form said PPI was compulsory  
if the loan to value was more than 90% - as Mr and Mrs Ms was. So I think  that based  on 
this form, Mr and Mrs M would have thought they had to take a policy.  
Ref: DRN08727002Nationwide remains of the opinion that the representative at the time would have told Mr and 
Mrs M they didnt need to buy cover.  This might well be the case,  but I havent seen anything  
at all to show this happened,  other than what Nationwide have said they think  happened. 
And given  the application  isnt clear on this point, and in fact says the PPI was compulsory 
for customers borrowing  over a certain amount of money, Im upholding this complaint on the 
basis that Nationwide didnt make it clear  enough to Mr and Mrs M that they didnt have to 
have cover.
In 2006 Mr and Mrs M declined to take PPI out with additional borrowing. And I agree this 
shows that they had a choice in taking PPI with the further advance.  But I dont think  this 
tells me that there was a choice when they took out the cover  in 1994. And so it follows that I 
still think the 1994 sale of PPI was mis-sold.
In 2007, Mr and Mrs M cancelled the existing policy because  Nationwide  had sold them a 
new one. As Ive already said in my provisional decision, Nationwide hasnt given  me 
anything to show me what happened  in the sale. Im aware  Mr and Mrs M chose to reduce 
the level of cover from accident, sickness and unemployment to just accident and sickness.  I 
agree this shows that there was a choice in the level of cover, but I still havent  seen  
anything to make me think that they would  have known they didnt have  to have PPI at all 
with the mortgage. Because I think it likely Mr and Mrs M thought they had to have cover in 
place in 1994, and that there doesnt seem to be a period of time when Mr and Mrs M didnt 
have a PPI policy in place. I still think Mr and Mrs M probably thought theyd need some 
level of PPI in place in order to have  this mortgage.
I appreciate Nationwides comments in that Mr and Mrs M said that they werent  aware they 
had cover. And I can understand  that Mr and Mrs M probably didnt  remember buying 
policies given how long ago they were  both sold. Just because Mr and Mrs M say they dont 
remember taking them, I cant overlook the information that I have on file that suggests that 
they didnt have a choice.  
And so I dont think Nationwide made it clear to Mr and Mrs M in 1994 or 2007 that they had 
a choice in taking PPI. And for this reasons, I think Nationwide should put things right for 
Mr and Mrs M by doing what Ive said below.
what the business should  do to put things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and Nationwide  
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount  they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes  them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.
Ref: DRN08727003my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Nationwide Building  Society should  put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019..
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide  Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about  a regular premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1994. Mr and 
Mrs M applied  for the PPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold  the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN08727004Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Im currently  intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
At the moment, I dont  think  Nationwide made clear to Mr and Mrs M that they had a choice about  
buying the policy. So I think  Mr and Mrs M took out the policy even though they didnt really want it.
Nationwide has told me that PPI wasnt a compulsory product with any of their mortgages from 
1993. And because this PPI was sold in 1994, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M didnt
have to buy a PPI policy with their mortgage.
Nationwide has given me a copy of the mortgage application form that was completed.  Theres a 
section on the form for PPI and I can see that there are two options  a box to tick to buy PPI or a 
box to tick to decline it. I can see that theres a tick in the yes box  suggesting that Mr and Mrs M 
wanted a policy.
But below these  two choices it says, Please  note that where the loan is over 90% of the property 
value or purchase  price,  whichever is the lower, Mortgage Payment Cover is compulsory.  From  
the information Ive seen, Mr and Mrs Ms loan to value was more than
90%.
Nationwide told us that their staff member completed an old application form, but would have 
explained the PPI was optional at the time.
Although there  are two options to either accept or decline PPI on the form,  I currently think  that Mr 
and Mrs M would have thought that they had to buy the PPI, given that the information on the form 
said that they had to buy it if their loan to value was more than 90% - and their loan to value was 
around 90.98%.
Ive thought about what Nationwide  has said about  the advisor using the wrong form, and that the 
representative would have told Mr and Mrs M that the cover was optional  even though the loan to 
value was more than 90%. But I cant be sure that they were  told this. Or that the representative  
themselves were clear  about  this  given  that the form states otherwise.
And if this part of the form was no longer true, Id have expected this part of the form to be crossed 
out in order to make it clear that this no longer applied.  There are asterisks next to this section,  but I 
dont know if this is drawing attention to the statement, or suggesting it no longer applies, or saying 
that Mr and Mrs M needed  to make a choice in relation  to the cover.
I have seen a copy of a letter Mr M sent to Nationwide  in 2007 to cancel their current PPI because  
theyd been sold a new policy  (by Nationwide)  that covered  Mr M for accident and sickness only. I 
dont know what happened  when  this PPI was sold, and Nationwide hasnt been able to give me 
much information about it either. So I dont know how the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs M. And 
given that I currently think Mr and Mrs M probably  thought the policy  sold to them in 1994 was 
compulsory, I also think  it likely that they still thought they had to have cover  in place when they 
bought a new policy (replacing the existing policy) in 2007. So Im currently  of the opinion that 
Nationwide didnt make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that they didnt have to have cover in 2007.  So I 
also intend to uphold the sale of this policy.
In 2006, Mr and Mrs M took out a further advance. And I can see from the application form that they 
chose not to take PPI out to cover the loan. But I dont  think that this means that they knew they had 
Ref: DRN08727005a choice  in taking the policy in 1994. I think it more  likely that they knew they didnt  have to have 
cover with the further advance   and this is why they chose  not buy it at this time.
So I currently cant see how the optional nature of these policies would  have been made clear to 
Mr and Mrs M. And at the moment, I think they probably bought the cover  because they thought 
they had to have it.
Nationwide have said that PPI wasnt on the offer letter, so this should  have alerted
Mr and Mrs M to the fact they didnt have to have it. Nationwide has also sent me a copy  of what  the 
offer letter would look like if the cover had been compulsory. But realistically, I dont think Mr and Mrs 
M would have  really thought about this. Especially if they had a copy of a document  that told them 
they had to have it.
Mr and Mrs M have  mainly complained that they didnt know they had PPI and the cover was added 
without their knowledge  and Nationwide say that this is different to them  saying that they didnt 
know they had a choice. Ive thought about this point carefully.  But this still doesnt change my 
current thoughts on the outcome of this complaint.  These PPI policies were sold in 1994 and 2007.  
So it doesnt  surprise me that Mr and Mrs M cant remember taking the cover.  I agree that it looks as 
though they agreed to buy it in 1994. But I think they probably only did this because they thought  they 
had to.
I dont think Mr and Mrs M wouldve bought the policies  if Nationwide had made  clear it they had a 
choice. So, I currently  think  Mr and Mrs M has lost out because of what  Nationwide  did wrong.
what the business should do to put things  right
Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs M in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and Nationwide should:
    Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount they paid each month for the PPI
    Add simple  interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
    If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide  to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide must 
give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im planning to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
I now invite Mr and Mrs M and Nationwide  to give me any further information  they want me to 
consider before I make  my final decision. This must be provided to us by 
20 September 2018.
Ref: DRN0872700