K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
June 2003. Mr and Mrs P say National Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
 I think NatWest  made it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember this. 
From what  I know about the NatWest  process for selling PPI at this time, I would have 
expected Mr and Mrs P to have  completed  a separate PPI application  form. It would 
have been up to them to fill this out and I cant see a reason why they would  be made to. 
And although Mr and P say they were  simply told to sign the form and told they needed 
the cover, I think they would have had the opportunity to review the PPI before signing it. 
 NatWest  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs P so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs P got the information they 
needed to decide  if it was right for them. 
 Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like they were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive also thought about what  Mr and Mrs P said about having  enough  savings so that 
they didnt need the PPI. The key thing about mortgage PPI is that it would have given 
Mr and Mrs P the reassurance of knowing that their monthly mortgage premium 
payments were covered for up to 12 months if one or both of them was unable to work. 
And it also meant they wouldnt  have to dig into  and potentially  use up - their savings 
or have  to find other sources of finance at what could be a difficult  time for them 
financially. 
Ive also noticed  that Mr and Mrs P were both self-employed. But from what  Ive seen 
theyd still be able to make a successful claim for accident or sickness if one or both of 
them wasnt  able to work.
Mr and Mrs P also told us about a successful  PPI claim where  they received compensation 
for PPI sold with another product. I dont have  details  about this complaint  and cannot 
consider it here in any event  but the outcome of every mis-sale complaint turns very much 
on its own individual facts.  
Ref: DRN04959882Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs P paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Ps PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ps commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay them  back any of the commission  they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0495988