K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about his home insurer St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) in 
relation to a claim  he made to it after he found  water damage in a bedroom at his home.
background
In January 2018 Mr H noticed water damage above  the window in a bedroom at his home. 
He contacted St Andrews and it appointed a surveying company to attend his property and 
consider the damage.  A surveyor visited Mr Hs home on 1 February  2018.
The surveyor looked at the damage  in the bedroom, and took some photos of the roof using 
a pole. He concluded the damage might  be caused  by condensation.  A report was later 
issued to St Andrews which recorded this view and noted there  was no storm damage  to the 
roof. Mr Hs claim  was declined.
Mr H was unhappy. With the claim being declined and weather worsening he opted to have  
a roofing company, which had knocked on his door offering their services,  to look at and fix 
his roof. This cost him £3,000  there  was a gap under tiles at the gable end, some cracked 
tiles and rotten batons. Mr H has since become unsure as to the quality of the work  
completed and believes  he could have had work done by others, for around £1,500, if the 
surveyor had completed a better survey and noted the problems that existed  with the roof. 
He is also upset that the form issued to him by the surveyor  says it will offer quotes for 
repairing uninsured  damage  but no offer to complete  work  was ever made to him.
St Andrews  considered a complaint Mr H made to it. It felt the report  completed  by its 
surveyor could have  been more thorough. But based on the report  and what Mr H had told it 
about the damage that hed repaired, it felt the decision to decline the claim was correct. It 
offered Mr H £75 compensation. Mr H remained unhappy as he felt St Andrews had missed  
the point hed been trying to make  that the poor quality of the report  had caused him a 
financial loss. Mr H complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that the surveyors  report had been sufficient for the purpose it was 
intended  to assess the insurance claim. He felt the decision to decline the claim, both 
under the cover for storm and accidental damage was fair and reasonable. He said if Mr H 
had wanted St Andrews  surveyor to quote  for private work that was a matter for him to have 
chased with the surveyor. He felt £75 compensation offered by St Andrews was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr H said he thought  the surveyor should have  checked the roof thoroughly by use of a 
ladder or scaffolding   that is what other traders have told him theyd have done. Mr H said 
he felt his complaint  hadnt been properly understood. He asked that on review  his age was 
taken into account  along with fact that St Andrews hadnt provided any quality or care.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, with regret for any upset 
this causes Mr H, Im not upholding his complaint.  
I understand that Mr H believes  poor work  on the part of St Andrews  surveyor  has caused 
him to suffer  a financial loss and put him at risk of having  had poor work done.  I understand 
Ref: DRN08930052why Mr H thinks this is the case  but I dont agree its fair and reasonable to conclude that is 
what happened. 
Whilst St Andrews told Mr H it was sending a surveyor to his property,  it was never its job or 
intention to complete  a full survey of Mr Hs roof to identify any and all damage.  I appreciate  
the form Mr H was issued  at the point of the survey does give room  for any uninsured  
damage to be recorded  but that doesnt mean  a failure by the surveyor  to note damage of 
this nature reasonably makes St Andrews, as the insurer, liable for any loss that results. 
Thats because St Andrews is responsible for insured damage,  and failures in respect of its 
agents in respect  of insurance related work.
When damage like that noted by Mr H is reported, its quite normal  for an insurer to send an 
assessor to a property  to consider that damage. Their job is to determine, on behalf of the 
insurer, whether any damage  found  has likely  resulted  from an event covered by the policy.  
Its also quite normal for assessors, carrying out this type of work to not use ladders and 
instead to view the roof by means of taking photos.  Whether that is sufficient in all 
circumstances might depend on the nature of the issue at hand,  and the quality of the 
photos. But given  the water damage reported, its location  and the quality of the photos taken 
here (which are taken  in good light and arent blurred or too distant), Im satisfied the 
surveyor acted fairly  and reasonably. He gathered sufficient evidence to establish there was 
no damage St Andrews  was liable for under the policy.
Unfortunately for Mr H that is where the surveyors and, St Andrews liability ends.  If the 
surveyor failed to spot damage  that wasnt caused  by something covered by the policy, 
I cant hold St Andrews liable for any loss that resulted. Thats because St Andrews only has 
a duty to Mr H in relation to the cover it provides. If the surveyor had missed  insured 
damage, then that would be a different matter because he would then have failed in the job 
he was sent to do and that would be a failure  of St Andrews to fulfil the contract  for 
insurance.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against St Andrews Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0893005