K822xcomplaint
Mr Ws complaint  is that Standard Life Assurance  Limited (SL) unlawfully, and without his 
consent, surrendered  his joint lives assured Endowment Policy  (the policy). He is also 
unhappy about difficulties he faced in trying to obtain, from SL, information and 
documentation about the matter.
background 
The complaint was considered by two of our adjudicators, in succession. The second 
adjudicator provided  a view in which  he summarised  the relevant history  as follows:
The policy began in 1999 and was surrendered in January 2018.  
[Mr W confirms that, despite the joint lives status  of the policy, he made all the 
payments into it.]
SL surrendered  the policy in response to a court order  which it says it received in 
late 2017  instructing  it to do so and to divide the proceeds equally between the two 
joint policy holders,  including  Mr W. 
[Mr W says he has been  legally advised that the court order is questionable in terms 
of its legal validity and he also confirmed to us that, given his dispute  of the matter, 
he had not encashed the cheque for his share  of the proceeds.]
Initially SL refused  to share the court order with Mr W and this remained its position 
even after he submitted a Subject Access Request. He sought and obtained 
intervention from the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The ICO concluded  
that Mr W is entitled to see the court documents (appropriately redacted)  upon which 
SL relied in surrendering the policy. The documents were then provided to him. 
[Nevertheless, Mr W (and his legal  advisers) maintains that there are defects which  
call into question the validity  of the court order document.]
The second  adjudicator concluded as follows:
It was reasonable  for SL to comply with the court order.
This service is not in a position  to audit the courts actions  and order.
SLs actions had made  the matter unduly difficult, upsetting and stressful  for Mr W so 
he should be paid £350 for the trouble and upset  caused to him in this respect.  
SL objected to what it viewed as duplication of treatment between  this service and 
the ICO, but he explained that the trouble  and upset award addresses an issue that 
is distinct from what the ICO addressed.  SL eventually accepted his recommendation 
to pay the award to Mr W.
Mr W disagrees with this outcome. In the main,  he maintains his challenge  against  SLs 
action in surrendering the policy (and against the validity of the court order) and he says the 
award for the trouble  and upset he faced is inadequate.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman. In the process, queries were put to SL with 
regards to the court order being  undated. In response, SL mainly  referred to the courts 
written instruction (to SL) to surrender the policy and to share the proceeds  equally between 
the two policy holders  (an instruction which was signed and dated by the relevant District  
Judge) and said that its legal department  was satisfied that the instruction  must be complied 
with and that the court order it received was valid. SLs position is that it could not 
Ref: DRN01776072reasonably have taken the risk of ignoring  the instruction  and being  in contempt of the court 
order; and that if Mr W disputes the validity of the court order he should pursue that dispute 
with the court.
findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions expressed  by the second adjudicator.
Without breaching  the confidentiality of the full background  to Mr Ws case, it is worth noting 
that personal and sensitive  issues  have  featured in the wider case. In addition,  Mr W would 
likely have been distressed by the very fact that the policy was surrendered without input or 
consent from him. I mention these points in order to acknowledge  that Mr W could have 
done without the difficulties he faced  in trying to obtain  information about the matter from SL 
 information which, I consider,  he reasonably  sought.
The possibility of providing Mr W with redacted information/documentation which  met his 
enquiries but did not breach the confidentiality concerns it had would not have been  beyond 
SLs consideration. Had it done so at the outset  as it eventually  did after the ICOs 
intervention  it would  have  saved  Mr W the trouble and upset  he unfortunately faced in this 
respect.
This creates  a fair basis for a trouble and upset award to Mr W. The aim being  to 
compensate him for the effects of said trouble and upset upon him  not to punish SL. In this 
context, I do not consider  the amount of £350  to be inadequate. It is broadly consistent with 
trouble and upset  awards that have  been  made in comparable cases. In addition, the 
disclosure(s) he sought appears  to have become available  in reasonable time after the ICOs 
conclusion on the matter  which would have  mitigated his trouble and upset. I can 
understand why Mr W considers the award to be inadequate,  but I am not persuaded to ask 
SL to pay more.
The other issue to address  is Mr Ws concerns about the validity of the court order  and his 
view that SL was wrong to act upon  it. As the second adjudicator  suggested, the former is a 
matter beyond this services remit. We were not party to the relevant court proceedings, we 
were not party to correspondence  related to those proceedings  and we do not have 
jurisdiction to audit  the proceedings or their outcome(s). In this context, and for the reasons  
given below, I do not consider that I have  the standing to determine whether  (or not) the 
court has issued a valid order.  
It has already been identified  that the copy of the order shared with us is not dated  and we 
have questioned this. However, this does not automatically mean a properly dated,  signed 
and sealed version of the order does not exist  and we are limited  in our ability to explore 
and obtain all original  (or copies of all original)  court correspondence in the matter.  
SLs response also raises a fair point. The written  instruction sent to it and demanding that it 
surrenders the policy (and share  its proceeds) is indeed dated  and signed by the relevant 
District Judge. I do not suggest that SL did not need  to satisfy itself that a valid court order  
supported the instruction. It says its legal department was satisfied in this respect, in addition  
to which  it had a signed and dated  instruction from the Judge.  On balance and with these 
elements, I do not consider it unreasonable that SL took the view that it was duty bound to 
comply with the courts  instruction and to surrender the policy.  If Mr W and his legal advisers 
Ref: DRN01776073retain the view that the court order is questionable,  that is arguably a matter for them to 
address directly to/with the court.
decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint with regards to the trouble and 
upset he faced in his pursuit  for information from Standard Life Assurance  Limited.  I order 
Standard Life Assurance Limited to pay him £350  in this respect. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept or reject  my decision 
before 8 August 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0177607