K820x#14Complaint
Miss O complains  that Santander UK Plc blocked her account after she received  an 
incoming payment of £5,000. Santander  refused  to release the funds and closed the 
account. Miss O would like the release of the funds.
Background
Miss O had a basic account with Santander which she used for her gardening business.
On 25 September  2018 Miss O received a faster payment  into her account  for £5,000.
Santander asked  for evidence  of Miss Os entitlement to the funds and blocked the account 
whilst it was carrying out a review.
Miss O told Santander that the £5,000 was payment for work shed done and provided an 
invoice from a customer on 26 September 2018.
On 17 October 2018 Santander completed their review  and gave Miss O 14 days notice of 
closure of the account. 
Santander didnt  release  the £5,000 as they werent satisfied with the evidence of 
entitlement that Miss O had produced.
Miss O complained to Santander. She wanted  to find out what the bank had done with the 
£5,000. She thought the funds were to be returned to sender. Santander confirmed the 
sending bank would need to contact  them  in order for the funds to be sent back  to source.
On 13 November Santander said Miss O would need to provide further evidence  of 
entitlement to the funds, or the sending bank  could request the funds back. 
Miss O raised a complaint with Santander on 28 November 2018. 
She provided more  information from her client regarding her entitlement  to the funds to 
Santander. Santander were not satisfied. They said to return the funds to source the sender 
would need to contact their bank to request the return of funds.
Miss O complained to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He said Santander were entitled  to review 
and close the account in line with its legal and regulatory obligations and the terms and 
conditions and they werent obliged  to give Miss O reasons for their decision.  He said 
Santander were entitled  to not release the funds  until they were  satisfied regarding 
entitlement or they received a request from the sending bank for the return  of the funds.
Miss O was unhappy with the view. She said she wanted the money and was out of pocket. 
She wanted the money returned  to her as she was no longer in touch  with the sender. She 
said she didnt mind  that Santander had closed her account. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN00267172My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons.
Review and closure  of account
Ill start by setting out some context for the review  of Miss Os account. UK legislation  places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses.  Financial institutions  must establish 
the purpose and intended  nature  of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override  all other obligations.  Having looked  at the evidence I am satisfied that 
this is what Santander  was doing  when  it reviewed and blocked Miss Os account. I am also 
satisfied that Santander  carried out the review  in a timely manner.
Santander wrote to Miss O on 17 October 2018 and let her know it was closing her account 
giving her 14 days notice.  Miss A had a basic bank account which normally require notice 
period of two months unless certain circumstances apply. Having looked at the evidence  and 
considered the relevant regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, I am 
satisfied that Santander  were  able to close Miss Os account giving  less than two months 
notice. 
As the investigator  explained its generally for banks  to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good  reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Miss O wanted to know why the account  had been  closed. But as the investigator said 
Santander isnt required to give her a specific reason  for closing  the account. So, I cant  say 
Santander has done anything wrong  by not giving  Miss O this information  as much as 
shed like to know.
Return of funds
Miss O has said that she wants Santander  to release the £5,000  to her. She has provided  
Santander with evidence in the shape of invoices  to show the money was due to her for 
gardening services  she provided.
I have looked  at the evidence that both Santander and Miss O have provided in this case.
In order for me to ask Santander to return the funds  to Miss O, I have to be satisfied that she 
is entitled to the funds.  It maybe that Miss O can now provide  more information about the 
funds in her account.  But, in the circumstances I can understand why Santander wanted to 
know about the funds that were paid into Miss Os account. I can understand too why it didnt 
consider Miss O had adequately explained  their source. So, I cant say Santander has done  
anything wrong  when it decided not to release the money remaining in Miss Os account  to 
her. 
Having looked  at the evidence I accept that Santander have withheld Miss Os funds, but I 
havent seen any evidence so far to demonstrate that they have acted unfairly in doing so.
Ref: DRN00267173I understand this will be frustrating for Miss O but Im unable to say that Santander should 
return these funds to Miss O without evidence  that shes entitled to them.  And to date Ive 
not seen compelling evidence  to indicate this. And therefore, I wont  be asking Santander to 
do anything else. 
In summary,  I recognise Miss O feels unhappy about the blocking and subsequent closure of 
the account as well as the monies  not being  returned to her. I realise  Miss O will be 
disappointed by my decision, but overall, based on the evidence  Ive seen, I cant  say 
Santander have  acted unreasonably  and treated Miss O unfairly when they blocked and 
closed her account and withheld  her funds. 
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0026717