K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Welcome Financial Services Limited (Welcome)  mis-sold  him a 
payment protection insurance policy (PPI).
background
Mr H took out a loan with Welcome in 2004.  At the same time he bought  a PPI policy which  
wouldve covered  his repayments for up to 12 months at a time if he was unemployed, and 
for up to 24 months at a time if he was too ill to work.
The cost of the policy was added to his loan, and he paid interest on it.
Mr H says that he didnt  need the PPI because he had a full time job with sick pay.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Hs complaint  should  be upheld. Mr H disagrees, so his case  
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mr H doesnt suggest that he wasnt given a choice about the PPI, or that it was added 
without his consent. He says they convinced  me to buy PPI.  I can see from the documents  
provided by Welcome that the PPI was optional and Mr H didnt have to buy it. Ive thought 
about what Mr H has said about  being convinced to buy the PPI, but I dont think this 
amounts to any unfair pressure.
Welcome advised Mr H to buy the PPI so it had to take reasonable steps  to make sure it was 
suitable for him. Looking at Mr Hs circumstances at the time I think  that it was. I say this 
because:
Mr H was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the terms which 
mightve made it more  difficult for him to make a successful  claim, such as those 
related to self-employment  or existing medical  conditions;
Mr H had some sick pay. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition  to this and 
potentially for the remaining term of the loan if necessary;
Mr H was probably entitled to a small amount  of redundancy  pay. But, again, the 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to this leaving any redundancy pay to cover other 
uninsured expenses;
Mr H didnt have any other means  to meet his repayments if he couldnt  work, so I 
think the policy offered a useful benefit;
The cost of the policy was added to the loan, and Mr H paid interest  on it. This was 
made clear to him during  the sale and the exact  costs were provided to him, so I 
think he knew what hed be paying  for it;
If Mr H cancelled the PPI before the end of the loan term its possible he wouldnt 
have received a proportionate refund of the remaining premiums. But I havent seen 
Ref: DRN03806742anything to suggest this was something Mr H was intending to do, so I dont think  it 
wouldve changed his decision  to buy the PPI if hed understood this clearly.  
Its possible that Mr H wasnt given all the detail he ideally shouldve had to make his 
decision. But I think the policy was suitable for him in the way Ive described  above, so I 
dont think more  - or better  information wouldve changed his decision to buy it.
So I dont  think Mr H lost out as a result  of anything Welcome mightve done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint so it follows that Welcome Financial Services Limited  
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0380674