K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  
S.A. hasnt paid the amount it told her it would  pay her for a travel insurance  claim.
Mrs Ss husband has brought this complaint to us. But for ease Ill refer to all the comments 
as being from Mrs S. 
My references to Mapfre include its agent.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely partly  to uphold this complaint,  and I include an extract from 
my decision  here:
In July 2017  Mrs S went  abroad with her husband and two children. Mrs S and the children  
are insured  under the policy with Mapfre. They flew abroad on one-way tickets as theyd not 
been able to afford the cost of a return flight.  
Mrs S was due to return on 7 September 2017.  On 5 September  2017 she booked  the flights  
back to the UK for her and her children, using a local travel  agent. 
Unfortunately her youngest child fell ill, with a condition  affecting her lungs. The doctors  then 
said that her child wouldnt be able to fly home on 7 September 2017. Mrs S contacted 
Mapfre. She says it told her that she should ask the airline to hold or change  the air tickets. 
But she says the airline told her it couldnt do that, as she didnt know  then when her child 
would be fit to fly. 
Mrs S says Mapfre  then told her to cancel  the air tickets and that Mapfre would refund the 
money (for those flights)  and then Mapfre would book new flights for Mrs S and the 
children, when the youngest was able to fly. But Mrs S was travelling with her husband, who 
wasnt insured under  the policy. So she says Mapfre told her to book and pay for the new 
tickets home  and that it would refund the money for the new flights  and the cancelled flights. 
Mrs S made a claim to Mapfre. It asked for some further information and there was some  
delay before it offered to make  a payment to her. Mapfre offered to pay the cost of the new 
flights to the UK. But it said it would  deduct the refund shed received for the flights  shed 
booked herself (on 5 September). Mrs S said that wasnt  fair, as it wasnt what shed been 
told shed receive. She complained to us about  the amount Mapfre  said it would pay and 
about the delay.  
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint. She thought Mapfre had offered to pay the correct 
amount, because Mrs S wasnt covered for the cost of her original flight back  to the UK. She 
was covered only for the extra costs shed  paid to travel home. She said it was fair for 
Mapfre to deduct  the cost of the refund Mrs S had received. Mapfre had offered to pay Mrs S 
£100 for the delay, which the adjudicator thought was fair. Mrs S didnt agree so the 
complaints come to me for review.
Ref: DRN03345732my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im likely partly  to uphold 
it.
Ill start by saying that Mapfre  hasnt sent us its assistance file. So Im willing  to look at any 
more evidence either Mapfre or Mrs S sends me in response to this provisional  decision. But 
based on the information Ive been  given Ill set out what I think is a fair settlement to this 
complaint. 
Mrs S has been clear and consistent from the start of her complaint about what she was told 
when she called Mapfre while abroad. On balance, I think its likely that Mapfre did tell Mrs S 
shed get the costs  for her original flight back as well as the cost of the new flights.  
But I dont think Mapfre gave Mrs S the correct  information  about paying for the original flight 
home. As our adjudicator  has explained, Mrs S is covered only for the additional travel  and 
accommodation expenses  she had to pay for when she was unable  to return on the original 
flights shed booked on 5 September 2017.
If I can explain, the cost of the original holiday isnt usually covered when someone isnt able 
to return home on their original return date.  I appreciate Mrs S bought the return  flights  to the 
UK while she was already  abroad. But she would always  have had to pay to fly home.  That 
cost isnt something that Mapfre has to pay for. And shed bought and paid for the return 
flight for 7 September before she knew her youngest childs  illness meant  theyd not be able 
to fly home  as planned. 
Mrs S did the right thing.  She called Mapfre to ask what  to do. And she tried to rearrange the 
flights shed already booked. If that had been possible then Mapfre would have paid any 
additional amendment  fee shed have  had to pay to rearrange the flights. But the airline 
wouldnt agree  to a change, so she had not alternative but to cancel the flights.
So I dont  think Mapfre had to pay Mrs S for the cost of her original flights  back to the UK, 
booked on 5 September. Thats the case even if it told her that it would pay for her the 
original flights. Shed  already paid for the flights,  and had no alternative but to cancel them  
because the airline wouldnt amend the dates. 
But I think Mapfre has caused  Mrs S some real inconvenience and distress.  If shed  known 
Mapfre wouldnt pay for the original flights home then she might  have asked Mapfre  to pay 
for the new flights home (with her husband paying separately for his flight home). That way, 
shed not have been out of pocket for so long by paying for two sets of flights  within  just a 
few days. 
Also, I think Mapfre was wrong  to deduct  the refund Mrs S received for the original flights  
from the amount  shed  paid for the new flights. This cant be right. Mapfre  cant deduct a 
refund Mrs S received when it wasnt paying  for the cost of the original flights in the first 
place. By doing  this, Mrs S simply isnt getting back the additional costs  shes paid  and 
thats what shes covered  for under the policys terms. 
I think Mrs S has been very frustrated  by the claim process and Mapfres handling of her 
complaint. It hasnt paid attention to what she was saying about the assistance companys 
advice to her. It has kept her out of pocket for a long time by wrongly saying it will deduct a 
Ref: DRN03345733refund from her additional costs. And Ive provisionally found that it misled her about what 
she could claim in the first place.  
I currently think a fair settlement in this case is for Mapfre to:
pay Mrs S the full cost of the additional  flights being IR 84,000 at the exchange rate 
that applied on 9 September 2017,  when she paid for the new flights. Mapfre must 
tell me the exchange rate in response to this decision and well let Mrs S know the 
pound sterling  amount  before  I issue  another  decision. If its not already done  so, 
Mapfre can deduct any applicable  policy excess from the claim payment. It must  then 
add interest to the claim payment  at the simple  rate of 8% per year from 9 September 
2017 when Mrs S paid for the additional  flights to the date it pays the claim.
pay Mrs S £300, in total,  for distress  and inconvenience, due to the disappointment 
and upset caused to her by misleading  her about the policy  cover, the delay in 
dealing with the claim, and by making  an unfair  deduction from her claim payment.
I dont intend to make Mapfre  pay Mrs S the cost of her original flights home; that is, the 
flights booked on 5 September  2017.  As Ive said, she would always  have  had to pay for 
these flights home as part of her holiday  cost,  and a refund  of the flights isnt covered  under  
the policy.
responses to my provisional  decision
Both Mrs S and Mapfre responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. Mapfre 
said it would  use the exchange provided  by a large currency  exchange  service.  Weve given 
Mrs S information about the exchange rate. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have accepted my provisional decision so I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in that decision. For the reasons set out in that decision I partly uphold  
this complaint and I require Mapfre  to take the steps  set out below. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision and in this final decision I partly  uphold this 
complaint. I require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. to pay Mrs S:
the pound sterling  equivalent of IR 84,000 at the exchange  rate that applied on 
9 September 2017, the date Mrs S paid for the new flights home. If its not already 
done so, Mapfre  can deduct any applicable  policy excess from the claim payment. It 
must then add interest* to the claim payment at the simple rate of 8% per year from 
9  September  2017 to the date it pays the claim; and
£300, in total,  for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN03345734Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Mapfre  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0334573