K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that a used motorbike she acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with 
Billing Finance  Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. She says she would like to reject the 
motorbike and cancel  the agreement. 
background
In March 2017 Mrs W acquired a used motorbike  via a four year hire purchase agreement  
with Billing Finance. The bike was nearly  14 years  old and had a mileage of 22,387.  Mrs 
W says the motorbike was for use by her husband,  Mr W, at weekends only and not for 
travelling to and from work.
At the time the motorbike was first collected  from the garage  Mr W noted that the 
headlight bracket was loose.  A new one was ordered and, although there was a delay in 
sorting this out, the new part was fitted  and the problem repaired.
In March 2018 the motorbike broke down. An inspection by another  garage showed 
there was an issue with the regulator  and that, together with other  electrical sundries, 
was repaired.  Mrs W did contact Billing Finance about the problem with the motorbike 
but was told that due to the passage of time since shed acquired the bike evidence  
would be needed  to show  the fault had been  present at the point of sale.
In April 2018  the motorbike broke  down for a second time. Smoke  and sparks  were seen 
to come from the engine  and a fault with the stator was found. This was repaired. But in 
the May the motorbike started to misfire and new spark plugs and the injector  being  
cleaned were required.
Three days later the motorbike broke down for a third time and a new battery  had to be 
fitted. Unfortunately the motorbike broke down again shortly after the battery was fitted 
and Mrs W says it hasnt  been used since as she is reluctant to pay for more repairs.
Mrs W contacted  Billings Finance who asked that she provide a report on the condition of 
the motorbike.  Mrs W obtained a report from the garage that had undertaken the repairs  
on the regulator and stator. This report said that the motorbikes  regulator had been 
replaced with an incorrect  one and that the motorbikes wiring  had been bodged  together  
and concluded  that I can only assume whoever carried out the work on this bike 
previously has little or no knowledge  of what they were doing.
Billing Finance  passed all the papers on the motorbike to an independent engineer  for an 
opinion as to whether the faults with the motorbike had been  present at the point of sale.  
The independent engineer said that taking into consideration the amount of time that had 
passed between  when Mrs W had acquired  the bike and the faults  becoming  evident that it 
is very difficult  to substantiate or prove the conditions  were present at the point of hire.
Billing Finance  told Mrs W that as result of the independent engineers finding it 
wasnt upholding her complaint. Mrs W complained to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. She said 
looking at the age and mileage of the bike and the time it had taken for the faults  to come 
to light that they were  more likely  than not due to natural wear and tear.
Ref: DRN08287762Mrs W disagreed  with our adjudicators view. She says that in the year shed had the bike 
in her possession  her husband had only ridden it for a total of 462 miles and she disputed 
the issues could  be due to fair wear  and tear.
As the parties  couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision  
along the following lines. 
Mrs W had acquired  this motorbike in March 2017  and Id seen that apart from the issue 
with the headlight bracket  there  had been  no problems for a year.
Id seen from the independent  engineers  report that it was accepted that the motorbike had 
required repairs to the regulator;  other  electrical sundries; a stator  had been replaced  as 
were the spark plugs  and the fuel system subjected to an injector clean.
The garage that had carried out these repairs for Mrs W said that they were due to poor 
repairs in the past and bodged wiring. Miss W said that the bike was currently  unusable 
and that a new complete wiring harness may be required  due to the past electrical faults.
Id seen that the independent engineer prepared their report from the paperwork only and 
hadnt actually  inspected the bike. Theyd  also made  an assumption about  the use of the 
bike stating theyd assumed the mileage was somewhat more  considerable  than the 
mileage at the point  of sale.  However, this appeared to be an incorrect  presumption  as Mrs 
W said the mileage was now only a little more than 450 miles more than it had been when 
shed first acquired the motorbike and I thought this was important. And although Id not 
seen evidence of the motorbikes current mileage I thought  it was likely that it hadnt  done 
very many miles since Mrs W acquired  it and so I accepted what Mrs W had said.
Looking at the amount of use the motorbike  had had I didnt think most  reasonable people  
would expect any parts to be affected by fair wear  and tear to the point theyd need repair. I 
appreciated a lack of use could give rise to issues with engines  but neither the independent 
engineer nor the garage had raised  that as a potential cause for the electrical faults. So I 
thought the poor wiring found  by the garage was the most likely cause of the motorbike 
breaking down  as frequently as it had.
The independent engineer said that it couldnt be established whether the poor repairs  had 
been done after Mrs W had acquired the bike. Mrs W said that the only repairs were the 
ones the garage  had undertaken  except for the battery.  I didnt have any evidence  to 
suggest that Mrs W was responsible in any way for the faulty wiring. I thought it was more  
likely than not that it was in that state  at the point of sale.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  goods that are supplied  must be of satisfactory  
quality and fit for purpose. I was satisfied  on the evidence that Id seen that the motorbike 
had a problem  with its wiring at the point  of sale. Mrs W said she would like to reject the 
bike but I thought  it would be fair to allow Billing Finance an opportunity to repair the 
motorbike first.
This was because Im unclear why the garage hadnt conducted a full wiring check when 
the first issue with the regulator had come  to light. Inspection of the motorbike appeared to 
have been piecemeal and that wasnt Billing Finances fault. If the garage had fully 
checked the wiring  when  the issue first arose then I thought it was likely all the faults 
wouldve come  to light and the motorbike repaired. But I also thought  it would be fair for 
Ref: DRN08287763Billings Finance  to reimburse  Mrs W for the costs of the repairs  carried  out on the 
motorbike so far.
Mrs W has had this motorbike for some time so I thought it would be unfair for her to reject 
it without establishing  if it could be repaired.  So I intended to ask Billing  Finance to cover 
the cost of the repairs that the garage found necessary to fix the wiring problem.
Mrs W hadnt been able to use the motorbike since May 2018  and although  I appreciated it 
wasnt used as a main means of transport  this would have caused  distress and 
inconvenience. I intended to ask Billing  Finance  to reimburse her the monthly  costs  under 
the agreement  from May 2018 until the motorbike  was repaired.
So for the reasons given  above I intended  to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Mrs W agreed with my provisional decision. Billing Finance didnt disagree with my 
provisional view but requested  that Mrs W obtain two repair quotes for the motorbike and 
provide, if possible,  some  evidence as to its current mileage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W provided a copy of the motorbikes MOT undertaken in March  2018 which  confirmed 
that from March 2017 until March 2018  the motorbike had only travelled around 460 miles. 
The motorbike had broken down for the final time in May 2018  and so I thought it unlikely 
that the motorbike  had been ridden excessively within those few weeks.  Billing Finance 
agreed with my view.
Billing Finance  has also said that taking into account the repair quote the motorbike wasnt  
economical to repair.  It agreed  that Mrs W could  reject  the bike and cancel the agreement. 
Billing Finance  will now collect it at no cost to Mrs W, repay her the deposit plus interest, 
reimburse Mrs W her monthly payments since May 2018 and reimburse her the costs of the 
repairs already carried  out on the motorbike together  with interest.
So Im upholding  Mrs Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN08287764my final decision
For the reasons  give above Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint and Im asking Billing Finance 
Ltd to do the following:
 Collect the motorbike  at no cost to Mrs W.
 Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay.
 Ensure there is no adverse information  about  the agreement  recorded on Mrs Ws   
credit file.
 Reimburse Mrs Ws deposit of £474.00  together with interest at the yearly  rate of 
8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
 Reimburse Mrs Ws monthly payments under the agreement from May 2018  until 
the date of repair as compensation  for the lack of use and the distress  and 
inconvenience caused.
 Reimburse Mrs W £528.73 being the costs of the repairs to the motorbike already 
undertaken. Interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple  is to be added to that amount 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
If Billing Finance Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should  tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0828776