K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that a car she is financing through an agreement with Northridge Finance 
Limited (Northridge) is of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Miss G took receipt of a used car in March 2018. She financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Northridge.  The car was five years old and had completed  just 
over 80,000 miles at this point.
But Miss G says she soon had problems with the car and that she told Northridge about this 
within the first 30 days, explaining that she wanted  to reject the car and terminate her 
finance agreement. The history appears to be as follows:
June 2018   rear suspension  arms and front strut bearings  replaced. Air conditioning 
re-gassed
July 2018   Miss G complains of intermittent starting problems; whining from the 
gearbox; a clunking  noise  and mismatched bumpers
August 2018   an independent engineering report  reviews Miss Gs July concerns 
but only finds issue with gearbox whining. Engineer  says a gearbox whine at speed 
and a scuffing  noise from the brakes  need  investigation
October 2018  dealership investigate and can only identify corrosion on disc brakes 
which they say clears with brake application
Northridge didnt think they needed to allow Miss G to reject the car. And they had no record 
of her asking  to reject it within 30 days. 
So Miss G referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  her opinion. 
She didnt  think there was sufficient evidence that the faults Miss G was complaining  of were 
present or developing at the point  of supply. She didnt think  it was reasonable to expect a 
car of this age and mileage to be fault free and thought there were likely to be some  
problems due to wear and tear. And she couldnt  find any evidence  that Miss G had tried to 
reject the car within the first 30 days.
But Miss G disagreed. She said it was wrong to suggest a car should  need £1,000 of repair  
work within the first 10,000 miles of ownership  and she therefore asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss G but I dont think theres enough  evidence  here for me to 
suggest Northridge take any further  action.  Please  let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN00952702board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss G acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the 
car should have  been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt  then Northridge are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But Northridges  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
The evidence Ive been provided shows that the car was first taken to the garage in June 
2018 and repairs  were carried out. Relevant  legislation allows Northridge one opportunity to 
repair a vehicle that has faults at the point of supply. As Miss G had only had the car for 
about three months at the time I think it was fair to suggest the faults that had presented  
themselves were developing when she took receipt of the car. They were repaired at the 
dealerships expense and I think this action  was reasonable.
Ive not been provided with any evidence to suggest  these repairs werent successful.
Not all of the issues  that Miss G complained  of in July were  confirmed by the independent  
engineer. He did identify a couple of noises but on further investigation the dealership  could 
only confirm the noise from the brakes. They said slight corrosion  was the cause  and they 
explained it went away with repeated  brake application. I dont think this is a reason to reject 
the car. Brakes are an item that I think its fair to say are subject to wear  and tear and after 
several months of use I think some  corrosion may have been expected. So I dont  think  it 
would be fair to suggest the problem was there  at the point the car was supplied  to Miss G or 
that Northridge have  any responsibility to reject  the car as a result.
Miss G says she contacted Northridge within the first 30 days to tell them she wanted  to 
reject the car. Ive not seen any persuasive evidence this was the case.
I can understand that Miss G may feel a car shouldnt  have £1,000  worth  of repairs in the 
first few months  of use. But legislation was on her side when that happened  and repairs  
were therefore arranged free of charge. Its the subsequent problems that Im afraid I havent 
been persuaded are a reason to reject  the vehicle. And I therefore dont think it would 
therefore be fair for me to ask Northridge to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0095270