K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS), trading as Audi Financial Services, 
has not been of satisfactory quality.
background 
Mr D took receipt of a new car in June 2018. He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS. 
He first returned the car to the dealership in November 2018.  He said that when the car was 
travelling at speed there was interference on phone calls. A repair was completed  but the 
problem remained.
He therefore complained  to VWFS and in April 2019 they offered him £349.10 in respect of 
the trouble and inconvenience hed experienced. They  also arranged for an independent 
engineer to look at the car. During  that inspection the engineer noted that the phone was 
placed near the heater vents and he believed that the increased air flow through the vents 
when the car was travelling at speed  was causing  the interference. He noted that moving the 
phone helped reduce this and he also suggested that Mr D should  obtain a mini SIM in line 
with the guidance in the cars manual.  The inspector said there were no faults with the car so 
Mr D referred  his complaint to this service and our adjudicator provided an opinion.
She said that as the independent  engineer  had confirmed there was no fault with the car it 
would not be fair ton expect VWFS to take any further action. She thought  their offer of a 
payment of £349.10  for distress  and inconvenience was reasonable.
Mr D didnt agree with the adjudicators  viewpoint and he therefore asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr D so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired  his car under a hire agreement.  The hire agreement is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
Ref: DRN06887942responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Im not persuaded that theres sufficient evidence of a fault with this car when it was 
supplied. I say that because the independent  engineer who is an expert in these matters has 
said so. He believed  the interference on the phone was a result  of the phones placement 
next to the heater vents and he suggested the problem improved when the phone was 
moved. He also suggested  a different  SIM should be fitted.  Ive not seen evidence  to 
contradict this view and I think its reasonable to suggest the placement  of the phone and the 
type of SIM it has are not related  to the quality  of the car Mr D has been financing.
In those circumstances I think VWFSs  offer of a distress and inconvenience payment is 
reasonable and Im not asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0688794