K820x#14complaint
Miss T and Mr F complain  about the settlement theyve been offered by 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) for their home insurance claim for damage  
caused to their floor by a water leak from their boiler. 
background
In April 2017 Miss T and Mr Fs boiler  (located in their hall) suffered a leak.  Miss T contacted 
RSA as she had home  emergency cover on her home insurance policy. An engineer 
attended the same day and stopped  the leak. A few days later he returned to replace a 
damaged part. 
In December 2017 Miss T contacted  RSA to make a claim for damage  sustained by her hall 
floor during  the leak. RSA accepted the claim and offered  to repair  the damaged flooring 
(80 year old oak boards). Miss T also spoke to a flooring  contractor who said he didnt think  
the repairs would be satisfactory. So Miss T said to RSA that she thought its offer of a patch 
repair would be a waste of time and she wanted all the wood flooring in her downstairs 
rooms replaced. RSA said the policy  terms didnt provide for the replacement of undamaged  
flooring. So it offered  to cash settle  Miss T and Mr Fs claim. 
Unhappy with RSAs  offer,  Miss T complained. RSA looked into the complaint and said it had 
spoken to its loss adjuster who had suggested  that it attempt to restore  the floor and then, if 
unsuccessful, to replace it. RSA said that any replacement  would be confined to the 
damaged hall floor as per the policy terms. 
Miss T and Mr F were  unhappy with RSAs findings so they complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into their complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld.  He thought it was 
only fair that RSA first be allowed to attempt a repair. 
Both RSA and Miss T and Mr F accepted our investigators view. RSA arranged for the 
repair. A few months later, Miss T contacted the investigator to say that the patch repair  
wasnt a satisfactory match to the rest of the all floor. Our investigator  referred  the issue 
back to RSA in November 2018. 
RSA looked into the matter and told Miss T and Mr F that it was willing  to replace the 
wooden flooring in the hallway as its initial repair had failed. It said its loss adjuster was in 
contact with their flooring  contractor regarding the quote Miss T had sent it. RSA reiterated 
that cover  under  the policy was only provided  for the damaged floor. 
Our investigator then set up a second complaint  this complaint  under a new case 
reference. 
Having reviewed the quote Miss T had sent it (totalling £5,024),  and spoken  to the contractor 
that had produced it, RSA noticed that it was for a much larger  area  50-60m2  rather than 
the 8.9m2 the loss adjuster had measured for the hall. RSA offered to cash  settle  the claim 
based on Miss Ts quote but only for 10m2  of damaged hall flooring (8.9m2 plus a little extra 
for wastage). RSA said it wasnt  liable to pay for the other areas of the ground floor that had 
the same  flooring but which were undamaged.  It paid Miss T £1,004.90.
Miss T told our investigator  that her main issue was with the damage caused  by the home  
emergency engineer when he came  to fix the boiler.  She said hed failed  to take steps  to 
Ref: DRN02794992mitigate the damage. Miss T also said she needed the whole  floor area replaced because 
shed been told by her contractors  that they couldnt replace the hall floor without installing a 
sub-floor first. She said this would  have the effect  of raising the floor by 1-2 inches and 
would cause a trip hazard between rooms.  She said this wouldnt be fair so she needed the 
whole of the floor her contractor had quoted for to be replaced by RSA. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended  that it be upheld in part. He 
thought there was no requirement for a sub-floor to be fitted  but he did think  RSA should, in 
fairness, follow this services approach to matching sets. That is to pay 50% towards the cost 
of replacing the undamaged floors. Overall he thought  that RSA should pay Miss T and Mr F 
£2,849.75 to settle the claim. And he didnt find any evidence that the home emergency 
engineer had caused the damage  to worsen in any way. 
Neither RSA or Miss T and Mr F accepted  our investigators findings.  RSA said the 
settlement proposed went way beyond its policy liability. It also said Miss T and Mr F didnt 
have a sub-floor  originally and nor was one required by building regulations. It said if one 
had been needed to effect a lasting repair then its own contractors wouldve identified  the 
need to have one but they didnt. Miss T said she thought the offer should  be at least  70/30 
and she was unhappy no recommendation of compensation for distress and inconvenience 
had been recommended.  She said she needed  all the areas replaced because  it would be 
unsafe to have different level floors downstairs. And Miss T said everyone  shed  spoken  to 
said a sub-floor needed to be laid first.
The complaint was passed  to me and I issued a provisional decision in which  I said I didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. I made the following provisional findings:  
Its not the role of this service to become involved in handling  a claim. Its our role to decide 
whether a financial business  in this case Miss T and Mr Fs home insurer,  RSA  has 
treated its customer fairly. Having  reviewed all the evidence in this complaint, I have to say 
that its my view that it has. Ill explain why. 
The principal  issue Miss T has with the repaired elements of her hall floor relate to the colour  
match. She was happy  with the finish and the workmanship involved but unhappy that the 
new boards were much lighter in colour than the original  ones.  
So we know,  as a result of the repair, that the floor is capable of a like-for-like replacement:  
new oak boards of the same type and fit as the original ones. So this implies that the whole 
of the hall floor can be replaced on this basis. No sub-floor was required to be inserted 
before the replacement  boards were  fitted  and Miss T says she was happy with the finish 
achieved (just not the colour). Nor have  I seen any evidence that the structural  integrity of 
the floor has been  compromised by this repair. 
It seems  reasonable to think that the contractors that Miss T has approached would prefer to 
first lay a sub-floor. But theres  no building regulation that requires one to be installed nor is 
a sub-floor currently present. 
So I think the boards  in the hall can be replaced on a like-for-like basis  without  the need to 
first install a sub-floor (just has been  done with the damaged boards already). This will mean 
the floor level will remain the same and it removes the issue  of any potential trip hazard. 
Ref: DRN02794993RSA has offered to settle this claim based  on the quote Miss T obtained (costing  £5,024). 
Ive not seen a copy  of that quote but I understand it is to replace 50m2 of floor and includes 
the installation  of a sub-floor throughout.  The hallway measures 8.9m2
RSA has offered to cash settle Miss T and Mr Fs claim by paying them £1,004.90 so they 
can replace their hall floor using  their own contractor. RSA says this amount is based on 
their contractors figures and allows for the replacement of 10m2 in order  to allow for some 
wastage. Given that just a very small area of the hall floor was damaged by the leak I think 
this is a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances of the case  and I cant  reasonably 
require RSA to do any more. 
Ive seen evidence  that RSA already transferred this amount to Miss Ts bank account. 
Miss T told our investigator  she wanted  to return the payment to RSA and asked him to find 
out RSAs bank details. I have  no idea if Miss T did return this amount. If she did, RSA 
should now pay it back to Miss T. If she didnt,  RSA need do no more. 
I note Miss T has also said most of the damage  was the fault of home  emergency  engineer.  
Im unable to agree.  I can see from RSAs file that the engineer  attended and stopped the 
leak from the boiler on the day it was reported  by Miss T. He then returned a few days later 
to replace a part. Ive seen no evidence that the engineer caused or exacerbated the 
damage.
RSA hasnt responded to my provisional  decision. Miss T has replied and made the following 
points:
The home emergency engineer didnt stop the leak and took 3 weeks  to get the new part 
fitted. This made  the damage worse;
She didnt go to RSA she went to the retailer (that sold the policy);
The retailer sent out 3 companies to look at the floor who noted that there was nothing 
under her oak boards but joists.  The retailer told her to get her own quotes;
Her tradesman she found said a sub-floor was required. She had him speak to the 
retailer when he was at her house.  All of the tradesman shes spoken  to about the floor 
say a sub-floor  must  be installed;
Only after her quote was given to the retailer were loss adjusters instructed;
The loss adjuster was rude and he wasnt a carpenter and he thought the floor could be 
fixed;
She had to take time off of work  to phone the retailer and wait in for trades;
RSAs contractor didnt check the joists for damage and he didnt  replace  all of the 
damaged flooring.  The joists could still easily be damaged;
She paid for insurance so that the insurer would repair or replace damage but this hadnt  
been done. Her floor was still damaged and her joists  remained unchecked;
She said she didnt  want cash, she wanted  her floor fixed;
The flooring  she would need  to buy is £60 per m2;
RSA paid her without her consent. Cash settling isnt part of the contract terms. She still 
has the money but would happily return it;
Only half of her downstairs rooms would need replacing. She would pay for the rest 
herself which is why she thought  RSA paying  50% towards the undamaged floors was 
fair;
RSA had agreed it was cheaper to replace all the floor (including the sub-floor)  than 
trying to match the floor like-for-like;
Ref: DRN02794994She has lived with the floor and peeling walls for years when she paid for a policy that 
said it would do everything for her  that was how it was marketed to her;
She would  just like her hall floor looking nice again.
The complaint was returned  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Whilst Ive thought about what Miss T has said in response to my provisional decision its not 
persuaded me to change my mind. 
I appreciate that Miss T contacted the high street retailer from who she bought the policy  to 
make her claim. Whilst the retailer is responsible for the sale and administration of the policy  
(sending out documents at renewal  etc.) the responsibility for deciding whether a claim is 
valid or not and, if so, how it should  be settled, rests with the policy underwriter. For Miss Ts 
policy, thats RSA. I can see that the policy documentation Miss T was sent makes that 
clear.
I note that Miss T says the home emergency  engineer didnt stop the leak but Im afraid the 
evidence (in the form of the attending engineers  call notes) Ive seen indicates the opposite. 
In the absence of any evidence that he failed to stop the leak,  it wouldnt be reasonable for 
me to ignore  the evidence  that Ive seen that indicates he had done so successfully. The call 
notes also indicate  that it took 3 days to get the necessary part. Im afraid that without 
documentary evidence  to show  it took 3 weeks to get the new part fitted, I cant reasonably 
ignore what the call notes say.
I appreciate that the tradesman  who quoted Miss T to replace  the floor said a sub-floor was 
needed. I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think  this was necessary and 
Miss T and Mr F have  said nothing new in response which  would lead me to alter my view in 
this regard. 
RSA is responsible for handling the claim.  If it wished to instruct loss adjusters at any point in 
the claim (in order to validate the extent  of its liability) thats its decision to take and not 
something I can reasonably criticise in the circumstances. I note that Miss T says the loss 
adjuster was rude. Unfortunately Ive not seen  any documentary  evidence that he was. Loss  
adjusters are experts  at assessing  all different types  of damage. Ive seen nothing that leads 
me to conclude that the loss adjusters view that the floor was capable  of being fixed was 
unfairly reached.
Unfortunately, all home insurance  claims, by their very nature, attract  a certain  degree  of 
inconvenience, thats to be expected. In terms of a policyholders suffering as a result of 
inconvenience, only where an insurer makes an already inconvenient situation worse would 
this service recommend  that compensation should be paid. Ive not seen any evidence that 
RSA caused Miss T and Mr F any additional inconvenience above and beyond  that which is 
normally associated with a claim of this nature. 
This complaint relates to the patch repair not matching. Ive seen no evidence that they floor 
joists were damaged  by the leak but in any event this is something Miss T and Mr F would 
need to raise with RSA first in order to give it an opportunity  to comment.  
Ref: DRN02794995The policy conditions set out the terms on which RSA will settle  valid claims. They state  that 
RSA will pay for the cost of repairing or replacing damaged  parts of the home or will make a 
cash payment as settlement. The policy says that choice is RSAs. In Miss T and Mr Fs 
claim, it has elected to cash settle  the claim based  on the quote Miss T sent it. The policy  
terms allow it to settle  the claim  in this way so I cant say it has treated them unfairly. 
I have to decide whether RSA has treated Miss T and Mr F fairly  in the way it has handled  
and settled their insurance  claim and I have to say  for the reasons I give here and those in 
my provisional decision (which now form part of this, my final decision)   I think  it has. I dont 
think I can reasonably require RSA to pay 50% (or 70%, as Miss T previously stated would 
be acceptable) towards the cost of replacing  the undamaged floors. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0279499