K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance  
(MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out an MPPI  policy with a mortgage (further  advance)  in 2003. They paid 
a monthly amount for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Js case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint because:
I think Lloyds made  Mr and Mrs J aware that they had a choice about buying MPPI and 
that they chose  to take it. Ive seen  that they both signed a separate application form, on 
which the level of cover (60%/40%  in Mr Js favour) was also selected. And they also 
had an option  to receive a quote  for MPPI or not. So although Mr and Mrs J say the 
adviser was persistent, Ive not seen  enough to suggest they didnt have a real choice.
Lloyds recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs J, and it seems to have been  right for 
them based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. In saying this Ive taken 
into account what they said about their sick pay  but I dont think this made the policy  
unsuitable.
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even  if it 
had, I think Mr and Mrs J would still have bought it.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mr and 
Mrs J dont appear to have been affected  by any of those  things.  
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Js comments  and I know they feel strongly  that they 
were coerced into taking the policy. But I havent  seen  strong  enough evidence to be able 
to conclude this is what happened. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Ref: DRN01576412Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0157641