K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) has unreasonably declined their claim on their 
home insurance for water  damage. Theyre also unhappy with how QIC has communicated  
with them.
background
Mr and Mrs M say they noticed  damp on their dining room wall in May 2018. They say they 
monitored it for a couple of weeks (in case it cleared  up) before notifying their insurer,  QIC. 
They say the damp  was caused by a leak in their neighbours bathroom.
QIC initially accepted  Mr and Mrs Ms claim but then, a few months later, declined it. It says 
Mr and Mrs M havent proved the damage  theyre claiming for was caused  by their 
neighbours bathroom leak. 
Unhappy with this, and with the way QIC had communicated with them during the claims 
process, Mr and Mrs M complained to us. The investigator who looked  at Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint didnt uphold it. She didnt think it was unreasonable of QIC to decline the claim 
based on the evidence it had available.  And she didnt think the way QIC had communicated 
with Mr and Mrs M had caused them anything other than minor inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs M disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I know this will 
disappoint them but I hope  the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion. And Id like to assure  Mr and Mrs M Ive reviewed  all the evidence  
on their case file very carefully.
My starting point is that, for Mr and Mrs M to make a successful claim on their home 
insurance policy, in common  with all policyholders,  they must show  that an event thats 
covered by their home insurance  most  likely caused  the damage theyre claiming for. On 
balance, and based on all the evidence Ive seen, I dont  think Mr and Mrs M have done this.
I can see Mr and Mrs Ms policy covers them for escape of water (as defined  in the policy). 
This is the insured event I think they need  to establish to be able to make a successful claim 
under the insurance. And its important to note that water loss thats gradual is excluded  from 
this cover.
In order to decide whether or not QIC has acted unreasonably in declining  Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim, I have  looked at all of the evidence. I think going through  this chronologically also 
shows to some extent why QICs assessment of the claim  changed  over time.
Mr and Mrs M say the damp  was caused  by their neighbours bath leaking, and this travelled  
down the inside wall of their home. They say their neighbours admitted liability for the leak 
and gave them their insurance details, which Mr M passed on to QIC. Mr M says the 
neighbours told him the leak was repaired in May 2018.
Ref: DRN01965212QIC appointed  a leak detector specialist company to survey  the damp.  It carried out a 
number of tests, including a salts test. These  were  positive for chlorides and negative for 
nitrates. It said this meant it was likely  the moisture on the wall was from a clean water 
source. It noted the salts test was for guidance  only and needed to be interpreted in the 
context of the rest of the findings. It concluded  overall that the water  damage to the dining 
room wall and the exterior wall occurred  due to a leak in the neighbouring property.
QIC accepted the claim. At the end of June 2018, the firm of contractors  whod been  
instructed to carry out the repair works emailed QIC to say Mr M was concerned water was 
still coming through from the outside. The contractor said the external wall was still wet and 
there was a concern the insulation and render on the outside of the gable wall was also 
holding water at the rear and trapping  water  between the insulation and the brickwork. The 
contractor said the external  wall needed to be dried before repairs could begin.
In July 2018, a damp management specialist company was appointed, it seems  to have 
carried out some drying works. In its report,  it also concluded water had been escaping  from 
the neighbouring propertys bath waste  although,  as with the previous inspections,  theres  
no evidence it inspected  the neighbours bathroom.  It said moisture had travelled in between 
the solid wall and cladding of Mr and Mrs Ms home,  had saturated that wall and migrated 
into the dining room.  But it also said that due to the age and construction  of the property it 
wouldnt be able to dry the external  wall but that natural drying  would occur after the building  
works were done.
From notes attached  to this report, QIC challenged  this specialists findings in three  emails  
between the end of July and mid-August. It said the report from the first leak detector 
specialist hadnt  found a leaking pipe and that all photos indicate penetrating/rising damp. 
Following these discussions, the damp management  company carried  out another 
monitoring visit to Mr and Mrs Ms home. A second  salts test was done, at QICs request. 
This gave  a positive  result  for nitrates  which the specialist technical adviser said in an email 
to QIC indicated rising ground  water. The adviser went on to say Mr M couldnt  give any 
evidence showing the alleged water damage had been caused  by the neighbouring  property. 
And he said that, while the test raised concerns over a failing  or non-existent  damp proof 
course, he was unable to say this was the only cause  of the damage.  He said he was unable 
to rule out ingression  from another source.
It was on this basis that, at the end of August 2018, QIC wrote to Mr and Mrs M declining 
their claim. It said it would reconsider the claim if Mr and Mrs M provided it with evidence  
that the leak in the neighbours bathroom  had caused  the damage.
After this, in January 2019, Mr and Mrs M got their own professional damp  specialist to 
report on the damage and the costs to repair it. This report  notes  staining  on the external 
wall from what  it says could be leaking rain water  goods above.  It also says there  were  signs  
of moisture on the party wall in the alley way which the specialists believe will have 
occurred due to the bath leak. " It says no other  external defects were noted at the time of the 
inspection that it believed could contribute to dampness  within the property. It says that while  
rising damp couldnt be fully ruled out, its thermal imaging shows a pattern which  indicates  
the cause of dampness to be due to water  ingress  issues which  we have been identified 
externally (rain water goods leak and previous  bathroom leak). The report also refers  to 
some dampness on the living room  wall near the chimney breast. This wall is at the opposite  
Ref: DRN01965213side of the house to the dining room wall where  Mr and Mrs M first noticed the dampness  
so it seems there may have been  rising damp  elsewhere in the property.
The last piece of evidence Ive looked at is a second report Mr and Mrs M got from another  
dampness specialist.  On looking at photographic evidence, this specialist said the internal 
very localised severe damage was not consistent  with long-term rising damp and that the 
localised algae and moss on the exterior wall also wasnt  consistent  with long-term rising 
damp. He said the fungal growth  present was consistent with very wet material  e.g. from 
flood, severe long-term wetting and not simple  capillary moisture  from rising  damp . He 
concluded that, whilst there may be rising  damp  present (there  may however be a perfectly  
functioning physical  damp proof course), the damage shown  in the photographs of May 2018  
is not consistent with this. It is, however,  far more consistent with a significant  source  of 
water being  or having been  present in a localised position.
Having highlighted  the main evidence here, I should  say it isnt my role to decide what has 
caused the dampness in Mr and Mrs Ms home.  Instead, its to decide if QIC has acted  
reasonably in declining their claim.
At the start of this decision, I said it was for Mr and Mrs M to show that an event thats 
covered by their insurance  in this case, escape of water  most likely  caused the damage 
to their home. I have  no clear evidence of the specific cause of the leak in the neighbours 
bathroom and nothing has been  provided  from Mr and Mrs Ms neighbours to confirm this. 
And I think the first specialist who assessed  the damage probably  relied  on what                 
Mr and Mrs M said in its findings. I say this because, in its report, it says it was unable  to 
investigate the neighbours bathroom.  Nor do I have any clear  evidence that the leak has 
been repaired, although I know Mr M says his neighbours told him it had been.
And when  I look at all of the evidence, including the often contradictory expert evidence  Ive 
highlighted above, it isnt clear to me that a bathroom leak most  likely caused the damage  
Mr and Mrs M are claiming for. From this evidence, its possible there are two other causes 
or contributing factors  rising damp  and a leak from the rain water goods. On the basis of 
the evidence I have  and I know this is hard for Mr and Mrs M (especially since, to begin 
with, their claim was accepted)  I dont  think QIC has acted unreasonably in declining  their 
claim. Thats because  I dont think Mr and Mrs M have done  enough  to show the bathroom 
leak was the most  likely cause of the damage.
I know that Mr and Mrs M are unhappy  that much of their communication with QIC was by 
phone, rather  than in writing.  And I think it wouldve been helpful  if QIC had made its 
specialists reports available to Mr and Mrs M sooner than it did and had explained to them  
the reasons for the additional scrutiny of their claim later on. But I cant  see that QIC delayed 
unreasonably in responding to Mr and Mrs M concerns. And overall  I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for QIC to move their claim forward as it did. I dont think Mr and Mrs M 
suffered anything beyond minor inconvenience  for these things, so I dont think QIC needs to 
award them any compensation for this.
Ref: DRN01965214my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2020.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0196521