K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained to us about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold to him 
with a credit  card by Canada Square  Operations Limited (Canada Square).
background
I issued a provisional decision on 20 November 2018 in which I stated that I didnt intend to 
uphold this complaint.  Both parties  were  given a chance to comment on it.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Ive considered my decision on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I think is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Having done this, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain the reasons for this. 
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the policy and based on the 
information thats been provided to us, Mr S met those rules. This means  that he was 
eligible for the cover and could have claimed  on the policy  if he needed to.
Next Ive considered  whether Canada Square made  it sufficiently clear to Mr S that the PPI 
was optional. Mr S applied for the card and the policy  online in 2004. Mr S told us that he 
didnt require the PPI.
From what  we know about how Canada Square  sold this type of policy,  Mr S would have 
been asked to actively choose  to take out the PPI. Canada  Square has given us screenshots  
of what the application screens would have looked like. Mr S would have viewed a screen 
which told him about the policy and asked him to select yes or no in order  to show 
whether he wanted  to take it out. In my opinion, having read this, its most likely that Mr S 
would have understood that it was open to him to decide against  the PPI. Based on all the 
available information,  Im not persuaded that its most likely that Canada Square  failed to 
give Mr S a clear choice.
Next, Ive looked at whether Canada Square recommended  the PPI cover to Mr S.  Mr S has 
told us that hes of the view that our adjudicator didnt make this issue clear to him. However 
in this case, I dont  need to determine  the issue of whether or not the policy  was 
recommended, because I think the policy  was suitable for Mr S for the following reasons.
Mr S told us he was entitled to sick pay and redundancy  pay from his employer. But if Mr S 
was too ill to work or was made unemployed, the PPI benefit would have paid out for up to 
12 months, a longer  period than his redundancy or sick pay. Moreover from what  he has told 
us about his circumstances, Mr S wouldnt have been affected by any of the main exclusions 
or restrictions in the policy.  So I think the policy would  have  been  useful for him.
Ref: DRN09387702In addition, Canada  Square was required to give Mr S information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading, so he could make the decision for himself about whether or not to take 
the policy. But again I dont think that Mr S would have been affected by the main  exclusions 
and restrictions under the terms and conditions. Also, the cost of the policy was comparable  
to the cost of other similar policies  available at the time. So on balance, I dont think  having 
better information would  have  dissuaded  Mr S from taking out the PPI. In summary,  this 
means I dont think that Canada Square  has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about  that. Because Canada Square didnt 
tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0938770