K822xcomplaint
This complaints about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit  
card in 1999. Mr C says American  Express Services Europe Limited (AmEx)  mis-sold  him 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI, AmEx had to make it clear to Mr C that he had a choice about taking 
it. But Mr C says the PPI was added without his knowledge or consent.
AmEx has sent us a copy of Mr Cs signed application form for the credit card. This included 
a section on PPI with a box to be ticked  if Mr C wanted to take it out. And theres a tick in the 
box. If Mr C didnt want to take the PPI I think he could have left the box blank. And Mr C 
neednt have signed the application form if he didnt agree with what  it said.
So I think AmEx did make it clear to him that he had a choice about  the PPI. And that Mr C 
chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
I dont believe AmEx  recommended the PPI to Mr C. This means AmEx didnt have to check 
if the PPI was right for Mr C. But it did have to make  sure he got the information he needed 
to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information AmEx gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like he 
would have been affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover.  Recently 
his representatives  argued he was self-employed   which would have  limited  his ability to 
claim on the policy  although the PPI questionnaire it originally provided, and its covering 
letter, suggested he was employed. Weve asked  for more information  in order  to clarify the 
position but nones been provided to date. In my view,  theres  not enough evidence to show 
he was self-employed  at the time of the sale.
The policy could have  paid out for significantly longer than Mr Cs told us his savings  would 
have kept him going. And hes told us he didnt have any other means  he could have used to 
make his repayments if he wasnt working.  Hes mentioned  critical illness cover but that 
would have paid a lump sum on diagnosis of a specified  illness  and wouldnt have paid a 
regular benefit  as the PPI would have. So I believe the PPI would still have been useful for 
him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put Mr C off taking it out.
Which means AmEx doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. But AmEx  
will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
Ref: DRN08791102AmEx  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr C about  that. Because AmEx didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, AmEx has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers  fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
AmEx has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done  so. AmEx should  also pay back  to Mr C 
any extra  interest  he paid because of that.
AmEx should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr C the difference  between  
what Mr C owes  and what he would have owed if the commission  and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. AmEx should also pay Mr C 8%* simple interest 
if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
I understand Mr Cs subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). His Insolvency  
Practitioner (IP) says they have an interest in any refund Mr C might receive. Mr C and 
AmEx should bear in mind Mr Cs obligations  to his IP in respect  of any redress  he receives.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr C any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0879110