K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Hargreaves Lansdown  Asset Management Limited (HL) delayed the 
transfer and subsequent investment of his pension. 
background
On 17 January 2018, HL received Mr Ws application to transfer his existing pensions  to HL 
and into drawdown.
Six days later HL wrote to Mr W confirming  that all three of his pensions were eligible for 
electronic transfer  and that it would be contacting his existing providers. The letter explained 
that it typically takes 10 days for transfers to take place but it can take longer.
HL sent the transfer request via the electronic transfer system on 23 January 2018.
On 31 January 2018, one of Mr Ws existing pension providers wrote to Mr W explaining that 
it required additional discharge forms to be completed before it could release his pension.
The funds from that pension were received by HL on 13 February  2018.  HL put
Mr Ws pension  into drawdown and placed  the investments  on 14 February 2018  the price  
secured was that of the next valuation point after that, which  was the next day (15 February
2018).
Mr W complained  that HL delayed the transfer of his pension by not sending  the forms (of 
the ceding provider) he had completed  and sent along with his HL application form  and, 
that once monies  were  received by HL it delayed the investment of those funds in line with 
his instructions. Also, the dealing process followed was not in line with what he was led to 
believe it would be.
HL did not uphold his complaint. It issued a number of letters, in summary, these said:
It did not delay  the transfer, it was not aware  that separate  discharge forms would be 
required, as these are not typically needed when electronic transfer requests are 
submitted.
The form submitted was for an annuity on the open market,  whereas Mr W was going 
into drawdown, so even if it had forwarded the forms he sent to HL, the additional  
forms would still have  been required.
There was no delay  in terms of implementing Mr Ws investment instructions, once 
the funds were available and the drawdown  account was open, the instructions were 
submitted and the next days price was applied in line with its standard  procedure for 
funds.
Unhappy with that response Mr W referred  his complaint to this service. His complaint to this 
service focused on the delay in transfer.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and concluded that it should not be upheld,  
broadly speaking she agreed with HLs conclusions.  She didnt think  that HL ought  to have 
known that the ceding  scheme would  require additional forms. She also didnt think  that it 
would have made any difference if HL had forwarded the form Mr W submitted along with his 
application, as this was for the open market annuity  option not drawdown.
Ref: DRN07622032Mr W didnt agree with the outcome reached, he said:
He had not previously  been informed that the discharge forms he submitted along  
with the application form were  wrong and he had seen no supporting  evidence  that 
these would not have been  accepted  by the ceding  scheme.
The letters sent to the ceding scheme made it clear that his pension was to be 
transferred into drawdown not to purchase an annuity and the forms it sent to him in 
response to this were  the ones that he submitted to HL, along with his application 
form and instructions, to ensure  the transfer happened in a timely manner.
HL did not follow the instructions and did not forward the completed  forms to his 
ceding scheme.
It took HL six days to submit the transfer request  this delay  has never been 
explained.
On 31 January 2018, he contacted  his ceding scheme because he was concerned 
that he had not heard  anything, at this point  he was informed that it had not received 
the release form required. He then contacted HL and it confirmed that it had not sent 
the forms he submitted  to the ceding  scheme.
He received another release form to be signed from his ceding scheme  on 
2 February 2018,  the wording within that is similar to that contained within  the forms 
he originally submitted and include the wording Open Market Option. So, HLs 
assertion that the original form was incorrect is not only unsupported but appears to 
be wrong.
If HL had followed his instructions the transfer would have completed around 
31 January 2018  in line with the other two plans he transferred  in.
I sent Mr W and HL my provisional  decision on 6 February 2019, explaining why I did not 
think the complaint  should be upheld. In summary I found that:
HL did not take an unreasonable amount of time to process the application form and 
initiate the transfer  process. 
It followed its standard procedure for electronic transfers and there  was no reason 
why it should not have  done.  
Whilst it is unfortunate that the transfer took longer than expected,  in this instance, 
the delay was not caused by an error on HLs part. 
Mr W disagreed.  During our correspondence with Mr W we received a number of 
submissions from him, broadly speaking, these covered the following points in relation to the 
merits of the complaint: 
The original pension  provider  was aware that he intended to transfer his pension  to 
go into drawdown with a different provider. It provided the trustee release forms 
(OMO) knowing  that it was Mr Ws intention to go into drawdown and it is reasonable 
to expect that these  would  have  been accepted for that purpose.  
He provided explicit  instructions  for HL to send the completed forms to the ceding 
scheme, it failed to follow these or contact him or his pension  provider  to check  what 
the required documentation was. 
Its own terms stipulate that HL will contact the ceding provider  to advise it of the 
transfer application, it failed to do this. 
By HLs own admission electronic  transfer  via Origo was the incorrect  course of 
action in this instance. 
Ref: DRN07622033The claim that a different trustee  release form would always have been required 
(because the one originally submitted  was for an open market  annuity)  is either  
unsubstantiated or there has been  a failure  to disclose key evidence him. 
There is no apparent reason why the original  discharge forms would not have  been  
accepted they were  substantively the same  as those subsequently  signed and 
accepted by the provider  and, once signed,  both achieve the same objective  the 
release of the pension funds to the named new provider (HL). 
HL originally rejected  his complaint  on the basis that it had acted in good  faith;  it is 
questionable whether this is sufficient  grounds for rejecting the complaint. 
On HLs website it says: "Most pensions can he transferred  without the need for 
more paperwork and the majority take just nine working days. We will let you know  
exactly whats happening  and when your pension is in the HL SIPP." Again, HL failed 
to comply with its own published  standard  it did not follow-up with the ceding  
provider even after nine days  and did not let him know exactly  what was happening.  
It was not until he contacted  the ceding provider  on 31 January 2018 to ask about the 
status of the transfer  and then contacted HL that HL admitted  it had not forwarded 
the original discharge forms. 
Without his involvement  the transfer would  have taken even longer. 
HLs errors resulted in an additional delay of around 14 days  resulting in him 
incurring a significant financial loss and HL should  remedy  this loss. 
As part of our investigation we asked for additional  information from the pension  provider 
that transferred  Mr Ws pension to HL (the ceding scheme),  in particular about the transfer 
process and the documentation required by it. Amongst other things, it confirmed  that: 
Once it received  the transfer  request from HL via Origo it attempted  to send the 
trustee discharge form/declaration by email  on 30 January 2018  but, unfortunately, 
the email did not go through  so the provider sent it by post on 31 January 2018.  
The declaration  was sent because, due to the nature of the plan, the trustee  
discharge declaration  would  always  have  been  required; and
That that would have been  the case even if the OMO form had been sent to it. 
We shared this information  with Mr W, he remained of the view that HL had failed to follow 
his instructions to his detriment  and, it had not been substantiated that the trustee 
discharge form of 31 January 2018  would still have  been  needed  if HL had followed his 
instructions. 
Because agreement  could  not reached, this case has been  passed back  to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  
in their entirety. However,  I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point  raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching 
them.
Ref: DRN07622034When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide  if the business has done anything  wrong  in 
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the 
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress 
and inconvenience  suffered by the complainant.
I remain of the view that the key question here is whether HL acted reasonably in how it 
went about processing Mr Ws transfer. 
Based on what I have seen, I think that HL followed its standard  procedure for requesting  
transfers. In this instance  due to the nature of the plan  further  documentation  was 
required; this does not necessarily mean  that HL erred in following its standard procedure.  
Mr W submitted  to HL a partially completed  copy of the ceding providers application form for 
OMO annuity purchase along with a cover  letter instructing it to send the form to the ceding  
scheme to request the transfer and an HL application form. The cover letter also confirmed 
that the transfer payment  release forms for the other pensions Mr W was transferring to HL 
which are not the subject  of this complaint  were  included. The instructions for the plans 
were the same and HL followed  its standard procedure  for cases  where electronic transfer is 
possible. As has been previously explained generally this process allows transfers  to go 
ahead swiftly without  the need  for paperwork. 
For this complaint to succeed I would need to conclude first; that HL acted unreasonably in 
following its standard procedure and, instead, ought  to have sent the completed paperwork 
to the ceding scheme  and, second;  that if HL had done this the transfer would have  
happened at an earlier date. 
I do not think that it was wrong for HL to follow its normal procedure and process the transfer 
in the manner that it did. 
There has been dispute as to whether or not the forms Mr W sent to HL would have been 
accepted without the need for the trustee declaration of 31 January 2018, signed by 
Mr W on 2 February  2018. In line with the above,  I do not think  that this is material to the 
outcome of the complaint  because I do not think that HL ought to have acted differently in 
terms of how it processed the transfer.  
That said,  we did ask the ceding  scheme if the additional trustee  declaration would still have 
been required if the forms Mr W sent to HL had been completed and sent to it and it 
confirmed that it would always have been required  due to the nature of the plan. So, even if I 
were to conclude that HL ought to have  acted differently, I am not persuaded that Mr W 
would be in a materially different position in respect of the timings  of the transfer.  But, to be 
clear, even if this statement were to be found to be incorrect,  this would not impact  the 
outcome of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN07622035This complaint is against HL so my findings  have focused  on its actions. I cannot reach any 
findings, in this instance, in relation to the ceding schemes actions or the information it has 
provided under this complaint. 
I understand that Mr W feels strongly about  this and that the findings I have reached will 
come as a disappointment  to him  but, I cannot fairly and reasonably uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr W complains  that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management  Limited (HL) delayed  the transfer and 
subsequent investment of his pension.
background
On 17 January 2018, HL received Mr Ws application to transfer his existing pensions to HL and into 
drawdown.
Six days later HL wrote  to Mr W confirming  that all three of his pensions were eligible for electronic 
transfer and that it would be contacting his existing  providers. The letter explained that it typically 
takes 10 days  for transfers to take place but it can take longer.
Ref: DRN07622036HL sent the transfer request  via the electronic transfer system  on 23 January 2018.
On 31 January 2018, one of Mr Ws existing pension providers wrote to Mr W explaining that it 
required additional discharge forms to be completed before it could release his pension.
The funds from that pension were received by HL on 13 February  2018.  HL put Mr Ws pension  into 
drawdown and placed the investments on 14 February 2018  the price secured was that of the next 
valuation point after that, which was the next day (15 February
2018).
Mr W complained that HL delayed the transfer of his pension by not sending the forms (of the ceding 
provider) he had completed and sent along with his HL application  form  and, that once monies were 
received by HL it delayed the investment of those funds  in line with his instructions. Also,  the dealing 
process followed  was not in line with what he was led to believe it would be.
HL did not uphold his complaint. It issued a number of letters, in summary, these  said:
It did not delay the transfer, it was not aware that separate discharge forms would be 
required, as these  are not typically  needed when electronic transfer requests are submitted.
The form submitted was for an annuity on the open market, whereas  Mr W was going  into 
drawdown, so even  it had forwarded the forms he sent to HL, the additional  forms would still 
have been required.
There was no delay in terms of implementing  Mr Ws investment instructions, once the funds 
were available and the drawdown account was open, the instructions were submitted and the 
next days  price  was applied in line with its standard procedure for funds.
Unhappy with that response Mr W referred his complaint to this service. His complaint to this service  
focused on the delay in transfer.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint  and concluded that it should not be upheld,  broadly 
speaking she agreed with HLs conclusions.  She didnt think  that HL ought to have known that the 
ceding scheme would require additional forms. She also didnt think that it would  have made any 
difference if HL had forwarded the form Mr W submitted along with his application, as this was for the 
open market annuity option not drawdown.
Mr W didnt  agree with the outcome reached, he said:
He had not previously  been informed that the discharge forms he submitted along with the 
application form were wrong and he had seen no supporting evidence  that these  would not 
have been accepted by the ceding scheme.
The letters sent to the ceding scheme made it clear that his pension  was to be transferred  into 
drawdown not to purchase an annuity  and the forms it sent to him in response to this were  the 
ones that he submitted  to HL, along with his application  form and instructions, to ensure  the 
transfer happened  in a timely manner.
HL did not follow the instructions and did not forward the completed forms to his ceding  
scheme.
It took HL six days to submit the transfer request  this delay has never  been explained.
On 31 January 2018, he contacted his ceding  scheme  because  he was concerned that he 
had not heard anything, at this point  he was informed  that it had not received the release form 
required. He then contacted  HL and it confirmed  that it had not sent the forms he submitted to 
the ceding scheme.
He received another release form to be signed from his ceding scheme on 2 February  2018, 
the wording within  that is similar  to that contained within the forms he originally submitted and 
include the wording Open Market Option. So, HLs assertion  that the original form was 
incorrect is not only unsupported but appears to be wrong.
Ref: DRN07622037If HL had followed  his instructions the transfer would have completed around 31 January  
2018 in line with the other two plans  he transferred in.
Because agreement could not be reached, the case  has been passed to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
It is clear that Mr W feels strongly  that HL could  and should have avoided the delay in the transfer of 
his pension. It is, of course, unfortunate when things do not go to plan particularly when  this results in 
a financial loss. It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business  has done anything wrong 
in respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint  made  and  if I find that the business  has 
done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress and inconvenience 
suffered by the complainant.
In his more recent  submissions Mr W said that the time it took for HL to submit the transfer request 
had not been explained.
Mr Ws application form was received by HL on 17 January 2018 and the transfer requested was 
submitted electronically on 23 January 2018. This fell over the weekend, so there were  only three 
working days between the forms  being received and the request being submitted.
I dont think that this is an unreasonable amount of time for HL to take to review the paperwork, 
undertake any initial checks it needed to and submit  the transfer  requests.
I think  the key issue here is whether or not HL should  have sent the forms Mr W submitted along  with 
his HL application form to his ceding  scheme when it submitted the transfer request or otherwise 
taken more  steps  to ensure that what it had sent was sufficient.
As our investigator explained, typically when transfer requests are submitted electronically,  there is no 
need for additional paperwork. In this instance  three transfer requests in respect of the three policies 
held by Mr W were submitted to two providers.  Two of the policies  were transferred in a timely manner  
and were received  by HL on 31 January  2018. The third policy, which is the subject of this complaint,  
was not received until 13 February 2018.
The provider of the policy in question  has confirmed  that ordinarily  what HL initially  submitted would  
have been sufficient for the transfer  to proceed  but, in this case, because  of the nature of the plan, 
additional trustee  discharge  forms  were required.
In this particular case, I have not seen enough to conclude that HL ought to have been aware of fact 
that additional forms would  be needed. So, I cannot reasonably conclude that it ought to have done 
anything other  than follow  its standard process when  submitting such requests  electronically, which  is 
what it did.
There has been some  debate as to whether or not the ceding scheme  would  have accepted the 
trustee declaration  included  within the paperwork Mr W sent to HL along with his application, which  
was specified as being  for taking an annuity with another provider.  There are similarities  between  the 
original declaration and that which was subsequently required  but they are not the same,  the latter is 
more detailed and does not specify that an annuity is being purchased. In any case,  having found that 
HL did not act unreasonably in not forwarding on the original form,  this point falls away.
Ref: DRN07622038I sympathise with Mr Ws position and his frustration at having lost out as a result of the time it took for 
the transfer to complete  but, for the reasons  I have  set out above,  I cant  fairly and reasonably  hold 
HL responsible for this. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
I will consider anything  either  party wants to add as long as I receive it by 20 February 2019.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0762203