K821x#15complaint
Miss E says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1997. The policy  was added  to Miss Es 
store card account  when she applied for the card in person.
 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Es case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Es complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Miss E wasnt eligible for the policy because shes told us she worked fewer than sixteen 
hours a week. This means the policy wasnt  of any use to her.
I dont think Miss E would  have bought  the policy if she had realised she wasnt  eligible. So, I 
think Miss E has lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
Ive taken into account FICLs comments, including what it said about  the employment  
information Miss E provided on her original  PPI questionnaire. FICL points out that Miss E 
didnt tick the box to say that she worked fewer  than sixteen hours a week. 
But Miss E ticked the box to say she was employed. I think  its possible she didnt notice the 
option to show  that she worked fewer than sixteen  hours a week,  because it was further  
down the list.
In addition, Miss E has given us details of her salary, and I think this suggests she was 
working part-time.
On balance, I think its likely that Miss E worked fewer than sixteen hours a week so she 
wasnt eligible for the policy.  
fair compensation
FICL should put Miss E in the financial position  shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss E would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
Ref: DRN03034762So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss E owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss E made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss E would  have 
owed when she closed her account  - from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss E would have owed each month without PPI  Miss 
E paid more than enough  to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Miss E paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when Miss E 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Miss E what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Miss E a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Financial  Insurance Company Limited to 
pay compensation to Miss E in line with the instructions above.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0303476