K821x#15complaint
Mr A on behalf of Mrs F has complained about the way a claim under a residential property 
insurance policy was handled by Covea  Insurance Plc and about the settlement it offered.
background
Mr A lives in Mrs Fs flat. He made a claim to Covea on her behalf for damage caused  by a 
water leak to her basement flat. The leak caused  the wooden  floor boards and joists  in a 
bedroom to become rotten. 
Covea asked Mr A to get three quotes  for repairs. Covea approved one of the quotes. Based 
on the lowest quote Covea paid Mrs F £1,127  to settle the claim for the flooring. 
The contractor who was instructed to do the flooring work removed the damaged wooden 
floor at a cost of £450. Mr A was unhappy with him and he was taken off the job. Mr A 
obtained two more quotes for the work  which were much more than the amount Mrs F had 
left from the cash settlement. 
Mr A thought  Covea  should accept responsibility  for the poor work  carried out by the 
contractor. Covea said the issue with the contractor wasnt its problem as Mr A had 
instructed him. But it agreed to check whether the cash settlement should  have  been  enough  
to reinstate the floor properly. After doing so, it agreed to pay an additional amount based on 
what its supplier advised  the repair should cost. Mr A thought Covea should add on £450 
since he said Covea had advised him to pay that amount  to the contractor.  Covea said it 
hadnt told Mr A to pay that amount  for the first part of the works. So it refused to pay the 
same amount again.
Mr A was also unhappy that Coveas revised settlement offer didnt include anything  to 
reinstate the subfloor. Covea suggested  that the subfloor might have been  damaged  by the 
original contractor since it thought debris  in the garden left by the contractor had come  from 
the floor of the bedroom. So it didnt think it was liable  for that part of the work.
As Mr A wasnt happy with this response, he brought Mrs Fs complaint to this service. He 
also asked us to consider  awarding Mrs F for the rent that shed lost as a result of the 
bedroom not being fit to live in. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  Covea had instructed the 
original contractor to carry out the repairs. So she thought it was reasonable for it not to 
accept responsibility  for the problems that arose  with him. She also didnt think Covea  would 
have told Mr A to pay £450  to the contractor, so it was entitled to deduct that amount from 
the further settlement it made. She didnt think Covea was liable to pay Mrs F for loss of rent.
As Mr A didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN00511702liability for the original  contractor
It was up to Covea  how it chose to settle  this claim  whether by carrying out repairs itself or 
by paying the policyholder a settlement to enable  them to have the works carried  out. Where  
a contractor is appointed by an insurer, they become responsible  for that contractor. So if 
theres a problem with the contractors work, the insurer is responsible for sorting it out.
If I thought Covea had controlled  the contractor, then I might say that Covea was 
responsible for them even  if it didnt technically appoint  them.  I might think  Covea had 
effectively controlled the contractor if it had negotiated with the contractor on the extent 
and/or cost of the work or told it to use certain methods or materials.  That didnt happen 
here. If, as in this case, the insurer  simply agreed to pay the contractors  bill and had no 
other involvement with them, then I dont think its fair to hold the insurer responsible  for the 
problems that arose  with the contractors work.
Mr A is also unhappy that Covea deducted  the £450  he paid to the original contractor from 
its final settlement. His recollection is that Covea told him to pay that amount. Unfortunately  
theres no record of the telephone conversation in question. On balance I think  its unlikely 
that Covea would have done  that although Mr A may have misunderstood the conversation. 
Covea had already paid the original settlement amount, so I think  its more  likely that it 
simply noted what work had been carried out at that point rather than advising Mr A how to 
proceed. Since Im not persuaded  that Covea told Mr A to pay the contractor £450, I see no 
reason why it should be liable to pay that amount  twice.
sub floor
Mrs Fs original floor seems to have  consisted  of laminate laid on top of timber floor boards. 
The floor boards were  laid on timber  joists. Underneath the joists were  flagstones  which 
appear to have had some  sort of screed on them. The laminate, floor boards and joists were  
all clearly damaged by the leak and needed  to be replaced.  The issue is whether as part of 
the claim Covea should  also pay for the flagstones to be replaced  by a concrete slab.
Covea settled the claim originally on the basis of quotes supplied by Mr A. They didnt refer 
to any work  relating to replacement of the sub floor. But the quotes  he obtained after the 
floor boards  and joists  had been taken  out were all based on removing the flagstones, 
putting in insulation and a new screed  before laying a new floor on top of the screed.
Mr A told our investigator:
The original plan was to reinstate the wooden floor which would have involved pulling up the 
stone flags, digging down, installing a sub floor with insulation then probably replacing the 
stone flags (we had mixed  views on whether we would need to do this to adhere to building  
regs) then replacing the wooden floor.
Mr A said that another option which he thought wouldnt fall foul of building regulations would 
be to reinstate the stone floor and use that instead of a complete sub floor and wooden floor 
rebuild.
Im not satisfied that it was necessary to replace the existing sub floor in order to put Mrs F in 
the position she was in before the damage  happened or in order to provide her with a lasting 
and effective repair. So I think  it was reasonable of Covea to refuse to pay for this in its cash  
settlement.
Ref: DRN00511703loss of rent
Ive also considered whether Covea is liable to pay Mrs F for loss of rent. The policy  does 
cover loss of rent. However,  the bedroom  wasnt occupied when the leak happened  although 
Mr A says hed had people staying in it from time to time. So I cant  be sure that it would 
have been rented out in future.  I also appreciate that because the bedroom  wasnt  repaired, 
after some time Mrs F let Mr A pay a reduced rent for the flat. But Im not persuaded that 
loss of rent was a direct result of the insured damage or any failure on Coveas part as 
opposed to avoidable delays. Thats because Covea  made  the original cash settlement in 
March 2016. But it wasnt until February 2018 that Mr A went back  to Covea and asked it to 
increase the settlement.
other claim
Our investigator made  some findings  in her initial view regarding  a different claim that Mrs F 
made for damage to the bedroom walls and ceiling caused by another leak. Since Covea 
hasnt considered a complaint about that claim, in her second view the investigator said 
Mrs F should raise that with it first and if shes not happy with the outcome,  she may wish to 
bring a further  complaint to this service. I agree with that. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A on behalf  of 
Mrs F to accept  or reject  my decision before 28 May 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0051170