K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  provided poor customer  service when he 
applied for a loan.  As a result  he says his credit score has been adversely  affected.
background
Mr H applied for a loan with HSBC  that was advertised with an APR of 3.3% but they only 
offered him a loan at 10.9% APR. He was disappointed, especially as he already had a loan 
with them  at 3.3% and had been banking with them for over 25 years. So he called them  and 
they wrongly told him his first application wouldnt affect his credit  score and he should  apply 
again in a few days. So Mr H followed their advice but even then he was only offered  7.9%.  
He was disappointed that HSBC couldnt  explain why he wasnt offered their advertised  rate 
and he was also disappointed that they failed to return his calls.  
HSBC said the APR they offered was system  generated  and based on the amount of risk   
Mr H represented. They apologised for the error theyd made when  advising  Mr H his credit 
file would not be affected and they apologised for being unresponsive too. They offered Mr H 
£200 to compensate him for the distress  and inconvenience their actions had caused him 
and they also promised to remove any records of the hard searches theyd made  from his 
credit files.
But Mr H was still unhappy.  He explained  that hed managed to secure the loan for the full 
amount and at 3.3% APR with another  company  and he couldnt understand how HSBC  had 
arrived at their decision. He thought their offer of compensation  was too low given the poor 
service hed received  and he therefore referred  his complaint to this service and our 
investigator took a look at the evidence. He recognised that HSBC had made mistakes but 
he thought theyd responded appropriately and the compensation  theyd offered was 
sufficient in the circumstances. 
But Mr H disagreed. He said hed been treated poorly by HSBC and had been unable  to 
move forward with his plans whilst he was waiting for them  to get back  to him. He was very 
disappointed with the misinformation  hed received  from the company and he couldnt  
understand why he couldnt be offered a new loan at 3.3% APR when he already had one 
with them  at that very rate. So he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that HSBC have  not provided satisfactory  service here but I think the level of 
compensation they have awarded is sufficient  in the circumstances. Im aware  that Mr H will 
be disappointed  with that decision and I understand he feels  strongly about his complaint; so 
please let me explain  why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN06168632The decision  to offer a loan,  and the rate of interest charged, is an operational, risked based,  
decision that the business are entitled  to make and that I cant  interfere with. I would explain 
that one of the reasons  businesses are reluctant to release details, of the algorithms they 
use to develop these  decisions, is because that would expose  them  to consumers being able 
to manipulate the systems they operate. So I dont think it would be reasonable for me to 
suggest HSBC  have done anything  wrong when not explaining their lending processes or 
their decision  not to authorise  a loan at the rate Mr H had hoped  for.
I note that their advertisements also referred  to the fact that the APR would be subject to 
credit checks and may change. So I dont think the loan was misrepresented.
But its clear that they shouldnt  have  advised Mr H that his first application would not impact 
his credit rating; as it would clearly show on his credit file. Its also clear that their 
responsiveness has been less than satisfactory  and Mr H has had to chase them  and has 
been kept waiting.
But HSBC  have offered to remove  any damaging hard search  records so hes not been  
disadvantaged and I think the £200 compensation theyve offered is reasonable having 
taken all of the circumstances into account. So, whilst  I uphold  Mr Hs complaint, I wont  be 
asking HSBC to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell HSBC  UK Bank Plc, unless 
theyve already done so, to pay Mr H £200  to compensate him for the distress  and 
inconvenience their actions have caused  him. They should also remove any reference  to the 
hard searches they performed during the loan applications which are the focus  of this 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0616863