K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about the quality of the repairs to his car and the service he received
following a claim against his motor insurance  policy with esure  Insurance Limited.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  April 2019, an 
extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I wont repeat that 
information here. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I thought  Mr Ss complaint should be upheld  and 
what esure should do to put matters right. I invited both parties  to let me have any further 
comments and evidence.  Mr S said:
He was concerned about esure managing  any part of the resolution  of his complaint.  
He chose a garage to undertake the inspection and repair of his car. 
He provided a copy of the invoice he paid in December  2018.
esure said that it still felt that the inspecting  engineer  should be independent  of the repairer 
but it didnt want  to delay matters further,  so it accepted  the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note esures comment about  keeping the inspection and repair  separate  but, for the 
reasons I explained  in my provisional  decision,  I dont think  thats reasonable here.  
I understand Mr Ss misgivings about esures  continued involvement but I remain of the view 
that its reasonable and appropriate  for esure  to instruct an engineer  of Mr Ss choosing.  
Considering everything, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision. As the repairs to date have been unsatisfactory, esure  should  put 
matters right in the way I indicated in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mr Ss
complaint. I now require esure Insurance Limited  to;
instruct  an engineer of Mr Ss choosing to inspect and repair/rectify Mr Ss car and 
cover the cost of that;
during the inspection  and repair/rectification work, provide Mr S with a courtesy or hire 
car of a similar type to his own car;
waive  the additional excess due under the policy;
pay Mr S compensation of £150  in addition to the £250 it has already paid;
Ref: DRN07403272on production of an appropriate invoice, reimburse Mr Ss reasonable claim for repair  
work hes already paid for;
deal with Mr Ss reasonable claim for property  damage caused by water ingress.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN07403273extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of the repairs  to his car and the service  he received following  a claim 
against his motor insurance  policy  with esure Insurance Limited.
background
In early January 2018,  Mr S was involved  in an accident that wasnt his fault. He made  a claim  against 
his motor insurance policy. esure instructed its authorised repairer to repair  Mr Ss car.
I understand that esures authorised repairer returned the car to Mr S in mid February  2018.  Mr S 
wasnt happy with its condition and refused to accept it. Mr S said that the driver and passenger 
headrest safety feature was still deployed, there was no tinting in the rear windscreen and the car was 
dirty inside and out.
The authorised repairer returned the car to Mr S a week later but Mr S still wasnt happy with the 
repairs. He said that the documentation hadnt been updated to show what  had been done and he 
had no reassurance that the headrest safety feature had been repaired. Mr S has also mentioned the 
rear windscreen washer system and leaking screen wash. He said that hed lost confidence in esures 
authorised repairer.
In April 2018,  esure asked an independent engineer to inspect Mr Ss car. The independent engineer  left 
several messages for Mr S but when he returned the calls, he wasnt able to make contact.  In early July 
2018, esure offered to instruct another independent engineer but the inspection still hasnt happened.
Subsequently, the authorised repairer contacted Mr S and told him that a part had now arrived  for his 
car. Mr S was troubled  by that, as he wasnt aware this part was due to be replaced  and hes 
concerned that the authorised repairer  has missed other issues.
Mr S wants his car repaired.  He says that hes lost confidence in esures approved  repairers so hed 
like his car to be independently inspected. Mr S says that this matter has caused him inconvenience,  
anxiety and distress.
Our adjudicator didnt think that esure had acted fairly. He said:
It was fair to allow  an independent engineer to decide whether Mr Ss car needed  further work- 
whether due to the accident or the repairs.
If the engineer identifies work is required, esure should cover the cost of the repairs and provide 
Mr S with a courtesy or hire car, materially similar  to his own car, for the duration of the repairs.
The delay  in instructing an independent engineer isnt fair or reasonable;  esure should  apologise 
for that and pay Mr S compensation of £150.
Given  the difficulties so far in arranging for an independent engineer to inspect Mr Ss car, esure  
should arrange  an appointment  at a time and place convenient  to Mr S.
Mr S suggested that his local dealership inspect his car. The adjudicator  asked esure whether it would 
agree to that. Esure said that it agreed with the adjudicators recommendations but that it wouldnt 
agree to Mr Ss local dealership inspecting the car, as it wouldnt be independent,  as it would carry  out 
any further work.
Mr S also said that the adjudicators recommendations didnt go far enough. He said:
Its accepted  that his car is still faulty.
He has total lack of confidence  in several  aspects of the faults/repairs and there are multiple 
unresolved faults.
He doesnt  think  its appropriate to give esure another chance to put matters right.
Ref: DRN07403274He would prefer that he arrange an independent inspection and repair of his car and esure cover 
the cost of that.
Hes suffered considerable  distress  and anxiety about the safety of his car.
It wasnt  that he hadnt been able to arrange an inspection with the independent engineer suggested 
by esure- hed done  all he could  to contact it and called them on ten occasions, to no avail.
Hed had some of the faults repaired at a cost of £330 but other faults remained.
The adjudicator said that it would be a fair outcome for Mr S to manage the inspection  and repairs  
identified by the engineer  as caused by the accident or poor quality repairs. Esure  agreed provided  
that the engineer is independent. The adjudicator thought that was fair.
Mr S didnt agree.  He said that the adjudicator was asking  esure to fulfil contractual  obligations it had 
already had over a year to complete. He asked  that an ombudsman look at his complaint, so it was 
passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that the repairs to date have been unsatisfactory. It remains for me to determine 
how esure should put that right.
esures authorised repairer had an opportunity to put matters right but didnt do so. esure then 
suggested an independent  inspection but there was great difficulty  in arranging that. Ive seen nothing 
to indicate that Mr S is responsible for any of the difficulties he encountered in contacting the 
engineers suggested by esure.
Mr S wants to instruct an engineer  to carry out an inspection of his car and the rectification work  and 
for esure  to pay for that. In the circumstances here, I think its reasonable for Mr S to choose the 
engineer and for esure to pay for the inspection and any repair or rectification work  related to the 
accident or the unsatisfactory repairs. I think the same engineer may do both the inspection and 
repair or rectification work.  I understand esures point about separating the inspection from the repair 
or rectification  work but, given whats  happened to date,  I think it would  be unduly troublesome and 
time consuming for Mr S to choose an engineer  to inspect his car and then a separate  one to carry  
out any repair  or rectification work. I think it would be unreasonable to expect  Mr S to do that.
Having said that, I think esure should instruct an engineer  of Mr Ss choosing to inspect the car. 
Thats because it has the background and documentation about the damage caused by the accident 
and the work  it originally authorised. Once the inspection has taken place, esure- and, indeed, Mr S, if 
he wishes to- can put questions to the engineer  or clarify matters. If the engineer  identifies  repair or 
rectification work arising out of the original accident or subsequent repairs, esure  should authorise the 
work and cover the cost of that.
While Mr Ss car is being inspected  and repaired, esure should provide Mr S with a courtesy or hire 
car of a similar type to his own car.
Under the terms of Mr Ss policy,  if repairs are completed by a repairer  not recommended  by esure, 
theres an additional excess of £200. esure should waive  that in this case.
It appears that esure paid Mr S compensation  of £250. I think that the adjudicators recommendation  
of additional compensation of £150  is fair. In reaching that view,  Ive taken into account  the nature, 
extent and duration  of the distress and inconvenience  in this case.
Ref: DRN07403275Mr S has referred to having paid £330  for some  of the repair work.  Its not clear to me what that repair 
work related  to. On provision  of an appropriate invoice  and provided that the repair  work was related 
to the accident or repairs, esure should reimburse Mr Ss reasonable claim  and take those repairs into 
account when it instructs  the engineer of Mr Ss choosing.
Mr S has also mentioned damage to property caused by water ingress and esure has previously  
agreed to cover the cost of that. esure should deal with Mr Ss reasonable claim  in relation to 
damaged property, if it hasnt already done so.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, my provisional  decision is that I intent  to uphold  
Mr Ss complaint and direct  esure Insurance Limited  to;
instruct an engineer  of Mr Ss choosing to inspect  and repair/rectify Mr Ss car and cover the 
cost of that;
during the inspection and repair/rectification  work, provide Mr S with a courtesy or hire car of a 
similar type to his own car;
waive the additional excess due under the policy;
pay Mr S compensation of £150 in addition to the £250  it has already paid;
on production of an appropriate invoice,  reimburse Mr Ss reasonable  claim for repair work hes 
already paid for;
deal with Mr Ss reasonable claim  for property  damage caused by water ingress.
In response to this provisional decision, Mr S may wish to provide our adjudicator with the contact 
details of the garage of his choice, the invoice  hes already  paid and his claim for damaged  property, 
for onwards  transmission  to esure.
Ref: DRN0740327