K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Mrs C have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C and Mrs C took out their mortgage in 1998 and did not buy PPI at that time. It was in 
2001 that the policy was taken out.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C and Mrs C disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr C has said that, in the context of general banking malpractices at the time,  this service 
should align  itself with the weakest party ie. the private individual as opposed to the bank.  
But this service is impartial and I make my decision based on the available evidence and 
what I think is most likely  to have happened.
There is some inconsistency  in Mr Cs recollection  of the sale,  which is not surprising given 
the passage of time. He initially said that the PPI had been taken out when the mortgage  
was first arranged in 1998 and has said both that it was added  without  their knowledge and 
that they were  bullied into having it. When Mr C was told that the policy was actually taken 
out in 2001, he recalled  having annual financial review meetings with Lloyds and thinks this 
is when he would have  been sold the policy. Overall Im not persuaded that Mr C has any 
particular memory of the sale,  which as Ive said, is not surprising.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of the paperwork from the sale.  The PPI application form 
appears to be a postal  form that Mr C and Mrs C had to complete  and return. However, the 
form was sent to them (as opposed to it being  a form that they just picked up in a branch) 
and included  pre-printed details such as their mortgage account number and the monthly  
cost of the policy, so I think its most likely that there was a meeting in branch prior to the 
form being sent out to them.
Mr C has queried how our adjudicator  could  conclude that the policy  was presented  as 
optional. The couple didnt arrange  any extra borrowing in 2001 and their mortgage  had 
already been running for three years at that point. So they would have known that the PPI 
was not a condition of any lending.  The application  wasnt completed during the branch 
meeting, instead  the couple  filled in the form in their own time, at home.  It seems  to me that 
if they didnt want  the policy,  they simply didnt need  to return  the form.
Mr C remembers  annual financial review meetings being set up and he says that these were 
used as an opportunity  to cross sell him different  products.  And I think  Mr C would have 
understood these  products to be something that he could have, rather than something  that 
Ref: DRN06819962he had to have.  On a balance  of probabilities,  I consider it more likely than not that the 
adviser presented  the policy as an optional extra. I am not persuaded that it is more likely  
than not that the adviser incorrectly  (or inadvertently) told them that they had to agree to the 
PPI. Overall I think that Mr C and Mrs C probably  decided to buy the policy, knowing that 
they didnt have to, even  if they no longer remember doing so.
As the sale began with a branch meeting, it is likely  that Lloyds advised Mr C and Mrs C to 
buy the policy. Therefore  in recommending  it to them, it needed to ensure that the policy met 
the couples needs. Lloyds would have  had some information about the couples financial 
circumstances. But theres no record of the meeting, so I dont know  what steps,  if any, 
Lloyds took to assess the wider suitability of the policy. But, I am satisfied from the evidence  
about the couples circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Mr C and Mrs C were both eligible for the policy, and they completed  the check list on the 
application form to confirm that was the case. 
The exclusions and limitations did not make the policy unsuitable. There  was nothing about 
Mr C and Mrs Cs employment that would have made it difficult  for them to make  a claim. 
And neither of them had any pre-existing medical conditions that might not be covered by 
the policy.
Both Mr C and Mrs C would have received nine months sick pay from their employer if they 
were unable to work. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than they would  have received full pay for. Whilst the couple  had some savings, 
having the policy would have allowed them to retain these or use them  to cover  any other 
household outgoings at what would  have been a difficult  time. The couple  elected to have a 
benefit split of 25/75 % in favour of Mrs C and so it looks as if some consideration was given 
to their needs at the time.
A mortgage is a significant financial commitment, and the consequences  of defaulting on a 
mortgage can be very serious. So it wouldnt  be surprising if Mr C and Mrs C had an interest  
in protecting their repayments. As I am satisfied  that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
them, I cant conclude that it was wrong  of Lloyds to recommend it.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds gave Mr C and Mrs C sufficient information about the 
policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds was recommending  to them and make  an 
informed decision about whether to follow that advice and take out the policy.
I think it is more  likely than not that there was some discussion about the policy  Lloyds was 
recommending and that the couple expressed  some interest  in the PPI  the result of that 
discussion being that Mr C and Mrs C were sent an application form. The couple may not 
have known all there was to know about the policy, but it is unlikely they decided to take it 
without knowing anything  about it at all. Mr C says that he considers himself to be financially 
savvy, and both he and Mrs C work  for a financial services firm, so they might be better 
placed than most people  to give consideration to any financial  products that they were being  
offered.
The monthly cost of the policy  was stated on the application  form that the couple signed.  
And I am satisfied that Mr C and Mrs C were probably given a broad  description of what  the 
PPI was intended to cover  (that is that it would protect their mortgage  repayments if either of 
them was unable to work through accident,  sickness or disability). I have reached this 
Ref: DRN06819963conclusion because I think  it is unlikely  that they would  have  taken out the policy  without any 
sense of what the policy was for or how much  the premium might be.
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy. So in those  circumstances, deciding whether Mr C and Mrs C have suffered any loss 
depends primarily on whether, if Lloyds  had explained things properly, the couple  would 
have acted differently,  or whether they would  have taken  out the policy in any event.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr C and Mrs C clearly  had some interest in taking 
out PPI. And whilst the couple may have not known some things about the policy,  I am 
satisfied the ultimate  position in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what  
they would  reasonably have thought  from the advice and information  they based  their 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not that Mr C and Mrs C would still have taken out the policy.  It was suitable for them and 
could have met their needs if Mr C or Mrs C were unable to work due to accident, sickness  
or unemployment. Therefore I dont think they have suffered any loss as a consequence of 
how the policy was sold. It follows that I do not uphold  Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0681996