K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about the fees he was being  charged by Nationwide  Building  Society,  even 
though his investment had been sold to a new business responsible for the administration  of 
it. 
background
In my provisional decision of 22 November  2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this, my final decision, I said I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. In short, I said I 
wasnt persuaded that Mr O was paying  optional charges (without his knowledge or 
otherwise) or any charges  that Nationwide wasnt providing a service for.
Nationwide responded but had nothing further to add. 
Mr O also responded and said he doesnt  remember ever seeing any correspondence from 
Nationwide that he could contact it for advice. This is his main complaint that he doesnt 
think was considered by the ombudsman. If he was aware he could receive advice he would 
have made  use of it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of the responses from the parties, my conclusion regarding  the non-
uphold, remains as set out previously, and for the same reasons. 
Despite what Mr O says, I dont consider  that any new points have been raised, other than 
those key points  already  made and considered by me in my provisional decision.  Ive 
considered all the points that I consider relevant  to my decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 December  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN06507292COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr O complains about the fees he was being charged by Nationwide Building Society, even though 
his investment had been sold to a new business responsible for the administration  of it. 
background
In 2007, Mr O received  investment advice from Nationwide. As a result he agreed to invest  into a 
stocks and shares ISA, with his money invested in funds managed by Nationwide. 
Nationwide continued  to manage  Mr Os investment until 2008, when it sold the investment to Legal  & 
General (L&G), when Mr O thought  Nationwide  would no longer  be involved.  In 2016 L&G sold it on to 
AEGON. 
In due course Mr O received documentation from AEGON showing that Nationwide was still being  
paid commission from his account.  He  doesnt understand why hes paying an optional fee when 
hes never opted to pay it.   
Mr O complained to Nationwide because he didnt know what the fees were for, and didnt think  
Nationwide was entitled to the fees as it no longer had anything  to do with his investment.  
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint.  In its final response letter  (FRL) it made  the following  key 
points:
The fees for ongoing  advisory services were optional. 
The fees in relation to the ISA were  for the cost of the ongoing advisory services [Nationwide]  
provided and which may have been sought,  or requested by [Mr O]. 
In Appendix 2 it set out a detailed breakdown of what Mr O could expect  for his money.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr O referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and thought  it should be upheld.  He said:
There were  two separate fees that Mr O was being charged by Nationwide. 
In 2007, Nationwide was responsible for managing and maintaining Mr Os investments. In 
documentation provided to Mr O, it made clear that hed pay a simple, clear  and 
straightforward 1.5% annual fee, which included monthly service charges, recurring 
management charges,  and bid/offer spread . But it didnt mention  any fees for ongoing 
advisory advice. 
The same  was broadly true for when Mr O made investments through  Nationwide in 2008.  
Things changed when the investments were sold in 2016. Thats  when the fees were  split 
between L&G and Nationwide, with L&G taking fees for managing  and administering the 
investment and Nationwide taking fees for ongoing  advisory services, also known as a trail 
commission, although this wouldnt  have been clear reading  Mr Os statements. 
Trail commission was in due course outlawed by the industry  regulator, the Financial Services 
Authority (now the Financial Conduct  Authority (the FCA)), as part of its Retail  Distribution 
Review (RDR)  for any new investments.  
Nationwide continued  to receive fees on an annual  basis from Mr Os original investments, 
until 2017  when it converted his old commission based  units  to a new share  class. At this 
point nationwide  replaced its fees with a 0.5% annual  fee, which is what  he was paying for 
some of the investments arranged in 2015.  
The investigator doesnt  accept that Mr O didnt know he was being charged this until he saw 
it on the AEGON statement. He also doesnt accept that Nationwides involvement shouldve 
ended when  it sold the investment. 
Ref: DRN06507293Nationwide has provided documentation from the different businesses to show that it has 
been charging  fees on Mr Os investments. So its involvement was made  clear  in much of the 
correspondence Mr O was receiving annually  from the other businesses.  But if Mr O didnt 
read the letters that he received, Nationwide  cant  be held responsible for any information  he 
missed. 
But Nationwide never explained what this money was being paid for. Its FRL was probably  
the first time it explained what Mr O was paying  / being charged fees for, but hitherto hasnt 
made an effort to market what services it had available for these fees.   Its unlikely  Mr O 
wouldve benefitted from (or even  made full use of) the services  available. 
Nevertheless if Mr O had read his annual statements its likely  he wouldve known that he was 
being charged fees, albeit not what for.  
Theres no evidence that Nationwide has attempted to provide any service  in exchange  for 
the fees it was charging. And theres no suggestion  Mr O consented to any of these payments 
fees after his first meeting  years  ago. So Mr O has been  deprived of the opportunity to better 
use the services  on offer or cancel them.  
To put things right wont be easy. Whilst we cant  give Mr O the missed service, and he 
wouldve had to pay some sort of fees anyways, Nationwide shouldve told Mr O about the 
fees when it sold the investments to L&G,  so he couldve made an informed  decision about 
whether or not he wanted  to pay the optional  fees.  But until the implementation  of the RDR in 
late 2012,  its likely he wouldve paid some sort of fees any way. But its very difficult to know 
what.  
In the circumstances,  Nationwide should pay the following:
oAs of 1 January  2013,  when RDR  wouldve  been  implemented, Nationwide should  
refund all the fees charged, with 8% simple interest. 
It looks as though  from the implementation of RDR Nationwide only took 0.5% fees a year 
and notified Mr O what  this was for. 
Nationwide disagreed with the investigators  conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. In 
summary, it said:
In 2007, Nationwide gave Mr O advice, as a result of which it received commission and 
continues to do so. 
In 2008, the Nationwide/Nationwide Investment Group was taken over by L&G, all 
policyholder investors were written to and advised of this. The letter also made clear that 
Nationwide would continue to be the adviser to Mr Os investment.
In the financial reviews Mr O had been recommended  that he contact Nationwide within  12 
months to arrange a further review.  
Theres evidence to suggest  Mr O used  one of its advisers in 2010.  
Throughout the life of Mr Os investment it made clear that: If you'd like advice on your 
investments, please speak  to a Financial Planning  Manager at your local Nationwide branch. 
In the spirit of full disclosure its statements  also made clear the 'Nationwide  Service charge - 
for services provided by Nationwide'.
In 2015, Mr O was made aware of changes to its terms  and conditions,  which  referenced  it 
receiving commission for the services it  as adviser  provided.
Although its FRL referred to an ongoing  service charge, Mr O hasnt opted to pay this, but 
only the standard charge  which is the non-optional  service charge. Its sorry  for any confusion  
the unhelpful terminology has caused.  
Overall Mr O has received a vast amount  of correspondence which made  clear  the fees it was 
receiving. The situation  has been  the same throughout the life time of the investment.
It cant be held responsible if Mr O didnt  read his documentation. He, like all consumers, has 
a responsibility  to read the documentation periodically. 
It has provided the same  service  Mr O was receiving from the outset.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
Ref: DRN06507294my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, subject  to any further submissions, provisionally Im not minded to uphold this 
complaint. 
Im not persuaded  that Mr O was paying optional  charges (without his knowledge  or otherwise)  or any 
charges that Nationwide wasnt providing a service for.
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Os strength  of feeling about  this matter. 
Mr O has provided submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and considered carefully.  
However, I hope he wont  take the fact my findings focus on what
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose  of my decision isnt to address every single  point raised. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented by Mr O and Nationwide, and reach what I think  is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts  of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant  law, regulation and best 
industry practice but Im not bound by it. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Im mindful the investment was taken out with Nationwide following  advice in 2007, but the suitability 
of the advice  isnt the subject of this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence and on balance, Ive seen nothing to suggest  that Mr O wouldnt  have to 
pay for service provided by Nationwide. On the face of the evidence I dont think he disagrees,  as 
long as the fees are necessary to maintain  his investment. In other words  its the transparency  
surrounding the fees, and knowing what hes paying for, is whats  at the heart of this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied Nationwide made clear it was charging 
1.5% annual fee for monthly service  charges, recurring  management charges, and bid/offer spread. 
And Im satisfied Mr O agreed to this by virtue  of signing the relevant forms, and having  been supplied 
with the relevant documentation from the outset. 
Over time I also think Mr O will have  also received the correspondence referred  to by Nationwide,  
both from itself and L&G and AEGON that subsequently took over Mr Os investment. So despite 
what Mr O says, I think it wouldve been clear from the annual statements  he received that Nationwide 
was still receiving fees from his account.  
Im satisfied the position regarding  the charges that were  being  paid to Nationwide was made 
reasonably clear to Mr O, not only when he took out the investment  in 2007, but when it was taken 
over in 2008  and 2016 and the period  in between.  
Im aware that Mr O says he was aware he was paying management charges  to Nationwide,  but it 
was unreasonable for it to charge him for a service he wasnt aware of or wanted, especially  after his 
investment was taken over in 2008 and again in 2016, when he says Nationwide had no part to play 
in his investment. 
Thats where  I think the issue lies, in that Nationwide  still had a part to play in Mr Os investment. And 
despite what  he says, its role didnt  cease  just because his investment was taken  over by L&G and 
later AEGON. And based on what Nationwide says I dont think  these were  optional fees either  which  
Mr O had to expressly  opt in to pay.  But I will consider that in due course below.
Ref: DRN06507295So for example  in 2008  when Mr Os investment  was taken over by L&G, it still retained responsibility 
for servicing and financial advice when  requested.  I note Nationwide says in 2010 Mr O used one of 
its advisers although  its not entirely clear to what extent,  but it was probably  because he was told to 
after a review.  I think its more likely  (than not) Nationwide was still charging Mr O for services that it 
was still providing  such as:
The expertise of a team of investment specialists  who review the range of funds on panel  and 
reviewed their performance to ensure they performed in line with the investors expectations.
Oversight of the investment committee who meet to review and act on any recommendation 
by its investment team.
And contact with the investor in case the funds are not performing as well as expected and to 
make recommendations.
That said I can understand why Mr O thinks it wasnt as clear about  exactly  where this money  was 
going  bearing in mind the regulation was changed in order to make the charges transparent. 
I also note Nationwide has now made clear  that despite the wording  in its FRL Mr O didnt  opt to pay 
an ongoing service charge,  but only the standard charge, which is a non-optional service charge. Its 
sorry for any confusion the unhelpful terminology has caused. In the circumstances  Im satisfied Mr O 
wasnt paying for optional extras, and was unlikely  to be charged for services  without his consent.  
The 1.5%  annual fee seems to have  been  made  up of a number of smaller  and separate charges  
including for fund management and administration as well as fund platform / panel  payable to the 
business providing  the relevant service. 
I think  historically the 1.5% would have been payable to Nationwide in its entirely. But in 2016,  when 
the ISA transferred to the new administrator AEGON  Nationwide and L&G became entitled  to a 
portion of the 1.5%  that previously Nationwide  had been  paid. It was simply now being apportioned 
in a different  way with the charge being split between Nationwide and L&G.
I dont think this means Mr O has ended up paying more  in other words  two payments  following 
the transfer and so hasnt made a financial loss. I think he was only making  one payment but to the 
new administrator and the overall  1.5% remained  the same even after the transfer to the new 
administrator.
And because  Mr O remained invested in funds that were only available on the Nationwide  panel, it 
remained entitled to that portion of the 1.5%, despite a change in the administrator.
Mr O might be unhappy  that the documentation supplied  by the new administrator at the time of 
transfer in 2008, and subsequently in 2016, didnt specifically mention any commission he would  have 
to pay Nationwide. But this is not something I can consider in a complaint against Nationwide. 
Unless Ive misunderstood the issue, it seems Mr O can in theory perhaps choose to stop paying the 
annual service  charge and Nationwide can tell him how to go about this, and what  it might entail, but 
he should be aware he will no longer  receive the service that hes currently getting, and he may have 
to choose new funds to invest in.  I dont think thats what Mr O wants. 
I appreciate Mr Os overall concerns with the situation and recognise  he will be disappointed
Ive reached a different  conclusion to the investigator. But having given the matter careful
consideration, I dont feel able to conclude  that this complaint should  be upheld.
I note what the investigator says about the RDR   which came into force  around January 2013 and 
ruled out trail commission   but I note it only applies to new investments  sold after this time.  But in 
any case, for the reasons  that Ive set out above,  I dont think Mr O is entitled to any refunds because  
none of the charges that he was paying were for optional extra services.  
Ref: DRN06507296my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im not minded to 
uphold this complaint. 
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0650729