K821x#15complaint
Ms C is unhappy about Allianz Insurance Plcs handling of water  damage claims to her 
property that she rents out to tenants under a residential property owners  policy.
 
background
The property suffered water damage following a burst pipe back in 2015. Allianz arranged 
repairs for the pipe which was re-routed.  Some repairs  were  carried out and Ms C had some 
redecoration and a new carpet.  But Ms C was never satisfied that the problems had truly 
been rectified. The internal walls  were  still damp.  After a further  claim was made  Allianz 
arranged for a loss adjuster to visit the property. Following this Allianz  told Ms C the 
problems were caused by poor workmanship and had happened  gradually over a long 
period of time. Allianz declined  the claim for these reasons which  are exclusions  under the 
policy. Ms C didnt accept this and brought her compliant to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She asked  Allianz for details of the repair works 
carried out after the original claim but no evidence was provided.  Our investigator said this 
meant Allianz couldnt show that an effective and lasting repair had been carried out as part 
of the 2015 claim. She highlighted that Ms C had concerns about the original claim and 
ongoing problems.  At one stage the water  company  had turned on the old pipes and this had 
caused further issues. Our investigator concluded  that Allianz needed to carry out repairs to 
rectify the original water damage  claim.
Allianz didnt accept this and asked  for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked our investigator to check with Allianz  when this complaint was passed to me. I wasnt 
clear on what  Allianz had done to deal with the damage caused by the original claim in 2015.  
Further, I wanted to know a bit more about what Allianz had done after the water company 
turned on the wrong pipes. The impression I get is that Ms C dealt with repairs  and 
redecoration herself. The evidence doesnt  add clarity from Allianz representatives  (C) who 
re-routed the pipe.  It said it went back and checked  after a further flood but the flood was 
due to the water company turning back on the old supply by mistake and that now this had 
been put right. It said there  were no leaks from the external supply. I dont see any 
correspondence about what Allianz did in relation  to the internal damage and repairs.  And I 
think Ms C had a potentially valid claim for internal  flood damage.
Allianz has also referred to the 2018 checks carried out to see if there was a further leak and 
its representative, company (S), said that the checking couldnt find any further leaks.  Ive no 
reason to dispute this evidence. But it doesnt  address  Ms Cs concerns about  the actual 
underlying problems with the damp,  moisture and worries about the original claim.
After 2018 S referred to external sources  of dirty water  and a breach of the damp proof  
course (DPC). Allianz has said a replacement DPC  wouldnt be something it would pay for 
under the policy.  Allianz suggests  this was always the problem but again Ive not seen any 
Ref: DRN04361472evidence of this from the original  claim or that this point was cleared up with Ms C 
previously.
Even if it is reasonable  for Allianz  to suggest that a DPC  is required  Ive no reason to believe 
it dealt fairly  with any of Ms Cs claims for water  damage. Ive not seen any evidence that it 
did any drying out or repair  works  within her property. The only evidence  it has provided is in 
relation to the external  pipe and now about the DPC.  So I think  our investigator is right to say 
that Allianz appears to have never effectively dealt with the original  claim.  It will be extremely  
difficult now to link damage to current or previous claims but Allianz  needs  to revisit and 
inspect the property and deal with the water  damage as it shouldve  done in 2015.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Allianz Insurance Plc to:
deal with the internal water damage  claim repairs that shouldve been  dealt  with following 
the original 2015  claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0436147