K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Kensington Personal Loans  Ltd (KPL) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy Mr and Mrs L took out with a secured 
loan in March  2007. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. KPL did not respond to the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think KPL advised  Mr and Mrs L to take the PPI so it didnt 
need to check  the PPI was right for them. But it did need to give Mr and Mrs L enough clear 
information so they could  make an informed choice about whether they wanted to take the 
PPI. I dont think its likely KPL did this.
I say this because  the policy terms that applied to Mr and Mrs L say that in order to qualify 
for the policy, Mr and Mrs L needed  to be in Work . Work is defined  as being in Permanent 
Employment or Self- Employed (including any period of statutory maternity, paternity or 
adoption leave  or absence). 
Mrs L told us she was not working at the time they took the PPI. Ive had a look at Mr and 
Mrs Ls secured loan application form from the time of sale.  Under  the section to input their 
employment details,  Mrs Ls section is blank. Under  the income details, Mr Ls income has 
been recorded while a 0 has been entered in respect of Mrs L, indicating  she had no 
income. So based on what Ive seen, I think she was unemployed and therefore she would 
not have been eligible for the policy. 
As explained above, KPL had a duty to provide clear information about the policy, and had it 
done so, I think  its unlikely that Mr and Mrs L wouldve  bought a policy that Mrs L didnt  
qualify for. Overall, I think its likely KPL failed  to provide clear information  about the policy  
and Mr and Mrs L lost out as result. So I uphold this complaint. 
putting things right
Mr and Mrs L borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve  
been and they paid more  than they shouldve  each month. So Mr and Mrs L need to get 
back the extra they have paid. 
So, KPL should:
Ref: DRN05208642Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs L the difference between what  they paid each month 
on the loan and what they wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs L paid each month  from when 
they paid it until they get it back.  The rate of interest  is 8% a year  .
If Mr and Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  KPL can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires KPL to take off tax from this interest. KPL must  give Mr and Mrs L a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Kensington Personal Loans Ltd should  put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0520864