K821x#15complaint
Ms S is unhappy with the way Amtrust Europe  Limited (Amtrust) has handled a claim made 
under her building  warranty  for problems with her door. 
background
Ms S purchased a new home which came with a ten-year building  warranty  underwritten by 
Amtrust.
There have been  a number of issues with Ms S home, and claims have been made under 
her building warranty. Some of the claims resulted in complaints, and some  of these have 
been considered by this service.
This particular complaint  relates to a claim for problems with Ms S front door.  This includes  
problems such as draughts and the door sticking which causes issues  when opening and 
closing it. Amtrust carried out attempts  at adjusting the door,  but this didnt  permanently  
resolve the problems.  Ultimately Amtrust  agreed to replace the door. 
Ms S complained to Amtrust about  the handling of the claim for her door. She says that it 
should have been replaced  earlier and asked for her £100  excess to be refunded due to the 
service she had received.  Amtrust wouldnt refund the excess  as they said it was payable  
under the policy.
As Ms S was unhappy with Amtrusts  position, she approached this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. He said the excess was payable  under  the 
policy for a claim so didnt  recommend it be refunded.  However, he agreed the handling  of 
the claim had been poor and initially recommended £150 compensation.
Following this, Ms S made our investigator  aware that when replacing the door,  Amtrust  had 
removed an alarm sensor, and later replaced  it. She also said that despite replacing  the 
door, it was still sticking. So our investigator  increased the compensation amount to £200 
and said that Amtrust  should get in contact with Ms S to arrange  a reasonable repair  or 
replacement of the door.
Amtrust accepted the investigators recommended resolution. 
Ms S didnt agree with the investigators  recommended compensation and asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should confirm  that the complaint  Im considering here solely  relates to Ms S front 
door. Im aware that Ms S has had various problems with her home  and has made  a number 
of complaints, some of which  have been considered by my ombudsmen colleagues.
Ref: DRN09541832Both parties  are aware of the background of the claim  for the door, and the sequence of 
events. And I dont need to consider whether the claim has been  handled unreasonably, as it 
has already been  accepted by both parties  that it has.
What I need to consider is whether Amtrust  should  refund Ms S £100 excess. I also need to 
decide whether  the £200 compensation  suggested by our investigator is fair and reasonable 
for the service Ms S has received.
In short,  Im not going to ask Amtrust to refund Ms S excess. And my view is that the 
proposed £200  compensation is reasonable. I will explain why.
Excess
Ms S policy says that an excess  is payable for each separately identifiable cause of loss or 
damage where a payment is made under the policy by the underwriter. 
So as a claim has been made under  the policy, which has meant the door has had 
adjustments, and been replaced, I dont  think that its reasonable to ask Amtrust to refund 
the excess.
A claim  has been made,  and a claim attracts an excess  in line with the policy terms.
Compensation  
Its clear that Ms S reported  issues with her door to Amtrust a number of times,  over a 
prolonged period of time.
Amtrust attempted to adjust the door on a number of occasions  as they believed this would 
resolve the problems  with the door. Following their experts advice, they also replaced the 
fixings in an attempt to carry  out an effective repair. But unfortunately the adjustments and 
changing the fixings didnt resolve  it.
Ultimately it was agreed that the door would be replaced. And whilst  Ms S feels that this 
should have been done earlier, its not unreasonable for Amtrust to attempt to adjust the 
door in the first instance.  
I can see from the file that there were some  delays in the claim, but I cant  hold Amtrust 
solely responsible  for this. There were separate issues with the windows which  were also 
being investigated and discussed by Ms S and Amtrust at the same time as her door, and 
this complicated matters.
There was also some confusion around  whether the excess  had been paid and who this had 
been paid to. Ms S said she had paid it to the contractor, but it took some time for it to be 
established the cheque hadnt been  cashed  by them. Ultimately as the excess  hadnt been 
paid, it needed  to be before the door claim could continue.
Following the replacement of the door,  and some months later,  Ms S also discovered that 
when the door was replaced, the alarm  sensor  had been removed. Whilst Ms S says that 
this compromised  the security of her home, fortunately nothing  happened as a result of this. 
But I cant compensate  Ms S for something that couldve  happened but didnt.
Ref: DRN09541833I think that that the £200 compensation proposed by our investigator is reasonable, so Im 
not going to ask Amtrust to pay more  compensation than this.
Repairing the door
When recommending  the £200 compensation to Amtrust, our investigator also said that they 
should make  contact with Ms S to arrange  a reasonable repair  or replacement of the door. 
This is because Ms S reported her door still continued to have issues  despite  its 
replacement. 
Its been some time since the complaint was progressed for a decision from an ombudsman. 
And Ms S hasnt been in contact to say Amtrust has now repaired or replaced the door. So if 
they havent already, Amtrust  should  get in contact with Ms S to arrange  further repairs, or a 
replacement if necessary.
my final decision
Its my final decision Amtrust Europe Limited  should contact Ms S to arrange for a suitable 
repair or replacement  of the door if necessary, and they should pay Ms S £200  
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Callum Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0954183