K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt credit her account with all the cash she 
paid in.
background
Miss O visited a branch  on 23 July 2018  to pay in cash. She says that this was £24,450 but 
that Barclays told her later that day that it had only received £13,550. She wants the 
difference refunded and says that she raised  this at the time. Miss O is unhappy  that 
Barclays hadnt retained the branch  CCTV.
Barclays didnt agree to pay Miss O this money. It said that due to the amount  involved the 
money was sealed  in a secure bag at the counter. It was counted and verified  in a secure 
location under dual control. And there  was no cash discrepancy in the branch to account for 
this. A member of staff called Miss O during the day she paid the money  in and it had no 
complaint from her until five months later. It didnt keep CCTV for that long.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that Miss O had 
no evidence to support  the source of the higher amount of money. Barclays  had provided 
evidence to show it had followed its specific process. Miss O had been inconsistent  about 
whether she said the money was counted at the counter or not. And there was no evidence 
she had raised this matter  until her complaint  in December 2018. At that time she had said in 
her complaint letter that she had been  too busy to pursue this. There  was now no CCTV and 
it wasnt clear  that this would have  resolved  things  anyway,
Miss O wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She says she went into the branch the next 
day and was promised  a call back from the branch manager. This didnt happen even after 
she went back to the branch  again. Barclays knew there was an issue and should have keep 
the CCTV.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a substantial cash difference disputed here.  I understand Miss O says the money 
had been taken out of a safety deposit  box as it wasnt used for a planned house renovation. 
But I agree  with our investigator that there is no evidence to confirm  the source and to help 
establish that Miss O did have the amount of money she says to pay into her account that 
day.
Barclays has provided its account of what happened  having investigated what  its branch 
staff did. And I note that in her complaint letter of 5 December 2018 Miss O says that the 
money wasnt counted  in front of her and that she was told it would be counted by two staff 
as Barclays says happened. Miss O has now given a different account to this service about  
where the money was counted. 
Im struggling to understand why a dispute  of this nature and amount wasnt escalated 
before by Miss O even  if as she says she didnt get a response from branch staff.  And so I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Barclays not to keep the CCTV.
Ref: DRN05955992There were no discrepancies shown in the branch records  that day to help explain what 
happened. And there is no evidence Ive seen to show that Barclays didnt follow its normal  
procedures. When taken  together with the lack of evidence  about the source of this money 
and the timing of the complaint Im not persuaded that Barclays made a mistake.  So I dont 
have a reasonable basis to require it to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0595599