K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that she was mis-sold a monthly  premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
Although the policy was sold by Marks & Spencer,  Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) have taken 
responsibility for the sale and so the complaint  has been set up against  Allianz.
To keep  things simple,  Ive only referred to Allianz during this decision.
background
Ms S applied for an account  card in 1993.  She was sold the PPI at the same time in 
connection with this card.
The PPI cost  64p  per £100  of the monthly  outstanding balance. It would have paid 15% of 
the outstanding balance  each month  if Ms S was off work sick or lost her job until the 
outstanding balance (at the start of the claim)  had been paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ms Ss complaint  should  be upheld. Ms S didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ss complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive checked whether Ms S was eligible  for the policy.  Based on Ms Ss age and 
employment at the time of the sale I think she was eligible.
Allianz had to make it clear to Ms S that the PPI was optional  and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to her account. Ms S says that it wasnt made clear that the PPI 
was optional and she wasnt  aware  it had been  applied to her account. 
Ive thought carefully about what Ms S has told us and also looked  at the documents from 
the time of the sale to help me decide  how it is more  likely that the PPI was presented.
Allianz have provided  us with a copy of the application form. I can see that this presented the 
PPI as optional  and that Ms S would have had to tick a box to take PPI if she wanted it. If 
she didnt want it then she could  have left the box blank.  But I can see that the box to take 
PPI has been  ticked and Ms S has also added her name and date of birth as the person to 
be insured. Ms S also signed  this form.
So all in all, I think the PPI was presented as optional and it was applied to Ms Ss account 
because she chose  to take it out.
Ref: DRN02973552I dont think Allianz advised  Ms S to take PPI. This means Allianz  didnt have to check  if the 
PPI was suitable for Ms S. So for example, Ms S has told us that she didnt  need  PPI 
because she would  have  been entitled to generous sick pay, redundancy pay and had 
savings at the time of the sale  but Allianz  didnt have to take this into account  when selling  
Ms S PPI. Instead it would have been  for Ms S to decide whether  or not she wanted to take 
PPI despite her then existing repayment provisions.
However, Allianz did have  to provide  Ms S with clear information  in particular about the 
costs, benefits and main  exclusions/restrictions in the policy  - so that she could decide for 
herself if the PPI was right for her. Its possible  the information Allianz gave Ms S wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. This in itself doesnt  mean the PPI was mis-sold  as I have to go 
on and consider whether better  information  would have put her off taking the PPI out.
I dont think better information  would have put her off the policy.  I say this because:
- The PPI would  have paid out in addition to Ms Ss existing benefits  and would  have 
continued to do so until the outstanding balance had been paid off.
- The PPI was of a relatively  low cost and I havent seen anything  which  makes  me 
think it would  have  been unaffordable to Ms S at the time of the sale.
- Ms S doesnt appear to have  been affected by the main  exclusions/restrictions  in the 
policy and so it looks like she could have made  a successful claim under the policy if the 
need arose.
- Ms S could have  cancelled the policy at any time without  losing out financially.
So, having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think  Allianz mis-sold Ms S this PPI 
policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint against  Allianz  Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
 
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0297355