K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Lex Autolease Ltd has unfairly refused to refund charges for an unused  
period of his vehicle hire agreement. He wants the refund  and compensation.
background
Mr F tells us that he notified  Lex that he wished to terminate  the agreement. He said Lex had 
collected the vehicle whilst there  was still more than three weeks  left on the hire period. But 
it had refused to give him any refund in respect  of this period  when hed not used the 
vehicle.
Lex told us that the monthly rentals  were  paid in advance. And that no credit  was due if the 
vehicle was returned prior to the end of the billing period.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said the last invoice 
had been issued on 1 February  2019. As the monthly rentals  were  paid in advance she said 
this invoice had covered  the period from 28 February to 28 March  2019. As the vehicle had 
been collected on 5 March and Lex hadnt  indicated it would make any pro rata refund  she 
didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mr F didnt  accept this outcome. And said the view was in conflict  with contract law. As its 
not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr F was disappointed that hed not been given a partial  refund to reflect  the 
period - prior to the end of his hire agreement - when hed not used the vehicle and it had 
been returned to Lex.
As Mr F specifically raised the issue of the application of contract  law Ill deal with this issue  
at the outset.
My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution  
Rules (DISP). These are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook.
DISP 3.6.1 states:
 
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint  by reference to what  is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Ref: DRN00911612DISP 3.6.4R says I need to take into account  relevant: 
 law and regulations;
 regulators  rules  guidance and standards;
 codes  of practice; 
and  (where  appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice  at the time.
Mr Fs hire agreement  commenced in March  2016.  It was for a period of 36 months and was 
due to terminate  on 28 March 2019. 
Under the heading KEY FINANCIAL INFORMATION the agreement stated that:
The Initial Payment Is payable on or before delivery  of the vehicle. The monthly hire 
payment Is payable by Direct Debit beginning on the 15th day of the month following the 
month of delivery unless  we agree another date of the month  with you.
The effect of this requirement is that the monthly  rental payments are made  in advance.
Under the "Early Termination" clause of the agreement, it states (my underlining):
"Provided you have observed  and fulfilled all the terms and conditions  of this Agreement
you may terminate the Agreement for the vehicle prior to the expiry of the term on
payments to us of the following sums:
(a) Any arrears of rental and all other sums  falling due under this Agreement and the Service 
Agreement whether invoiced before or after the date of actual termination:  and
(b) All rentals including  payments due under the Service Agreement which would have  fallen 
due between the date of termination and the expiry of the term less an allowance of 50% 
(fifty per cent) representing maintenance not to be performed depreciation not to be suffered 
and interest not to be incurred
The final invoice dated 1 February  covered the period 28 February  to 28 March  2019. Mr F 
notified Lex of his wish to terminate the agreement after the issue  of this invoice.  And the 
vehicle was collected on 5 March 2019. When there  were just over three weeks  left on the 
agreement. As rental payments were due to be paid in advance no payments wouldve fallen 
due in the final month of the contract.  As they should already  have been  paid by then. It 
follows that there is no payment against which the allowance can be offset.
As Mr F signed the agreement its reasonable to expect he read it through and understood 
the contents. And if there  was any part of the document he didnt understand Id expect him 
to raise a query at the time.
Ref: DRN00911613I also dont think its for Lex to advise Mr F on what actions he should take in respect of 
returning the vehicle early.  The terms of the agreement - and the payments due upon early 
termination - were set out in the agreement.  Ive not seen any reference to Lex agreeing to 
make pro rata refunds  of any unused period on the agreement other than that to which Ive 
referred.
Lex was entitled  to assume Mr F wouldve made  himself aware  of these terms prior to 
exercising his choice  to return the vehicle before the expiry  date of the agreement.
In summary,  I dont think Lex has done anything wrong in declining  to waive  the final 
payment or offer a refund.  Accordingly,  Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0091161