K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Santander UK Plc, trading then as National & Provincial,  mis-sold  them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
In 1989, Santander sold Mr and Mrs L a monthly  premium PPI policy to protect their 
mortgage repayments if Mrs L was unable to work  because of an accident or sickness.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs L disagreed,  so the 
case has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr and Mrs L say that they were  told by Santander  that they had to take the PPI cover and 
thought at the time it was a legal requirement. But I have to take account  of the fact that this 
sale took place  a very long time ago and memories of what  was said in such meetings does 
tend to fade over such timescales.  So I dont think it would  be fair for me to conclude that 
Santander misled  them  in this way, based only on what they think  they were told some  thirty 
years ago in a meeting.
Santander has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ls signed mortgage application. This has a 
section in it headed Other insurances  available  please tick box if required. And I can see 
theres a tick in the box under this to select PPI accident and sickness  cover. Santander  has 
also provided a copy  of the separate PPI application  form which Mrs L signed for her cover at 
the time.  
So on balance, whilst I think Santander may well have strongly recommended the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs L, I also think its most likely  that Santander made it clear to them  that PPI was 
optional. And I think they actively decided to take it, knowing  they had a choice. But I can 
understand why they may not recall this now.
Santander recommended  the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs L. This means that it needed to ensure 
that it was suitable for them. As theres no record of the meeting when the PPI was sold,  I 
cant be sure how Santander did this. But from what I know  of their circumstances at the time, I 
cant see any reason why the policy  wouldnt have  been suitable.  I say this because:
Mrs L appears to have been  eligible  for the policy and not affected by any of its main  
exclusions or other limitations.
Ref: DRN04696312Mr and Mrs L say they didnt need the PPI cover  because  Mrs L was eligible for sick pay 
from her employer. And they say that they also had some savings and the state  benefits  
they received,  which could have been  used to make their mortgage  repayments if Mrs L 
was unable to work  because  of ill health.  But this policy  would have paid out in addition to 
these other means. And a mortgage  is a big financial  commitment, where ones home  is 
potentially at risk if the repayments  cant be met. So I still think that Mr and Mrs L would 
have valued the extra security the PPI gave them.
Ive no reason to think the cost of the policy was unaffordable to Mr and Mrs L. And as the 
premiums were  paid monthly,  the policy could have  been  cancelled if it no longer met their 
needs.
Santander also needed to provide enough  information to Mr and Mrs L about  the PPI policy  for 
them to decide  if they wanted to take it. I think  its possible that the information  they received 
wasnt as good  as it could have been.  But for much  the same  reasons that I dont think  the 
policy was unsuitable  for them, I dont think that better information would have changed their 
minds about taking it. I think theyd still have thought  the policy provided useful extra  protection 
at an affordable cost.
So I dont  think that Mr and Mrs L have lost out from anything  that Santander may have done 
wrong when it sold them  this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0469631