K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC has removed the quick pay point from her 
local branch and she now has to queue and wait to pay cheques into her business account.
background
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that Barclays  
explained it had removed the facility  for security  reasons. And it had offered Ms M alternative 
ways to pay in cheques.  We couldnt  tell it what services to provide to its customers.  
Ms M did not agree.  She said this meant she needed  to queue up daily for at least 15 
minutes and sometimes over 45 minutes.  She believed that Barclays  was frustrating the use 
of cheques which remain legal tender.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that many of Ms Ms clients still pay her business  by cheque. And this means  
that on a daily basis she needs to bank  cheques often for significant amounts of money. She 
found that using the quick  pay point met her needs.  And she was unhappy to see a notice 
that Barclays intended to remove this. It has now done so. Shes considered  other options 
but shes said there isnt a debit card for this clients account. And although she could use 
the branch post box out of hours  there  is now a notice telling her that this would be at her 
own risk. 
Barclays has said that it has removed  this quick drop facility  for security reasons. Thats 
because it needs  to identify customers paying  in money. Thats  slightly at odds with it 
accepting credits through the post box. But its made clear what it sees as the risks of this for 
Ms M. And as Ms M says,  branch staff sometimes take her envelope  for paying in off her 
when she is in the queue and process  this for her in the back office.
This service is not the regulator.  And we dont  have a role in saying what services Barclays  
should provide.  Here  its made a commercial  decision and Im satisfied from its case  notes 
that its taken Ms Ms complaint seriously and thought about other options for her. I dont 
think its taken this step as she says to frustrate her efficient use of cheques  even if thats  
the business impact  for her. So Im afraid I dont find it has made a mistake or acted  
unreasonably.
Ref: DRN05781322my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0578132