K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy that he was given incorrect annuity quotes by The Prudential Assurance  
Company Limited.
background
Mr S received annuity quotes from Prudential in September and December  2017.  Mr S and 
his financial adviser  queried the numbers with Prudential in early  2018 and they confirmed 
the quotes were  correct  and explained  the procedure  on how to take the benefits.
Mr Ss financial adviser checked quotes with other providers on the open  market but 
Prudentials quote  was the best,  so he decided to go ahead with Prudentials  quote. 
However, Prudential  then told him that the quotes  were incorrect  and in fact they werent  
offering their own annuities anymore.  
In February 2018  Prudential  apologised to Mr S and offered him £150 in compensation. 
They also gave him more time to think about his options and delayed  deferring his retirement 
date and switching  his investments to cash. If Mr S decided to take his benefits before 
March 2018 Prudential said they would  make sure he wasnt  disadvantaged by the delays 
they caused.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this and complained  to this service. He feels  Prudential should 
honour their initial quotations. Our investigator  didnt  think  this would be fair, however he 
recommended that Prudential  should pay Mr S a total of £300 in compensation for the 
troubles caused.
Mr S disagreed and so his complaint was referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the compensation recommended by the investigator  is reasonable in 
the circumstances. I know  this will come  as a disappointment  to Mr S. Ill explain my reasons  
in more detail  below.
It is very disappointing that Prudential issued annuity quotes in September and December 
2017 to Mr S which were  incorrect and even more so as they were  sent months  after 
Prudential withdrew  from the annuity market. There is no doubt this shouldnt  have  
happened. And I can understand  Mr Ss frustration and disappointment particularly as he 
and his adviser checked the annuity amounts  with Prudential before making their decision to 
proceed and were told on the phone the quotes  were correct. He understandably  and 
reasonably relied  on the figures  given  to him by Prudential  and planned to retire on this 
income. 
The annuities Mr S can get on the open  market are a lot lower than the incorrect amounts  
shown on Prudentials quote. As a result he had to delay  his retirement and continue 
working. Mr S feels he has lost out on thousands  of pounds of pension income and wants  
Prudential to honour the quotes they gave him. I appreciate  Mr S was planning  his 
retirement with the annuity income he was quoted  and its now very disappointing that he 
Ref: DRN07511402wont receive this extra  money. However,  this was never income that was available  or that 
he was entitled  to. So it wouldnt be fair to ask Prudential to honour  an incorrect  quote.
As a service  we try to put customers  as much as possible  in the position they would have 
been in had the business not made any errors. When Mr S asked for information about  his 
pension in September 2017, Prudential should have advised Mr S of the transfer value and 
should have explained that they didnt offer annuities any longer. Mr S would have  then gone  
to the open market and he confirmed to us that based on the available rates he wouldnt  
have been able to retire  and would have continued  working. So even  if no error had occurred 
the quoted annuity  wouldnt  be available to him and he still wouldnt be retired  now.
Of course this doesnt mean Prudentials error had no impact.  Mr S was planning to retire 
and I dont want to deflect from the frustration and disappointment he must have felt when he 
was told at the last minute that he wouldnt receive the income he was expecting  and which  
forced him to change  his plans. Mr S is self-employed and prepared to retire by winding 
down his clientele which he says caused him embarrassment when he had to go back to 
work. 
Our investigator thought Prudentials initial offer didnt reflect the trouble and upset their error 
caused Mr S. He asked  them to increase  their offer from £150 to £300. I understand that 
Mr S thinks  the compensation should  be relative  to the amount he was expecting to receive 
and therefore  should be higher. Paying compensation is no exact  science and I considered 
the loss of expectation Mr S suffered and the changes of plans  he had to make. And on 
balance I think £300 is a reasonable award in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I understand Mr S has already 
received £150,  so I request The Prudential  Assurance Company Limited to pay Mr S another  
£150 to bring  the total compensation up to £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0751140