K821x#15complaint
Mr C2 complains  that the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  were  wrong  to pursue and 
take payment  of a company debt from his late mother, Mrs Cs, estate.
background
brief factual background
Mr C2 is the son of Mr C1 and Mrs C, both of whom  are now sadly deceased. He brings this 
complaint as executor of his mothers estate  and is assisted in doing so by a representative. 
For ease, though, I shall explain everything  as if its coming from Mr C2.
The subject of this complaint is the repayment  of a loan, which  RBS provided to Mr C1s 
company, N Ltd.
RBS gave the loan in 2011. It was not additional  company  lending,  but an alternative to the 
overdraft N Ltd already  had. In contrast  to the overdraft,  the loan was secured by virtue of 
personal guarantees already provided  by the then company directors,  Mr V and Mr C1, who 
in turn, had an all monies charge  on his family  home, named K.
Mr C1 and Mrs C had signed  the all monies  charge in 1991, secured on K. They  were  joint 
legal title holders  of K.
The monthly loan repayments were made until early 2013. In July 2013,  RBS wrote to Mr C1 
explaining they regretted that they were  going to have to rely on his personal guarantee to 
recover payment.
Unfortunately, by this time, Mr C1 had in fact died and, just four months later,  Mrs C also 
died.
Thereafter, the bank  entered into correspondence with Mr C2 and separately with Mr V. 
Some more of the loan was repaid by Mr V (totalling £1,800), but eventually Mr V stopped.  
RBS then made it clear  they would undertake re-possession proceedings of K in order  to 
settle the full debt.  As it happened, those legal  proceedings were  not required because  Mr 
C2, settling the estates affairs,  sold the property in 2016 and paid RBS £31,078.55  out of 
the proceeds.
background to the complaint
In short,  Mr C2 didnt  think  it was right that RBS were able to pursue the company debt into 
the estate of his mother.
Bringing his complaint to this Service,  an adjudicator here considered  it. She thought  that 
overall the bank  had acted fairly.  Mainly  because RBS had relied on a legal charge, which  
was clear on its face, and which Mrs C had signed  meaning she would be liable to pay her 
and her husbands debts.
Mr C2 didnt agree and the complaint came to me to consider.
Initially, I agreed that overall RBS hadnt been unfair, but I reached  that conclusion  for 
different reasons and so I drafted a Provisional Decision, PD1.
Ref: DRN05788532In that, I concluded  that RBS had erred. I thought they should have taken steps  to ensure 
Mrs C was aware of the lending and give her an opportunity to take advice. After all, this was 
about company  lending  and the legal charge she signed was in a domestic context 20 years  
previously. 
That said I thought  that if RBS had done so, it would  have ultimately made  no difference. It 
seemed to me that Mrs C may well have  had a role in the company and, therefore, may well 
have known about and benefitted  from the financial arrangement. 
Having issued my PD1,  RBS agreed with my findings. Mr C2, on the other hand, disagreed 
and believed  I had placed insufficient  weight to my finding that the bank  had erred and so 
provided me with additional information, which, in turn, meant I sought additional information 
from RBS.
In considering the information, I revised  my conclusions. I was satisfied that Mrs C had no 
dealings with the company and there had been  no communication  between  RBS and Mrs C; 
they were on notice of the effect  of the lending on her, yet did nothing to ensure any 
prejudice to her was mitigated. 
I drafted  a further  provisional decision,  PD2.
Mr C2 accepted  that and provided me with the figures  I sought.
RBS, on the other hand disagreed with my conclusions. This meant I reviewed the matter  
again. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My PD2 sets out my further findings and reasoning for the conclusions  I drew. I attach it to 
this, my final decision, and refer the reader to it.
Whilst RBS initially disagreed with my PD2,  they have now, and, to be fair, notwithstanding  
their disagreement, accepted  it in order that this complaint may now be resolved. Therefore, 
I do not need to go on to address the objections the bank stated in response  to my PD2.
In short,  I do not think it was fair for RBS to pursue recovery of the company debt into the 
estate of Mrs C.
I think that a fair and reasonable  outcome in the circumstances of this complaint  is that RBS 
refund the estate.
The figures I sought from Mr C2 were in relation  to the settlement the estate reached with Mr 
V. It would appear that in their negotiated  settlement, Mrs Cs estate  managed to recover 
£5,658.52 from Mr V. That reduced  the loss to the estate from £31,078.55  to £25,420.03.
Included in the agreement, however, was that the £1,800 Mr V had paid to RBS was to be 
taken into account;  effectively creating a 24/76% split as opposed to a 25/75% split of 
repayment of the loan.
Ref: DRN05788533In real terms, this does mean that Mrs Cs estate did not recover  as much as it had hoped 
from Mr V. But Im conscious that this was an agreement they reached and RBS were 
entitled to the £1,800 it had received from Mr V. 
Therefore, I think a fair and reasonable outcome is that RBS refund 76% of the original sum. 
That is £23,620.03.
Further, I require 8% interest to be applied to that sum calculated from the date the original 
sum was paid to them  (which I understand was on the 30 September 2016) to the date this 
complaint is settled by virtue of the refund. This reflects the loss of the use of the money to 
the estate. 
I appreciate that a proportion of the debt is now at large  because (under a separate 
complaint) I do not think that RBS were irresponsible  to provide the loan itself in 2011.  Here, 
Ive only concluded  (as this complaint  has called  me to answer)  that RBS were wrong to 
pursue the debt into the estate of Mrs C.
That said,  knowing what they knew, it should have been apparent to RBS that they had a 
problem in relation to Mrs C. And should  have  realised they needed to pursue the routes  
which were available  to them.  RBS will now have to assess carefully  what, if anything, they 
may fairly and reasonably do next.
my final decision
To resolve  this complaint,  I require  the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to:
1)refund  the estate  of Mrs C the sum of £23,620.03;
2)apply 8% interest to £23,620.03, commencing from the date the Royal Bank  of 
Scotland Plc received  the original sum of £31,078.55 in 2016, until the date of 
settlement of this complaint by the said refund.
Settlement is to be within  28 days of the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc receiving written 
confirmation of the acceptance of this settlement by the estate of Mrs C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
C, to accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2019.
Anna Keighley
ombudsman
__________________________________________
Text of PD2 dated  25 October 2018
(amended slightly to anonymise the parties )
___________________________________________ 
Ive considered the relevant information about  the estate of Mrs Cs complaint.
Ref: DRN05788534That has now included additional information and comments I received  from the parties, 
following issuing my first provisional decision (my PD1), dated  27 June 2018.
 
Based on what Ive seen  so far, Im now intending to uphold  this complaint. 
Since this is a change  from my earlier position,  I issue this as a further provisional decision 
to give both parties opportunity to consider it and make any further submissions they may 
like to make.
Ill look at any more  comments  and evidence that I get by 25 November 2018. But unless the 
information changes  my mind, my final decision is likely to be along  the following lines.  
As I have said in the past, as final decisions are published on our website and so that the 
estate of Mrs C cant  be identified, Ill refer to people as I did before: Mrs C, Mr C1, Mr C2 
and N Ltd. Although the complaint is brought by a representative, to avoid confusion, I will 
write as though  the information has come directly from Mr C2.
complaint
Mr C2 complains  that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS)  were wrong to take payment 
of a company  debt from his late mothers, Mrs Cs, estate.
background
For the sake of clarity, my PD1 also referred to the complaint of the company  (N Ltd) against 
RBS. That complaint is about  the lending, which gave rise to the debt in the first place. N Ltd 
complains that RBS were  irresponsible  to provide the lending.
The complaints are now separate. So this provisional decision is dealing  only with the pursuit 
of the debt against Mrs Cs estate.
That said,  Ive made a finding in N Ltds complaint  that the lending  was not irresponsible;  
therefore, it is necessary  for me to address the substance  of this complaint.
Since Ive set out at some length the background of the complaint in my PD1, I shant set it 
out in full again.
I do need, however,  to clarify certain points since my PD1:
I stated that in 2007  Mrs C pledges second  legal charge on K. RBS have  explained that 
meant that a staff member checked  whether  the legal charge  was still in existence   for 
example looking  at the Land Registry and reference to a valuation estimate. 
The note of a pledge was just an internal note on the banks records. It was neither referable 
to any question asked  of Mrs C nor any information  she volunteered. RBS cannot provide 
any documentary evidence that they have  ever corresponded with Mrs C about the lending.
And, to be clear,  the second legal charge is the legal  charge signed and registered in 1991.
Mr C2 tells me that Mrs C didnt have  any role in the N Ltd; for example as a Director  or 
Company Secretary  or employee. 
Ref: DRN05788535Its correct that she was a scheme member of the pension fund, that was in 2008.  At some 
point a lump sum was taken from the fund and latterly Mrs C derived  monthly  income from 
the fund. As to the detail  of how that came  about, Mr C2 is unsure. He suspects that it was 
Mr C1 who organised  that.
On a personal note,  Mr C2 explains that there  have  been personal  issues  suffered by Mr C2 
and his brother;  that their parents died within four months of each other has been  particularly 
difficult. Mrs C was very unwell prior to her death in April 2013.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I now think  that it wasnt 
fair for RBS to pursue  Mrs Cs estate.  Ill explain why.
In my PD1, I concluded that although RBS had erred by not contacting Mrs C, I thought that 
considering matters overall   and on balance - it was fair and reasonable for the bank to be 
repaid in the manner it was.
the error
Just to make it clear,  I dont make a finding on the legality of the charge  on the house. Im 
not permitted  to determine  that.
What I have to determine is whether it was fair and reasonable  to pursue Mrs Cs estate  
taking into account  the law as well as other factors, such as industry  guidance.
So I think its helpful to explain  more why I think the bank  erred.
I accept that, on its face, the legal charge signed by Mrs and Mr C in 1991 had the effect  of 
securing future lending  which  RBS advanced to either one of them individually  or jointly in 
the future.  Therefore, the lending which was advanced to Mr C1 in his capacity as Director of 
N Ltd, underpinned by personal guarantee meant that the charge could be relied upon in the 
event of his default.
So I accept  that were Mr C1 alive, the bank would theoretically have been able to pursue 
him under the personal guarantee or his portion of the beneficial interest in the property.
But, here, the bank  pursued Mrs Cs share   the legal and beneficial  interest  in the property  
having transferred  to her entirely upon Mr C1s death.
Were Mrs C still alive, she would have  been able to tell me some of things I inferred in PD1.  
She would also have been  able to tell me what, if anything,  she knew  about  the loan to the 
company and her husbands personal  guarantee.
Of course,  I dont have that from her. And so I have  to consider what  steps  RBS took to 
make her aware of the company lending. As I said, Ive seen no such evidence and RBS 
cannot point to any.
The reason  this is important is that since the case of Barclays Bank v OBrien [1994]  1 AC 
180 and later RBS v Etridge (no 2) [2002] 2 A.C. 773 banks  are on notice of the potential  
effect on wives (I note that the principle is usually regarding wives but not solely)  of the 
Ref: DRN05788536business indebtedness of their husbands. Put briefly, once on notice, banks need to ensure 
that a wife is aware of the lending, the effect it may have on her and to seek legal advice. If 
she then chooses  not to take advice, that would be matter for her, and the bank would have 
discharged its duty.
That situation certainly arises at the point a wife is asked to sign something  to secure a 
husbands borrowing  or stand as surety. In this case,  Mrs C signed a document 20 years 
previously with no demonstrable information or advice since. The legal charge was referable  
to personal lending (that forms part of the heading of the document). Because  that 
happened in the past, RBS had an enhanced duty to check  with her in 2011.
I dont accept, therefore, that Mrs C should  be a in a worse  position having signed something  
prior to those seminal  legal cases (I refer to above), than a wife who is asked to sign 
something now. RBS were on notice that the lending  could have a detrimental effect on her. 
I can see from the notes that they fully intended relying on the legal charge in the event of 
default, so its clear to me they should  have taken the next step to write to her separately.
She was obviously  at a disadvantage,  the lending had an obvious impact  on her and the 
bank were on notice  of the same.
So that is why I concluded that the bank erred.
the difference
As I said in my PD1,  I concluded that on balance, though,  and bearing  in mind other factors, 
what the bank  did was not unfair.
I inferred that Mrs C may have known  about  the lending  and may well have agreed to it 
anyway.
I now have further  information about  the basis upon which I made  those findings.  Because  of 
that, my findings have  altered.
Specifically, I noted that in 2007,  Mrs C seemed to have made  some  sort of pledge  to RBS. 
That indicated to me that she must  have known  something about the banking relationship, 
lending and inferred  that she approved it in order to give such a pledge.
Im now aware that there was no such pledge  the term pledge  was merely an internal 
banking term to indicate the bank  staff had checked the charge was in place (for example 
looking at the Land Registry).
So there was no contact with Mrs C at that point.
I also believed that Mrs C had something   although  I was not clear what  to do with the 
company; therefore,  had some knowledge  of its running and interest in how it was run. Mr 
C2 says that is not the case.  And I can see that there is nothing in the company documents, 
at Companies House to indicate that was actually so. Im satisfied, therefore, that Mrs C 
didnt have knowledge of the dealings of N Ltd.
I do accept that she was a scheme member of the pension  that was done  latterly. Although 
related, it is essentially a separate entity.  And any benefit she got from that cannot be said to 
mean she directly benefited  from the loan in 2011.
Ref: DRN05788537Mrs C appears  to have been  a housewife and mother who relied upon her husband to earn 
money. Whilst this means she derived some  benefit from her husbands business dealings,  it 
also means she fits squarely into the territory that the cases (above) were addressing. Its a 
stretch too far to say that she would have  been  prepared to jeopardise her house for the 
sake of the company.
In fact, given that Mrs C was so unwell and much older than she had been in 1991,  Im 
inclined to think that she may well have refused had she been asked.
Having concluded  that RBS should have checked with Mrs C and that the information I do 
have about Mrs C doesnt outweigh the duty RBS had, I dont think  it was fair and 
reasonable for them to have pursued the legal charge on her estate; their failure to do so 
effectively estopped  them irrespective of the validity on its face.
what does this mean?
If the bank  had realised  that at the time I accept  that the bank could  have pursued  the 
company, Mr Cs residual estate or the joint guarantor.
Its not for me to say what the bank should do in relation to the loan now,  save  for observing  
there are and were  obvious difficulties in relation to the company which is effectively  dormant 
and from the grant of probate there  appears to have been insufficient in Mr Cs residual 
estate.
what should bank  do to put things  right?
As the parties are aware, the estate managed to recover 25% share of the loan from Mr V, 
the joint guarantor, in an out-of-court settlement.
I note now I do not have the precise figure and I would wish to see documentary  evidence as 
to that settlement figure.
But, broadly,  I would require RBS to:
1)Refund the estate of Mrs C at 75% of the loan value repaid to it by the estate. 
2)Plus 8% interest  from the date it was paid up to the date of settlement of this 
complaint - to represent the loss of the use of the money and its distribution 
envisaged under  the terms of Mrs Cs Will.
my provisional decision
To resolve  this complaint  I provisionally  require The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to:
1)Refund the estate of Mrs C at 75% of the loan value repaid to it by the estate. 
2)Plus 8% interest  from the date it was paid up to the date of settlement of this 
complaint - to represent the loss of the use of the money and its distribution 
envisaged under  the terms of Mrs Cs Will.
As I say, I will consider any additional  comments and information from either party. Id like to 
receive any such submissions by 25 November 2018.
Ref: DRN05788538
Ref: DRN0578853