K821x#15Complaint
Mr G says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about twenty-seven high-cost short term credit instalment loans that Sunny 
provided to Mr G between July 2017  and January 2019. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Gs complaint and thought  that he shouldnt have been provided 
with loans 4 to 27. Sunny didnt agree.  So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr G could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr G, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr G was unlikely to have been  able to make his payments  in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided Mr G with loan 4. 
I say this because  by this stage  Mr G was displaying a pattern of borrowing consistent with 
someone who may have  been in financial difficulty rather than to cover a short term need.  
He was taking  new loans shortly after or even before repaying previous ones. And a 
significant proportion  of his income was committed to repaying  Sunny.
Ref: DRN09164272Sunny continued  lending  to Mr G even when this pattern  was repeated  and in circumstances 
where it ought reasonably to have realised  that any further loans were more likely than not 
unsustainable for him. 
Mr G had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt  have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr G paid on loans 4 to 23 and loan 26;
remove all interest and charges added to loans 24, 25 and 27 from the outset. The 
payments Mr G made, either to Sunny or any third party  debt purchaser, should  then 
be deducted from the new starting balances. If after all adjustments  have been made 
any outstanding  balances remain, Sunny can only deduct  this from what it now needs  
to pay Mr G if it buys any debts back. If it doesnt  it cant  make any deduction;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  about loans 4 to 11 from Mr Gs credit file. 
The number of loans  provided means  that any information recorded about  loans 12 
to 27 is adverse. So all reference to these  loans should be removed from Mr Gs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Gs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mr G compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0916427