K820x#14Complaint
Mr Z is unhappy  that HSBC UK Bank Plc has refused to refund two disputed transactions  of 
£900. 
Background
Mr Z had a current  account with HSBC.  
On the 27 January 2018 an online transfer  was made from Mr Zs current account  for £200 
and on the 29 January  2018 a further transaction of £700 was made  to the same  payee. 
On the 29 January 2018 Mr Z contacted HSBC to dispute the transactions.  Mr Z said hed 
logged into his online banking  and noticed he only had a balance  of £80 when it should be 
significantly more. He advised that he didnt  know the payee  and he hadnt authorised the 
transactions. 
HSBC investigated  but didnt accept  Mr Zs disputed transaction claim. They said that HSBC 
online banking had been used to make  the payment and the same device had been used as 
for genuine payments. They further  explained that to carry out the transactions  a fraudster 
would have needed access to Mr Zs secure  key, his PIN and answer the security question.   
Mr Z wasnt happy with HSBCs response so complained to our service. 
An investigator looked into Mr Zs complaint but she didnt uphold  it. She asked Mr Z for 
more details regarding  where he kept his security details and how he thought this could have 
happened. Mr Z explained that he keeps his online banking details in a drawer  in his 
bedroom which is locked  and hes not shared them with anyone.  He also suggested that he 
might have left his online details at his previous address  when he moved  around  three  
years before  and this might be how a fraudster  got hold of them.  And he didnt have the 
mobile device which  the bank claimed  was used to make the transfers. Having looked at the 
sequence of events, the circumstances  and the security information required to carry out the 
transfers she felt it was more likely than not Mr L authorised the transfers himself.
Mr Z didnt  accept our investigators opinion  and ask for it to be referred for an ombudsman 
for a decision. So its been passed to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why below. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Zs genuine online security details 
were used to make  the disputed transactions. But the regulations  relevant to this case say 
that is not, on its own, enough  to enable HSBC to hold him liable. So I also need to think  
about whether  the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr Z consented to the 
withdrawals being  made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to conclude  that Mr Z 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
Ref: DRN00950772-The disputed transactions were made  via Mr Zs online  banking   specifically his 
online banking app - to a new payee.  But theres no convincing explanation for how a 
fraudster could  have  accessed this and made  the transfers. To access Mr Zs online  
banking a fraudster  would need to know Mr Zs PIN and security  password. And to 
set up the new payee theyd need  his secure  key. Mr Z told our investigator hes not 
shared his online banking details with anyone and hes kept them  in a drawer  in his 
locked bedroom.  Mr Zs suggested  that a fraudster could  have obtained his online 
banking details from him leaving paperwork at a previous  address  but HSBC have 
explained only one set of online banking details were sent.  Even if I thought this was 
a plausible  explanation for how a fraudster obtained  Mr Zs online banking  details,  
theyd also need access to Mr Zs secure  key which was stored in Mr Zs locked 
bedroom. 
-Ive seen evidence  from HSBC that disputed  transactions were made from the same  
device as genuine log ins prior to the transfers. And the same  device was used when 
Mr Z logged in prior to reporting them to HSBC. 
-The disputed transactions were carried  out two days apart  it seems surprising if a 
fraudster had access to Mr Zs online banking that theyd  wait two days before 
carrying out the second transfer. It also seems unusual that around £80 remained in 
Mr Zs account  after the disputed transactions. 
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr Z authorised the disputed 
transactions. It follows that HSBC is entitled  to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr Zs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0095077