K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about problems he encountered gaining access  to Cofunds Limited 
(Cofunds)s trading platform.
background
Mr F held two accounts with Cofunds,  to which he had internet access. In or around July 
2018, Mr F attempted to upgrade the accounts to a new platform. Mr F was successful in 
securing online access for only one of the accounts.
As Mr F could only access one account,  he contacted Cofunds. He was advised that two 
email addresses were required, one for each account. Mr F was advised that the IT 
department was working on a solution. Despite further discussions with Cofunds, Mr F 
remained unable to access  the account  online.  In October, Cofunds suggested that the 
accounts could  be amalgamated and Mr F was advised that paper switches  could be 
undertaken.
Mr F says he lost confidence with Cofunds and decided to transfer his investments to 
another provider.  Mr F has complained about delay in the transfer process. Cofunds say this 
is a new matter, so I am not considering the transfer  process  within this decision. If Mr F 
wishes to pursue this issue, he should,  in the first instance, complain directly to Cofunds.
Cofunds now accept  that their suggested  manual workarounds of having  a second email  
address or merging  the accounts, would not have  corrected  the access issue. Theyve 
apologised to Mr F for giving incorrect information  and have offered £200  in compensation 
for the inconvenience  caused.  
Mr F feels this offer is inadequate to compensate for the length of time he has spent on this 
matter. Mr F says he was unable to access his account and has suffered a financial loss 
because he was unable  to switch the funds in the account into deposits, before the value 
dropped.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought things hadnt gone  smoothly,  but 
Cofunds had acknowledged there were IT issues and theyd provided information about how 
to transact  offline. Overall,  she thought the offer of £200 compensation was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr F disagrees with the view. He maintains that he should be compensated for financial loss 
as the value of his funds dropped and feels he should be compensated more for his time.
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN04235482I think its helpful to explain at the outset  that our service  has no disciplinary  or regulatory  
role. That means we have  no power to tell a business how to operate.  We provide an 
informal, dispute resolution service where we assess complaints on a fair and reasonable 
basis.
Its not disputed  that Mr F was unable to access one of his accounts online after an upgrade 
to Cofunds platform. Cofunds say this was due to the way the system set up the accounts 
and the problem is still being reviewed. Whilst Mr F wasnt able to access one of the 
accounts online, Cofunds have confirmed that Mr F could  have obtained  account  information 
by letter,  telephone or email and it would have been  possible  for him to make  a paper switch. 
It is also not disputed  that Mr F was given incorrect information about manual workarounds.
The issue  for me to determine is whether it is fair and reasonable to ask Cofunds to do more 
to put things right.
Mr F says hes lost out financially because he was unable to undertake  switches on his 
account. Mr F points to the fact that the average  level of the FT100 and World Index dropped 
between mid-July and mid-October. Mr F says that if he had been able to access  the 
account, he would have transferred his funds to deposit  funds  for safeguarding during the 
July-October period. He requests Cofunds  to compensate him for the drop in value of his 
funds. Mr F also says that hes spent a great  deal of time dealing with this complaint.
Im mindful that it is not fair and reasonable to assess this matter  with the benefit of 
hindsight; it is difficult to now say what Mr F might have done.  So Ive looked  to see what  
actions he took with other accounts around  this time. Mr F says he switched  other funds with 
other providers from equities to lower risk deposits,  but didnt do so until mid-October.  And 
Cofunds have  confirmed that Mr F didnt switch any funds in the other account he held with 
them. Also theres no record of a request to make  a switch at this time. On balance,  there  
isnt enough for me to fairly say that it is likely  Mr F would  have switched  his funds to 
deposits funds.  Im not satisfied Mr F has established that hes suffered any financial loss 
here.
I appreciate that Mr F was put to inconvenience  in having to contact  Cofunds  about online 
access and I fully appreciate that Mr F was frustrated by the misleading information he was 
given. But I have to balance that against the fact that Mr F had the terms and conditions of 
the account, which explained  the instructions options, namely that he could make  online or 
paper switches. It was also open  to Mr F to call, email  or write to get account information.  
I dont underestimate  Mr Fs strength of feeling about this matter,  but having  considered  
everything, it remains my view that the offer of £200  is fair and reasonable. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr F, but I wont be asking Cofunds to do anything more.
Ref: DRN04235483my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am not upholding this complaint. It is now a matter for Mr F to 
decide whether  or not to accept the £200  offer made  by Cofunds Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr F to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0423548