K820x#14Complaint
Mr M, the sole trader of B, complains Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) wont  refund him the 
money he lost as a result  of a scam. 
Background
What Mr M says
B has a business account with Barclays. In November 2018 Mr M decided  to buy a digger 
from a company he had used before.  He received  an invoice by email and arranged  for 
payment of £28,800  to be made  to the account details provided on the invoice  on 7 
November 2018.  On 19 November Mr M was contacted by his usual supplier about payment 
for the digger, as no funds  had been received. After checking the details with the supplier, 
Mr M realised hed been the victim of a scam  and the invoice  he received had been 
intercepted. The genuine account details had been replaced with those of a fraudster. He 
contacted Barclays.  Barclays  didnt agree to refund B the money lost, and Mr M felt the 
service provided when he reported the scam was poor, so he complained. He said online 
banking wasnt as secure as it needs  to be and that if Barclays  had checked the payee name  
the fraud could have  been prevented. 
What Barclays say  
Barclays accepted  Mr M did not receive  the level of service  he expected. When  Mr M 
reported the scam, Barclays  didnt set up a fraud case, Mr M had to make numerous  calls 
and he was given  conflicting and incorrect information. In recognition of this Barclays 
credited Bs account with £150. Barclays explained  £15,926.62 was recovered  from the 
receiving bank account and this sum was returned to B.
What Barclays has explained to this service
Although Mr M reported the scam on 19 November 2018, Barclays failed to log it as a scam  
until 27 November. However,  Barclays explained that its error hasnt impacted the resolution 
of Mr Ms complaint. This is because the receiving account was also with Barclays and it 
became aware  of issues with the receiving  account on 8 November 2018, before Mr M 
reported the scam. Barclays  blocked the account and removed £20,022.04,  but £4,095.42 
belongs to another party.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator did not uphold the complaint.  She said Mr M authorised the payment and 
that Barclays couldnt be expected to do anything more. She said this because after 
considering Mr Ms normal account and payment  activity the payment wasnt unusual  or 
suspicious in appearance so wouldnt be flagged in Barclays systems. Setting up new 
payees on a business account  also wasnt unusual. 
The investigator noted that checking the name of the beneficiary wasnt  a requirement at the 
time  all that was needed was the account number and sort-code. Finally, in relation to 
recovery, the investigator accepted Barclays hadnt taken steps to recover  Bs funds  in the 
timescale expected.  But as the funds werent  available when Barclays should  have taken  
action to recover them the delay hadnt had an impact. Barclays did provide poor customer 
service though, but acted reasonably in paying Mr M £150  to reflect  the upset caused. 
Ref: DRN09482622Mr M didnt  accept the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision,  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to review.  Mr M said:
-He understands  and accepts most  of the investigators findings, but the main  point 
was missed, and the conclusion  was unsatisfactory. 
-Barclays has now introduced measures that require the payee  name  to be entered 
and checked.  This should have been the case a long time ago.
-He thought the payee name would be checked.  What was the purpose of having  to 
give it if this wasnt the case?
-Barclays is hiding behind the mantra of you authorised it rather  than tackling the 
problem.
-At the very least Barclays should  have provided  a warning to say writing  the 
beneficiary name doesnt mean  the payment will go to that party. 
-He had never made a large payment to that company before. 
-Barclays has not done enough to protect its customer.
-The devastating effects of push payment scams are well-known, but banks have until 
recently turned a blind  eye. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say that my role is to consider what is fair and reasonable in the individual  
circumstances of this complaint rather than to say what measures Barclays  should have 
taken to prevent  fraud. I can also only consider Barclays actions in the light of what was 
expected of it at the time.  
When considering  whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Having 
done so Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator for largely the same  reasons. Ill 
explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment 
in circumstances  where it has reasonable grounds  (although  not necessarily proof) 
for believing  that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds 
of its customer  (known as the Quincecare  duty).
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard 
to the interests  of its customers  (Principle  6).
Ref: DRN09482623In addition, as a matter  of good industry practice in October 2017, I consider firms should in 
any event have taken  proactive  steps to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those  at risk of financial  exploitation (something also 
recognised by the FCA in recent  years  and by the British Bankers Associations  
February 2016  report improving  outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result  of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British  Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial harm as a result of fraud  or financial abuse   Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of).
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where 
a bank should, in my opinion, fairly  and reasonably  take additional  steps, or make  
additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer.
So taking all of this into account, in this case,  I need to decide whether  Barclays acted fairly 
and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr M when he transferred £28,800  on 7 November 2018. 
Im not persuaded Barclays acted unreasonably in making the payment. I say this because:
-Barclays should identify and help to prevent transactions,  and particularly unusual  or 
out of character transactions, that could be the result of fraud or a scam. Whilst the 
amount of money involved in this case is high, Im not persuaded the relevant 
transaction was unusual or out of character, or that there  were any indications to 
Barclays it might be the result of a scam.  I say this because B made  many  high value  
payments from the account including the following:
Date Amount Method
20/02/18 £19,800 Online bill payment
03/04/18 £41,400 Direct debit
16/04/18 £20,400 Online bill payment
26/06/18 £19,800 Online bill payment
04/07/18 £30,600 Online bill payment
06/08/18 £18,035 Online bill payment
17/08/18 £17,700 Online bill payment
-Ive also considered the fact the payment on 7 November 2018 was to a new payee. 
Mr Ms account was a business  account, so setting up and paying new payees  
wasnt unusual. Since the beginning  of April 2018 Mr M set up 25 new payees.  Mr M 
also set up a new payee and paid a large  sum to it before the scam. For example, 
the amount in the table above for £20,400 on 16 April 2018 was to a new payee. 
Ref: DRN09482624-Ive considered the fact that after Mr M made the payment of £28,800,  his business 
account was left with a balance  of -£148,287.57. Im mindful of the fact Bs account  
was consistently  overdrawn  by the same  or higher  amounts  (up to over £200,000) in 
the six months before the scam  transfer, so the balance also wasnt  unusual. And the 
balance on Bs account  was further  into overdraft after some  of the transactions  in 
the table above than it was after the scam transaction. For example, after the 
payment of £19,800 on 20 February 2018 Bs account was £220,028.19 overdrawn 
and after the £41,400 payment on 3 April 2018  Bs account  was £218,451.40 
overdrawn. So again, I dont consider the balance on Bs account after the 
transaction should have resulted in Barclays taking further  action. 
-Mr M has explained why he thinks the account name ought to have been  checked. 
He says that if the payee name didnt match the beneficiary account-holders name  
this should have been picked  up by Barclays at the time the payment was made.  But 
at the time the payment was made Barclays werent  required to check  this. Even  
after considering  Barclays  duty of care to its customers and in exercising skill and 
care, Im not persuaded Barclays has an obligation  to check  the account name 
before executing a payment.  The Payment Services Regulations set out what a 
payment service provider  needs  to do when executing a payment and says, where  
the payment is executed in accordance with the unique identifiers the payment order 
is deemed to have been correctly  executed. The account name is not a unique  
identifier and so Barclays isnt responsible  if this doesnt match when executing a 
payment.
I appreciate Mr Ms point that Barclays could be clearer on this point but that doesnt  
change the fact that the account name  wouldnt have been checked.
I understand the devastating effect fraud  has on its victims and am sorry for Mr Ms loss. 
Recovery and customer service
Finally, Ive considered  whether Barclays did what it could to recover  Bs funds when Mr M 
notified it he was the victim  of a scam. Barclays accepts its service fell short  in this case, and 
its clear this increased the upset Mr M suffered following the scam. Barclays  didnt  log the 
fact Mr M was the victim of fraud  until 27 November  2018 and gave incorrect and conflicting 
information in a number of calls at a time that was already difficult.  Barclays has already 
credited Bs account with £150, which I consider  to be reasonable.
Having carefully considered the available evidence Im not persuaded Barclays  delay has 
impacted the recovery of Mr Ms funds. I say this because Barclays had already taken action  
before Mr M was aware  of the scam  and so before he reported it. Mr M has received the 
amount he would have received had Barclays taken the right action when he first reported 
the scam  on 19 November 2018. In these circumstances  Im not asking Barclays to do 
anything more. Im satisfied B isnt entitled  to the remaining  £4,095.42  and the amount 
returned to B was fair in the circumstances. I say this because not all of the recouped funds 
belong to B.
Whilst Im sorry for Mr Ms loss I consider Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably  in all the 
circumstances of this case so Im not asking it to do any more.  
Ref: DRN09482625My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0948262