K820x#14complaint
Mr C complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard, failed to remove 
adverse information  recorded on his credit file following fraudulent activity on his account.
background
Mr C was a victim of fraud in October  2014  when the address on his Barclaycard account  
was changed  without his knowledge and his account was subject to fraudulent activity. 
Because of this, his account fell into arrears and defaulted in May 2016.
Mr C made  Barclaycard aware of the fraudulent  activity in April 2018, and Barclaycard 
agreed to write off the debt and remove the default from his credit file.
In November 2018 Mr C raised a complaint  with Barclaycard because the default had 
reappeared on his credit  file. Barclaycard accepted theyd made an error because theyd 
incorrectly reported the issue a second  time.  To put things right,  Barclaycard offered to pay 
Mr C £500 in recognition of the inconvenience  and frustration hed suffered as a result of 
their error. 
Mr C didnt accept this offer because  he felt Barclaycard failed to reimburse him for his 
losses. He felt their error had led to the rejection of numerous mortgage applications 
between 2017  and 2018 and caused his business  to lose around £12,000 per year.  
The investigator didnt  think Barclaycard  needed to do anything further to resolve Mr Cs 
complaint as she didnt  think  there was enough information  to show  the mortgages were  
declined solely because  of the default  reported.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He felt his independent mortgage 
consultants account  of what had happened  ought to have been  enough evidence  to show 
the defaulted account had caused the mortgage applications to be declined. As Mr C doesnt 
agree with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Theres no dispute that the default was reported  to the credit reference agencies  a second 
time incorrectly and that this caused Mr C trouble and upset.  The outstanding issue  is 
whether Barclaycard should be held responsible for the rejected mortgage  applications and 
financial loss Mr C says his business has suffered as a result.
Barclaycards records  show that Mr Cs account  defaulted in 2016 and they were first made  
aware of the related fraudulent activity in April 2018.  The records show  that as soon as 
Barclaycard was made aware of the fraudulent activity, they contacted  all three credit 
reference agencies  to have the default removed from Mr Cs credit  file. Barclaycard say it 
usually takes six to eight weeks for credit reference agencies  to update their records. But the 
records show that, by late April 2018, the default had been removed from Mr Cs credit file.
Mr C has provided information to show a mortgage application was declined  in March  2018. 
His mortgage consultant says mortgage  applications  were  also declined  in October 2017 
Ref: DRN01341972and February 2018 and one was accepted in December 2017. Given Barclaycard was 
unaware of the fraudulent activity until April 2018, I dont think  it would be fair to hold them 
responsible for not removing the default  before that date. Or for any impact the default had 
on Mr Cs mortgage applications before  then.  
This leaves  a mortgage application which was declined in May 2018,  after the default 
reappeared on Mr Cs credit file. Mr C believes the application was declined because of the 
default on his credit file. But I dont think theres  enough evidence  to say this application was 
declined solely due to the defaulted  account. Ive noted that Mr Cs mortgage consultant 
says they couldnt get the specific  reason why the mortgages were declined   but the 
mortgage providers  suggested Mr C check his credit report. I asked  Mr C to provide copies 
of his credit  file around the time he made  the applications. But he couldnt  provide this. I also 
note that although Mr C had mortgage applications declined during the period he had a 
default recorded on his credit file, he also had other applications  approved.  
Mortgage providers  assess  applications  against their lending  criteria   which means  they 
consider a range of factors before agreeing to offer a mortgage.  The letters from the 
mortgage providers  Mr C has shown  us dont specifically say the mortgage  applications were 
declined because of the adverse information  on Mr Cs credit  file. So, theres  a possibility 
Mr Cs applications were  declined for other reasons. Without evidence from the mortgage 
providers that the applications were declined specifically and solely  because  of the 
Barclaycard default,  I dont think it would be fair to say Barclaycard is responsible for this. 
Mr C has told us he owns 100% shares in a business and adverse information on his credit 
file will affect the businesss activities. He says Barclaycards error will have cost him around 
£12,000 per year  as well as around £950 plus VAT for information gathering and around 
£150 per hour for accounting  and audit services. But he hasnt been  able to provide tangible 
evidence to show this. So, Im unable to direct  Barclaycard to make an award for these 
losses.
Barclaycard has confirmed that the account is now closed,  and Mr C has confirmed that the 
default has been removed from his credit  file. Its clear this matter has caused Mr C 
significant inconvenience and frustration. Barclaycard  offered  to pay £500  to recognise the 
impact their mistake had on him but Mr C didnt accept that offer. As theres no evidence  to 
support Mr Cs belief that his mortgage applications were declined  because of the default 
reported or that hes suffered a financial loss as a result, I think  Barclaycards offer of £500 
fairly reflects the trouble and upset their error  has caused. So, Barclaycard should  pay Mr C 
£500 for the trouble and upset they caused.
my final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc have offered to pay £500  to settle the complaint and I think this 
amount is fair in all the circumstances. It should  now pay that amount to Mr C. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.  
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0134197