K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that she was mis-sold a term assurance policy by a representative of 
Personal Touch Financial  Services  Ltd. In brief, shes unhappy  because; 
she was incorrectly told the cover was mandatory, 
it wasnt necessary as she was single and had no dependents;
her existing employment benefits wouldve provided satisfactory cover;  and
as it was a shared  ownership purchase, level rather than decreasing  term assurance  
wouldve been appropriate.
Ms R also has concerns about the way her complaint was handled, particularly in respect of 
a telephone call she had with the representative. 
background
Ms R took out the policy in question in 2016 alongside a shared ownership mortgage.  Both 
products were recommended by Personal  Touchs  representative. The policy  provided Ms R 
with life and critical illness  cover for the full amount of the borrowing  £118,000   and for a 
term matching the mortgage of 25 years. 
In 2018 she complained about the sale of the policy. Personal Touch didnt uphold the 
complaint as it felt that it had been  generally suitable for Ms Rs circumstances at the time. It 
also highlighted that the mortgage offer had made  clear that only buildings insurance  had 
been a requirement  of the mortgage.   
Ms R then referred her complaint to this service. My colleague who reviewed the matter 
reached broadly  the same  conclusion as Personal  Touch about the suitability of the policy.  
But he did question whether life cover had really been necessary for Ms R, as she was 
single with no dependents,  and whether  Personal  Touch should  therefore refund the cost of 
that element of the cover. But having  looked  at some alternative costings Personal  Touch  
confirmed that it wouldnt  have been any cheaper  for Ms R to take out standalone  critical 
illness cover.   
In respect of Ms Rs concerns about  comments made to her by the representative  when 
discussing the complaint,  my colleague  suggested  a written apology, which the 
representative subsequently provided.
Ms R didnt agree with my colleagues view.  She stressed that her employment was 
particularly stable and that the extensive  benefits  it provided shouldve been  taken  into 
consideration. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as my colleague  and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ms R has said she was incorrectly  given  the impression that the policy was compulsory and 
a condition of obtaining the mortgage. I dont doubt that the adviser  wouldve been  very 
Ref: DRN09001362positive about  the benefits of taking the cover (which Ill come to shortly).  But, while 
acknowledging Ms Rs recollections, Ive seen nothing that leads me to conclude  that she 
was misled. 
Indeed, as has been noted, the mortgage offer confirmed that there was no obligation to take 
either life or critical illness cover. I note that Ms R has said she didnt have time to read the 
documentation at the time. But thats not something for which I can hold Personal Touch, or 
its representative, responsible. 
In respect of the suitability of the policy given Ms Rs circumstances, I think  it appears 
reasonable to have  made the recommendation to her. As a single person with no 
dependents, the critical illness cover  wouldve been  a clear benefit. I accept that the life 
cover wouldnt  have  been so important. 
But Im satisfied that Ms R suffered no loss as a result of the policy  including this. Personal 
Touchs research into the pricing of similar  policies  and its conclusion that standalone 
critical illness cover may well have been  more  expensive  seems  plausible. While I can see 
how this might appear counter-intuitive, in my experience its not unusual. In any event, the 
cost of the life cover  wouldve  been  minimal compared with the cost of the critical illness 
cover.
Ms R has highlighted  that her employment  was, and remains,  particularly stable and its 
associated benefits  go a long way towards  replicating the cover  provided by the policy.  But I 
nevertheless dont think that it was unreasonable for the adviser  to recommend separate,  
dedicated cover for the mortgage.  
Regardless of how stable the situation may appear  at the time of the advice, there  is always  
the possibility  that over a lengthy  mortgage  term  25 years  in this case  circumstances, 
however unexpectedly,  may change. As such, I dont think  it was wrong  to recommend 
separate cover. As Ive noted above, Ms R didnt have to take out the policy if she was 
confident that she would be otherwise protected for the term of the mortgage.
There is an argument that level term cover wouldve been appropriate in the particular 
circumstances of Ms Rs shared ownership  mortgage  as she may well have wanted to 
increase her share  of the property at some point  and in turn her borrowing. But, it wouldve 
been more expensive, so there wouldnt have been  a loss as a result of taking decreasing 
cover instead. 
Finally, as my colleague noted, as theres  no recording of the call that Ms R had with the 
representative, its difficult for me to reach any finding  on how it was handled. That said, it 
does seem clear that Ms R was upset by it. But I note the representative has written to 
apologise and explain that there was never any intention to cause  Ms R distress  or be 
disrespectful or offensive. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied  this is a reasonable way of 
addressing this particular issue and I dont  think any further action is required. 
Ref: DRN09001363my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0900136