K821x#15complaint
Ms M has complained about four loans she took out through MYJAR Limited trading as 
MYJAR (MYJAR). She says the loans  were not affordable.  
background
Ms M took four loans  from MYJAR between 2nd May 2017 and 8th November 2018. 
A summary  of Ms Ms borrowing is shown below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalmentsAmount Highest 
Repayment
1 02/05/2017 13/04/2018 12 £1850 £278.14
2 13/04/2018 13/09/2018 6 £950 £286.19
3 15/09/2018 07/11/2018 6 £1100 £342.29
4 08/11/2018 15/04/2018 12 £550 £84.07
The adjudicator concluded that the overall pattern of borrowing suggested  Ms M had 
become persistently reliant on short-term loans  when  she took out loan 3. So he partially 
upheld her complaint  and felt MYJAR  should  put things right with regards to loans 3 and 4.
MYJAR didnt accept the adjudicators conclusions.  So as both parties  are still not in 
agreement, the complaint has been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to make  a decision. 
If Ms M accepts my findings it will be legally binding  on both parties.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Ms M could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet 
a higher repayment  from a particular level of income);  
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN08937552There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
MYJAR told us that, when  the loans were  taken, it asked Ms M for details of her income  and 
expenditure costs.  It says it also carried out credit checks. Ms M was in the early stages of 
her relationship with MYJAR and the amounts that Ms M needed  to repay  seemed affordable 
compared to her declared disposable income.  Looking at MYJARs lending  to Ms M, I think  
the checks for the first two loans went far enough  and I dont think MYJAR was wrong  to 
lend to Ms M on these  two occasions. 
But from loan 3 I think MYJAR should have  been considering things  a bit further than just 
what Ms M was telling it. Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history  
with Ms M, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful.  And so MYJAR 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Ms case, I think that this point was reached by the 
time she asked for loan 3. I say this because:
Ms M had now been borrowing from MJAR for over 16 months  and wasnt  making 
any real inroads to the amount she owed MYJAR. The monthly repayment amount 
had increased  from loan 1 to loan 2 and she was now asking for a further  loan 
where the repayment amount would  increase  again,  16 months  after she first 
approached it.
Ms M had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to MYJAR 
over an extended period.
I think that Ms M lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing when it agreed to 
loan 3 because:
These loans had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Ms Ms indebtedness by 
allowing him to take expensive  credit  intended  for short-term use over an 
extended period of time.
Ref: DRN08937553The number  of loan was likely to have had negative implications on Ms Ms 
ability to access  mainstream  credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 3 and 4 and MYJAR should put things right as 
set out below.
Putting things right
MYJAR  shouldnt  have  given  Ms M loans  3 and 4. So it should:
refund all interest  and charges Ms M paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from 
the date they were  paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement*,
Any information recorded about loans  3 and 4 is adverse.  So all entries 
about loans 3 and 4 should be removed from Ms Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Ms M a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Ms Ms complaint. I require MYJAR Limited trading 
as MYJAR  to put things right for Ms M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0893755