K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland plc, (trading as Leeds Permanent Building 
Society, (Leeds)), mis-sold them  a mortgage  payment  protection  insurance policy, 
(MPPI).
background
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy in 1992  during a meeting at the same time as they took out 
a joint mortgage.  The premiums were £24 a month  and the potential benefits  payable of 
£400 a month was split between them.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that this complaint should be upheld.  As Mr and Mrs M disagreed  
with this view the matter has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in considering this complaint. 
Leeds has sent us a copy of the terms and conditions of the policy in use at the time. But, 
because the sale was so long ago, it no longer  has any of the paperwork signed by Mr and 
Mrs M. So, Ive made my decision on the basis of the information that I do have and what we 
know generally about MPPI policies. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I explain why below.
Understandably after so long, neither party has been able to give us much  detail about how 
the policy was sold. Mr and Mrs B have said that the fact that the insurance was optional 
was not made clear.  They say that Leeds advisor told them that taking  the policy would help 
their mortgage application  and that he or she was persistent. So I think its possible that 
Leeds encouraged them to have  the MPPI. But this was almost  30 years  ago and I dont 
think it is reasonable to rely solely on Mr and Mrs Ms recollection of what  took place. And in 
the absence of any more persuasive  evidence, I dont think that I can fairly and reasonably 
say that this amounted to Leeds  telling  Mr and Mrs M that they had to take the policy. So on 
balance I find that it is likely that Mr and Mrs B knew that the MPPI was optional  and that 
they chose to take it.
Leeds recommended  Mr and Mrs M to take the policy. This means that it ought to have 
taken reasonable  steps to ensure that it was suitable for their needs. I dont know what steps 
Leeds actually  took. But in any event  I find that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs M. I 
say this because, knowing  what I do about  Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time and 
the terms and conditions of the policy:
Mr and Mrs M would  have been eligible for the MPPI;
Mr and Mrs M were  unlikely to have been  adversely affected by any of the policys main 
restrictions and limitations  such as any relating to someone  with a pre-existing medical 
condition;
Ref: DRN06608532Mr and Mrs M have  told us that they were entitled to sick pay but havent  mentioned  any 
savings or other insurance which could have helped them make  their mortgage 
repayments had one or other  of them not been working. But, following a successful  
claim, the policy would  have  paid out for up to 12 months  had either of them been off 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. These  payments would have 
been in addition to any sick or redundancy payments Mr and Mrs M would have received 
from their employment,  leaving these available to help meet their other expenses while 
one or both of them were off work. So I find that the MPPI could have been of use to Mr 
and Mrs M;
I havent seen  anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs M couldnt afford the premiums for 
the insurance. In any event, as it was paid for monthly, had they later felt that the policy 
was unaffordable for them or that they no longer wanted it, they could have  cancelled  it 
at any time without further cost.
Its possible that Leeds didnt tell Mr and Mrs M everything that it ought to have about the 
MPPI, so that they could make  an informed decision whether they wanted  to take it or not. 
But as Ive concluded that they seem to have wanted this type of cover and that it could have 
been useful to them, I dont think that clearer information would have changed Mr and 
Mrs Ms mind  and stopped them buying it. I say this particularly bearing in mind  the serious 
consequences that may have arisen had Mr and Mrs M been unable to make their monthly 
mortgage payments,  which were  secured  on their home. This means that Mr and Mrs M 
havent lost out because  of anything that may have been wrong  with Leeds sales process. 
So theres nothing  that I require it to put right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 January 2020.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0660853