K821x#15complaint
Mr M says the advice given and the arrangements made by Insight Financial  Associates 
Limited (Insight) to switch his personal  pension funds into a Rowanmoor Self-invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP)  and to facilitate investment in overseas property was unsuitable.
background
Mr M had been self-employed for most  of his working life when the event complained  about  
happened. He ran his own plumbing  and heating  services business. And he had three buy-
to-let properties. Over three decades he paid contributions into four personal pension  plans.
Mr B of Mortgage Choice  had previously advised  Mr M about one of his pension plans. He 
was also an agent  for The Resort  Group  (TRG). Mr M was advised by Mr B to consider 
investing in overseas property. He was told about the substantial returns available, in 
particular the capital growth with the potential for property to double  in value over a decade.
Mr M was persuaded to reserve  three  properties  in the Cape Verde development  he 
signed the paperwork for this on 31 August 2009 and paid required fees. Subsequently he 
met with Insight to consider financing matters,  including his pension  arrangements.  This led 
to him transferring  his personal pensions into a SIPP with Rowanmoor,  which enabled him to 
transact with TRG for the overseas property.
Mr Ms pension  pots had a transfer  value of about £180k. He had two Standard Life 
retirement annuity contracts  worth around £132k.  He had a similar plan with Prudential  worth 
around £29k, although  this policy also had guarantees related to the annuity  hed receive 
and life cover. At the time Mr M was still making  contributions to his Standard  Life and 
Prudential plans. Mr Ms fourth personal  pension was with Clerical Medical and was worth  
around £19k.
The switch  of Mr Ms pension funds into his SIPP happened in March  and April 2010. This 
was followed by payment  from his account  of just under £121k  for the property investments 
in Cape Verde.  Mr M drew tax-free  cash (TFC)  of about £37k on 30 April 2010. Other 
transactions on his account include fees and from 2015 the receipt of a share  of the rental 
income from his apartments.
Mr M turned 60 in March  2017 and started  making  enquiries about releasing funds from his 
SIPP. He says he became concerned at that point because his fund was illiquid and there 
seemed little prospect of him being  able to take a regular  income.  Mr Ms representative 
says that in giving him advice about  and making  arrangements for the SIPP  and the 
investment in overseas property, Insight failed  in its regulatory duties.
Insight says it didnt  give Mr M advice about the investment in overseas  property.  It says 
hed already made that decision and its role had simply been to identify a SIPP provider to 
satisfy his objectives.
More recently Insight has suggested  that because Mr M used part of his TFC to carry out 
cosmetic repairs  on a rental property he had an understanding of property investment. It 
says he was a close  associate of Mr B who was a prolific TRG agent and so Mr M wouldve 
gone ahead  with the investment in Cape Verde irrespective of its advice. It also says he got 
a 5% discount on the purchase price, and this influenced his decision to proceed.
Ref: DRN05196942The adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint identifying failings with Insights advice and 
arrangements. Insight disagreed and so his case has been passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision last month. Insight disagreed with certain of my findings and 
the outcome.  Its provided new information to support its arguments, which Ive considered in 
arriving at this final decision.
Our jurisdiction to consider Mr Ms complaint
The rules  about  complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. Insight has previously disputed this Services jurisdiction to consider Mr Ms 
case. Its made arguments  that he made his complaint too late.
The Dispute Resolution rules (DISP) which  determine which complaints can be considered  
by this Service are set out in the regulators handbook. The rules include time limits by which 
complaints must be made. The DISP rule in this case is DISP 2.8.2. It says:
The Ombudsman  cannot consider a complaint  if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a)  six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limitswas the 
result of exceptional circumstances
Its not disputed  that the event complained of - the advice in 2009  for Mr M to transfer his 
pension funds into a SIPP enabling  the investment  in overseas property - took place more 
than six years from when he first complained in September 2018. But Insight says he also 
became aware,  or ought reasonably to have become aware, of cause to complain more  than 
three years prior to this.
Another ombudsman  investigated whether we have jurisdiction for Mr Ms case and 
concluded we do have authority to consider it. Ive reviewed the position again  and I wont be 
rehearsing all the arguments hes already made,  but Ive reached the same conclusion.
Insight maintains that when Mr M consolidated his interests in Cape Verde  in September 
2014, this shouldve made him aware  there  was a problem with the investment. It says:
The whole reasoning for the investment in the Cape Verde properties was to provide an 
income to the pension  plan and the Agents  would  have  discussed the income  with the client  
at the time they signed the reservation  forms. 
Insight has now obtained some of the marketing materials it says TRG agents wouldve used 
with customers to support  its argument.  I can see these do indicate a good rental stream 
could be anticipated  by investors.  Insight  says these were  not guaranteed  but wouldve been 
persuasive to individuals. 
Ref: DRN05196943Insight says that when Mr M changed the structure  of his interests in Cape Verde in 2014, he 
wouldve needed to complete new legal  documents. At this time, it says he wouldve been 
made aware  that by consolidating from the 3 properties he had agreed to purchase,  to 
owning one property outright and the other on a fractional basis, the rental income to be 
received in his SIPP  wouldve been  considerably  less than originally  discussed.  So, this 
shouldve alerted him to a problem with the investment.
Ive thought carefully about Insights arguments here. TRG clients  were informed about  
certain options for financing the residual  balance of their investments, which appear to have 
been ruled out a few years later. This was a trigger for restructuring.
But I dont think dealing  with the financing due on his apartments in 2014   which  appears  
was resolved to Mr Ms satisfaction through consolidation of his investments with nothing  
further to pay - wouldve alerted him to the problem hes raised. While I agree he shouldve 
been aware that the implication of the new arrangement hed reached  was that hed be 
receiving less rental income  as a result, the corollary for him was that he didnt have to inject 
further capital.  So, there  was some balancing  in the financial equation  here.
Mr Ms complaint is about being unable to access further benefits from his pension when he 
wanted to in 2017. Mr M says that at the outset TRG  had told him selling the properties 
would be straight-forward,  that there would be a strong resale  market  and that it would assist  
in the process.  But this proved not to be the case, his representative told us he only decided 
to complain:
[when he] started making enquiries as to releasing funds from his pension,  only to find out 
it was illiquid  and there was little prospect of him having his pension liquid in order to receive 
a regular income.
Ive reviewed the file and note Mr M enquired about  converting his SIPP to a flexible 
drawdown arrangement  in 2015.  I understand he was considering buying another  buy-to-let 
property in the UK at the time. But in the end, he says he decided  against it because of the 
tax implications and didnt take matters  any further.
I cant see anything on file that makes me think Mr M knew or ought reasonably to have 
known that access  to further of his pension benefits  through the sale of his interests in Cape 
Verde wouldve been a problem prior to 2017.
So, Mr M has made his complaint in time and I can consider it. This rest of my decision will 
focus on the merits of Mr Ms complaint.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Wheres theres conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties  have provided lots of information  and argument about the events complained  
about. Ive not provided a detailed response  to all the points raised.  Thats deliberate; ours is 
an informal service for resolving disputes  between financial businesses  and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart  of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05196944Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr Ms case?
The first thing I considered is the extensive regulation  around  transactions  like those 
performed by Insight  for Mr M. The FCA Handbook contains eleven  Principles  for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook).  These include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly
In British Bankers  Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011]  EWHC  999 
(Admin), Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever-present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied  with. The Specific rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them.  They are but specific  applications  of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach  
a view on a case without  taking the Principles into account in deciding  what  would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory  duty without having regard to 
the sort of high-level principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms like Insight. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone  has switched their personal pension,  I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants  or 
needs reasonable? And so, should  the adviser have recommended  the switch?
Ref: DRN05196945Each case is different,  but Id expect the switch to be in the consumers best interests to 
make the advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made 
between the old pension and the new one.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial  Services  Authority, 
published a checklist  for pension  switching  that I think is still helpful  today. It highlighted  four 
key issues it thought should be focussed  on:
-Charges - has the consumer been  switched  to a pension that is more expensive  than 
their existing  one(s) or a stakeholder  pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include  the loss of ongoing  contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits  early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance  about  unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report. Although issued after the advice  given  to Mr M, this report was a reiteration 
of existing guidance.
The report  contained  examples of good  practice  in relation to unregulated investments, for 
example where  a firm had robust  controls in place and limited  client exposure to 3% to 5% of 
their portfolios, where  those clients had been  assessed as being  suitable for unregulated 
investments. An example  of bad practice  given by the FCA was where up to 100% of a 
clients holdings were  invested in a single  UCIS  (unregulated collective  investment  scheme).
Even if the Cape Verde  investment wasnt technically a UCIS, it is unregulated  and shares 
similar characteristics including the high-risk nature of the investment, it being illiquid and 
subject to counter-party and development risks. So, I think these matters  are relevant to my 
consideration.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs.  For 
example, in January 2013 it issued  an industry alert which said:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to [SIPPs] that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid  unregulated  investments
Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
Ref: DRN05196946If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
As the adjudicator noted, although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr M, it 
wasnt new guidance; it was the regulator re-stating its position.
did Insight adhere  to the regulatory requirements placed  on it?
In short,  I dont think Insight met the regulatory  requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
I understand Insight  met with Mr M at an airport hotel on two occasions. It was during these 
meetings that the advice was given  and much of the documentation completed  and signed.
Insight had to obtain information  from Mr M in order to understand essential  facts about him. 
In order to advise  him to switch his personal  pensions into the SIPP with Rowanmoor and 
facilitate investment in the Cape Verde development, it had to believe that:
-The service or recommended transaction met Mr Ms investment objectives 
(including his attitude  to risk, the purpose of investing and how long he wanted  to 
invest for).
-Mr M was able to financially withstand  the investment risks.
-Mr M had the necessary experience  or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
From reading the case file, its seems highly unlikely that Insight  ever put itself in a position 
to meet  these obligations. For example, the fact-find which appears to have been completed  
in February 2010  is sparsely populated. Where there are gaps,  the following statement is 
typical of what can be found  throughout:
Discussed with financial  adviser, not disclosed to Insight.
Of the little information  we can glean,  its recorded that Mr M was 52, married and in 
employment. It didnt  obtain any information about  his income or outgoings.  Theres no 
information about his assets  or liabilities.  Brief details about his personal  pension plans are 
recorded. His desire to retire when he was 75 is noted (although disputed by Mr M) and 
when he did retire his priority was said to be to maintain his standard  of living.
I think that because  the information Insight derived from the fact-find was seriously deficient 
it provided a very precarious base  from which to offer advice about such an important 
transaction  that is the switching of Mr Ms personal pension  funds into a SIPP to facilitate 
investment in overseas property.
Mr Ms attitude to risk was recorded  as medium to high  but he didnt complete a risk 
questionnaire. At the bottom  of the form it says:
This was discussed  with your financial adviser who completed the attitude to risk 
questionnaire with you. You are aware that the Cape Verde properties  are high risk and are 
prepared to take the additional risk
Ref: DRN05196947I can see that in the financial planning  report (FPR)  it prepared for Mr M dated 19 February  
2010, Insight did provide  the following warning:
I have made you aware  that the purchase  of a SIPP and utilising only the investment of a 
commercial property such as your Cape Verde  property will increase the risk level of your 
investment as factors such as the lack of liquidity of the property asset and you have only 
one asset class. You stated this is suitable to fulfil your objective  of purchasing the Cape 
Verde property and are aware  of the associated  risks involved.
Ive thought about this, and some other warnings Mr M was given in the FPR. The problem 
for Insight  is that it undermines the advice it gave  like the warning  on risk through  some  of 
the additional commentary in the report. For example, immediately after this warning it says:
Furthermore your adviser will have  discussed  your risk profile  in more depth and has 
confirmed that you suit this type of investment.
This is odd, because Insight knew that even its summary assessment of Mr Ms risk appetite 
showed the investment in overseas property wasnt appropriate for him. I think it shouldve 
advised without  equivocation, and without seemingly to assure Mr M by referring him back  to 
what his unregulated adviser  is purported to have considered about the investment.
And while it comments on having  the bulk of his funds tied up with one asset.  It does nothing  
to draw this out meaningfully for Mr M. Whereas  the FCA illustration of good practice was to 
allow for perhaps around 5% of someones funds to be invested in these sorts  of assets, the 
Cape Verde properties would eat up over 80% of Mr Ms residual pension funds.
Ive other  concerns. For example,  about  the level of fees and charges Mr M would be paying 
for his new pension arrangements compared  to his previous schemes which  were  relatively  
competitive. Mr M also appears  to have incurred a penalty of over £8,000  for switching  his 
Standard Life plan. And the loss of guarantees from Prudential  for an annuity  and life cover 
werent adequately explored. 
Insight says these  matters wouldve been discussed thoroughly with Mr M and that he clearly 
still wanted to proceed  with switching his personal pensions into the SIPP and Cape Verde 
investment. It doesnt see how else these  matters couldve been documented. But Im not 
making a point here about how these things  were recorded. Rather the judgement it 
shouldve been  forming about the suitability of what was being  proposed.  
On the matter of the duty of care Insight owed Mr M there are several examples where it falls 
short. For example, it notes that Mr B provided  Mr M with advice about the alternative 
investments he purportedly wanted  to make. But it wouldve been aware, or shouldve been,  
that Mr B wasnt a regulated adviser  and the business he represented wasnt regulated 
either. 
Insight says Mr B was responsible for gathering  information from Mr M for many of the key 
documents, such as the initial fact-find  and the risk questionnaire. It says Mr M signed them,  
so he was obviously content. But I dont think it can rely on this to avoid the responsibility it 
had for getting  to grips with the information.  It had a duty to do this given the importance  of 
the transaction it was about to undertake  on his behalf, and for which it was charging him a 
significant fee.
Ref: DRN05196948Mr M has told us that Mr B was only ever involved in advising him on his Prudential  personal 
pension plan. He says although Mr B told him about  the Cape Verde investment opportunity, 
he never received  financial  advice from him.
I dont think Insight took enough interest  in the getting to the bottom of Mr Bs role. And I 
cant see its drawn Mr Ms attention  to the significant downsides  of dealing with unregulated 
individuals and businesses. In my view, this shouldve put Insight on alert that it was even 
more important that it understood properly his objectives  and circumstances. Rather it 
seems to have skirted around these matters.
Its clear Mr M was referred to Insight for advice about moving his personal  pensions to a 
SIPP so he could invest in high risk overseas property. Insight knew  what he was 
contemplating, but says it wasnt responsible for the investment advice.
I disagree with the argument Insight makes here. The regulatory position  is clear. It had a 
duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of Mr M. And to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable. It couldnt  do this without 
considering the suitability  of the investments being  proposed.
My conclusion here is supported by the alert issued by the then regulator in January  2013. 
And although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr M, it wasnt new guidance;  it 
was the regulator re-stating the position.
Insight couldnt  ignore  Mr Ms intention of investing  in overseas property. If it didnt consider 
this to be suitable in his circumstances, it should  have said so - rather than presuming that 
the transfer was necessary for this to happen.  It had a duty to consider the suitability of the 
whole transaction,  not simply limit its advice to choosing  the best SIPP provider.
Mr M was transferring his pension funds to the SIPP for investment in overseas property. 
Theres no duty of care exhibited here by Insight in terms of understanding  his capacity to 
withstand losses. The investment was high risk and posed liquidity issues.  And theres  no 
evidence he was a sophisticated investor.
Insight couldnt  seek to exclude  or restrict any duty or liability  it had to Mr M. It had an 
obligation to consider the suitability of the investment he was considering, and it couldnt  
avoid this by asking Mr M to sign terms of business  instructing it to only consider the 
pension switch in isolation, or by implying  such in documentation like the FPR.
Insights main recommendation was:
Your primary objective was to purchase  your Cape Verde property through your pension  
fund and the recommended plan can do this for you.
Insight shouldve provided Mr M with an explicit recommendation  not to proceed  with the 
switch of his pension funds into the Rowanmoor SIPP, the purpose of which  was to invest  all 
of his pension  plan funds into unregulated overseas property.  It failed to do this.
Instead, Insight  made arrangements  for the switch  of Mr Ms personal pension plans into a 
SIPP, which  would be dealing in overseas property.  It signed off the applications  using its 
authorisation details.  It transmitted the necessary applications. In doing so, it led 
Rowanmoor to believe Mr M had been properly advised on the transaction.
Ref: DRN05196949In doing all this, Insight was aware Mr M was being exposed  to significant risks in the 
investments it was facilitating.  It knew these funds could be illiquid, meaning Mr M might 
have difficulty getting access to his pension funds.  The investment was specialised,  out of 
the ordinary and reliant on third parties. And it was subject to valuation  uncertainty.
In a recent  submission to this Service insight suggested that because Mr M used part of his 
TFC to carry out cosmetic repairs on a rental property he owned this meant he had an 
understanding of property  investment.  I dont  find this a telling argument. A buy-to-let 
business interest in the UK seems  to me to be a very different prospect to an overseas 
investment in Cape  Verde  linked to his pension.
Insight says Mr M was a very close associate  of Mr B who was a prolific TRG agent. Its 
provided a trail of emails that it offers  in support of this assertion. These show  how Mr B was 
involved in trying to obtain  Mr Ms signature on documents relating to the switch  of his 
pensions. It says this means whatever it had advised hed gone ahead  with the investment in 
Cape Verde in any case. 
Unfortunately for Insight  it wasnt able to provide any persuasive information  to show  this 
was the case.  It didnt  advise Mr M not to go ahead.  And theres no insistent client 
paperwork showing Mr M wanted to proceed  in such a fashion. Theres also an absence  of 
compelling evidence  of Mr Bs influence over Mr M. As such, it wouldnt be reasonable for 
me to conclude anything other than Mr M wouldve followed  the advice of Insight had it 
recommended to him not to proceed  with the overseas property investment.
Insight also says that Mr M got a 5% discount  on the price of the three properties he brought 
from TRG in 2010 and that this incentive  was key to his investment decision.  Ive no doubt  
that any discount was welcome  but deals  of this nature are not unusual  especially when  
buying more than one property. It wasnt a major  discount. 
Mr M has been adamant that he never received a direct payment for entering into the 
agreement from the agent. On balance I dont find the argument  that Mr M made  the switch  
of all his personal  pensions to benefit from a modest property price discount  persuasive.
To conclude  I dont think the switch of Mr Ms pension funds into the Rowanmoor SIPP and 
the investment  in overseas property  could sensibly be regarded  as fair to Mr M. As such  I 
think Insight failed to meet the regulatory requirements when making these arrangements.  
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against  Insight  and for it to put things right.
putting things right
Mr M needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in now - or as close  to that as 
reasonably possible   had it not been for the failures  which  I hold Insight responsible  for.
If Insight had done everything it shouldve, on balance  I dont  think  Mr M wouldve switched 
funds from his personal pension plans into the Rowanmoor SIPP and high-risk overseas 
property investment, and so he wouldnt  have  suffered the illiquidity, value uncertainty and 
financial loss hes now facing.
That said,  although Mr M says there  was no pressing need  for him to access his TFC early, 
he did and he put this significant capital  injection  to work in his business.
Ref: DRN051969410So, in arriving at what I think is fair redress Ive tried to weigh  all these matters.
I require Insight Financial  Associates  Limited  to put things right in the following way:
1. Calculate a notional  loss Mr M has suffered as a result of making the switch
1.1 Insight should obtain the notional value  of Mr Ms Standard Life and Clerical Medical 
plans at the same date of calculation, assuming he wouldve remained invested in the same 
funds. So, as if his plans hadnt  been  switched to the Rowanmoor SIPP.  If there are any 
difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income Total  
Return Index - prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total  Return 
Index - should be used  as Im satisfied its a reasonable proxy for the type of return that 
couldve been achieved  if Mr Ms pension had remained invested in his previous plans.
1.2 Insight should obtain the cost of purchasing an annuity paying the same income as the 
Prudential policy, arranged on the same basis and using the date of calculation,  agreed at 
1.1, as the notional date of vesting.
1.3 Mr M took tax-free cash in 2010 so Insight can make an adjustment  for this. Because  he 
had use of this capital from 2010,  its fair for Insight to be able to add interest  from the date 
of payment until the date of calculation using the Bank of England interest  rate. 
1.4 I cant see that Mr M made any further contributions  or withdrawals from his SIPP.  If 
there were, then after confirming the detailed position, the value  Insight obtains,  or the 
calculations Insight makes should assume  these adjustments would still have occurred and 
on the same  dates.
1.5 The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional  value  of Mr Ms 
former personal pension  plans and the current value of his SIPP including  any investments 
and cash held (see step 2), will be his basic financial  loss that Insight needs to redress.
2.Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed
2.1 To close  Mr Ms SIPP  and avoid  ongoing fees,  the investments  need to be crystallised.  
To do this Insight should ask the SIPP provider to determine an amount its willing to accept 
as a commercial value for the investments and Insight can then pay this to take ownership of 
them.
2.2 If Insight  is unwilling  or unable to purchase the investments, the value should  be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation. In this instance, where Insight has 
compensated Mr M fully in line with my assessment, then it may ask him to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from 
the investment.  That undertaking  should  allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount he may receive from the investment  and any eventual sums he would be able to 
access from the SIPP. Insight will need  to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking.
3.Pay an amount into Mr Ms SIPP so that the transfer value is increased by the loss 
calculated (resulting  from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted 
for tax 
Ref: DRN0519694113.1 If compensation is paid into Mr Ms SIPP, payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available  tax relief, so that he is in the same position as if hed stayed in his original 
personal pension  schemes.
3.2 If paying compensation into Mr Ms SIPP would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and Insight takes on his investments, then it should  pay 
him compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.
3.3 The notional  allowance for tax would reduce the amount  payable  - after any TFC (Mr M 
still had a small element  of his fund which was uncrystallised and where TFC was available).
3.4 Insight should also pay interest  on the loss calculated  from the date of calculation to the 
date of payment  at 8% simple. Income tax may be due on this interest. If Insight  deducts  tax 
it should provide  Mr M with a tax certificate.
3.5 Insight should also provide details of its calculations to Mr M in a clear format.
4.SIPP fees
4.1 If the investments arent removed from Mr Ms SIPP, and it remains open  after 
compensation has been paid, Insight should pay him an amount equivalent to five years of 
future fees.  This should  allow enough time for the issues with the investments to be dealt 
with, and for them to be removed  from the SIPP.
4.2 If, after five years,  Insight wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking 
for any future payments under the investment, it must agree  to pay any further future  SIPP 
fees. If Insight fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mr M should then have the option of trying to 
cancel the investments to allow the plan to be closed.
5.Trouble and upset
5.1 I also think the difficulty Mr Ms experienced in trying to secure an income  for retirement  
wouldve caused him inconvenience and worry. In recognition of this it should  pay him £250  
for trouble and upset.
putting things right  summary
I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial business, given the regulations  that 
apply in this case, of up to £150,000,  plus any interest  and costs  I consider appropriate. If I 
think that fair compensation is or could be more than the £150,000 limit, I may recommend 
that the business pays the balance.
decision and award: I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as set out 
above. My decision is that Insight  Financial Associates Limited  should  pay Mr M the amount 
produced by those  calculations  - up to a maximum of £150,000, plus any interest.
Ref: DRN051969412recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculations  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Insight Financial  Associates Limited  pays  Mr M the balance.  
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Insight Financial Associates 
Limited doesnt have  to do what  I recommend.  Its unlikely that Mr M can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for any balance. Mr M may want to get independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. So, Insight Financial 
Associates Limited  must pay compensation to him as Ive indicated above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0519694