K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains about a claim on a gadget insurance policy  provided  through  her bank. As 
the underwriter of the policy, Assurant General Insurance Limited  are responsible  for this 
complaint. 
background
Miss M made a claim for two faulty laptops, which were used by her children. They  were  
initially sent to Assurant and repaired.  However,  having been returned to Miss M  and 
having spent time setting  them up and reinstalling  software on them,  she found they 
remained faulty. They were returned to Assurant  for a second time. 
Assurant said the first laptop couldnt  be repaired,  so offered a cash  settlement of £279.99. 
Later, Assurant confirmed the second  laptop  couldnt be repaired, and offered a cash  
settlement of £259.97.
Miss M was unhappy with the difference in settlement amounts, because the laptops were  
the same  make and model and were  purchased  on the same day. Her expectation was that 
shed receive the amount she originally paid for the laptops, which  was £319.99 each.  
Miss M also complained about various  issues  with the claims process, around the collection 
and delivery of the items, the timing of the repairs, and having  to request updates about what 
was happening.  
Assurant said the settlement  offers  were based  on equivalent specification laptops available  
on the specific day of settlement.  It says this is in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
However, it offered  a total of £85.00  compensation in recognition of the other issues Miss M 
experienced. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint should  be upheld. And that Assurant should pay Miss M 
an additional  £50.00  to make up the difference in price between  the two settlement 
amounts and to provide some  extra  compensation. Miss M was happy  with this outcome, but 
Assurant disagreed. It said the laptops the settlement amounts were based on were of at 
least equivalent specifications  and were based on the prices  available  on the day of 
settlement. Assurant said it had settled  the claim in line the terms and conditions  of the 
policy. 
Our adjudicator couldnt resolve the complaint, so Ive been  asked  to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions state the following about how claims will be settled:
If your device  is damaged or breaks  down we will either:
orepair the device,  or
oreplace it with a device of the same  make and model. If we cannot  do this you 
will be given  a choice of models  with an equivalent specification.
Replacements
Ref: DRN00145042oWhere we replace  the device the replacement may be a remanufactured (not 
brand new) device.
oIn the event we are unable to provide a replacement we will contact you to 
discuss an alternative claim settlement.
Assurant couldnt  repair the laptops.  So, the next step was to try and replace them.  The 
specific model that Miss M had was no longer available. This meant Assurant was unable to 
replace them. 
Under the terms of the policy, Assurant then had to discuss  an alternative claim settlement 
with Miss M. It did this, but Miss M is unhappy with the settlement offered. The policy  doesnt  
explain what  an alternative  settlement would be. But I think a cash  settlement is a 
reasonable alternative. 
However, because  the policy is silent on this, and on how the settlement  would be 
calculated, Ive thought about  what settlement would be reasonable in the circumstances. 
The policy indicates  that replacement wouldnt be on a new for old basis  because it says a 
replacement may not be a brand-new device. So, I dont think Assurant has to pay Miss M 
the original amount she paid for the laptops.  
Assurant seems to have intended that the cash settlements offered would be sufficient for 
Miss M to purchase a refurbished (or remanufactured as the policy  describes it) laptop of at 
least equivalent specification. It appears to have  sourced the settlement amount from an 
online retailer. I dont think that is unreasonable, although I acknowledge Miss Ms 
reluctance to purchase a laptop online from a retailer that she isnt familiar with. And her 
desire to test the laptop in person, prior to purchase, to ensure it is appropriate for her 
children to use. 
However, I think that Miss Ms expectation  that she would receive an identical settlement for 
both laptops is reasonable. They were the same age and the claims for both were initiated 
(albeit not settled) on the same  day. 
Im also mindful of the other issues that Miss M has experienced, as well as what  Assurant  
has done to try and put things right. But overall,  given the expectations of both Assurant and 
Miss M, I think an additional  payment of £50.00 would be an appropriate way to resolve this 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. I direct Assurant General Insurance  
Limited to pay Miss M £50.00. 
To be clear, this £50.00 is on top of the cash settlement of her claims (£279.99  and £259.97) 
and £85.00 compensation Assurant has already offered to her. If it hasnt actually paid 
Miss M those other amounts, then I direct Assurant General  Insurance Limited to do so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0014504