K821x#15Complaint
Mr J says CP Hodgson Limited  (CPH)  was negligent  in the advice it gave him about  his 
savings and pension  portfolio, in particular that his money ended  up in funds that were  in 
excess of his attitude to risk. He says it did this even  as he was approaching  his goal 
retirement age.
CPH is represented in this case by Kennedys law firm.
Background
CPH took on responsibility  as servicing agent for Mr Js personal pension in January 2010. 
In July 2010 he sought advice about the performance of his Individual Savings Account 
(ISA). After completing a fact-find  and a questionnaire about his attitude to risk and 
discussing matters arising, it made  several  recommendations.  These  included:
-The transfer of his existing ISA to a new provider  to access  more funds and target 
growth until age 55. And to utilise his remaining allowance  for the year to invest 
further funds.
-To invest a lump  sum in a Collective Investment Bond for the benefit of his children, 
seeking long-term growth. Funds  were  not to be accessed until they reached a 
minimum age of 18.
-To invest a further lump sum and make monthly contributions into a Collective  
Investment Account. Again, the focus would be on growth  to a minimum age of 55. 
Funds would eventually be transferred across to the ISA on a yearly  basis  within 
allowance limits.
-Arrangements for making a Will and initial consideration of inheritance  tax (IHT) 
issues were also covered.
Mr J accepted the main recommendations,  and these  were  given  effect over the following 
months. The main  provider selected was Skandia,  this was later taken over by Old Mutual  
Wealth (OMW) which Ill refer to from this point onwards  for simplicity.
The following  table draws  on some  of the basic information available on file about the 
savings and pension  products which Mr J had with OMW during the period covered by his 
complaint.
Product CPH 2010 
investment 
recommendationsStart date End date Comments*
ISA Transfer £123,000 to 
new ISA. Plus 
£8,000 contribution 
to utilise annual 
allowanceAugust 2010 Still open  when 
servicing transferred Additional top-ups to 
ISA between 2010- 
2016 
Collective Investment Account
£18,500 to establish 
CIA. Plus monthly 
contributionsAugust 2010 March 2016 Funds transferred  into 
ISA. 
Ref: DRN08742872Collective Investment Bond
£25,000 to establish 
CIBAugust 2010 Still open  when 
servicing 
transferredTop-up in October 
2011
Collective Retirement Account
March 2015 Still open  when 
servicing transferred Initial contribution with 
top-up in April 2016
Personal Pension November 1995
Still open  when 
servicing transferred Regular contributions 
made between 2010- 
2016
* Derived from available  information   may not be a complete record
 
Mr J removed CPH as financial adviser to his portfolio in November 2016. He says this 
happened because  of the poor performance  of his investments. After putting in place  a new 
adviser, it reviewed his position. This led to Mr J bringing a complaint  against CPH in 
September 2017 about its role in advising him about his investments.
When Mr J complained to CPH  he said the fund switches  it had advised  him on and 
executed since  2010 hadnt  been supported by research and documentation showing why 
these were appropriate.
Mr J said although his risk appetite  had been assessed in 2010, it hadnt been reviewed 
again subsequently. And he told us hed become aware that one of the funds his portfolio 
had invested in - Blackrock Gold & General (BG&G)  was only suitable for high risk 
investors.
Mr J said CPH was aware of his goal was to retire  at 55, yet it didnt alter its investment 
advice over time. He also told us that funds in his ISA were intended to be used to pay 
down his mortgage. He said CPHs record keeping was poor.  And that it had in part relied  
on hearsay to reject his complaint.
Mr J says he has suffered substantial financial loss as a result of CPHs negligence. At the 
point he transferred his portfolio to another  financial  adviser,  he said that even worse than 
receiving no return on his funds, the capital hed invested had actually been significantly  
eroded.
CPH rejected Mr Js complaint. It said all the recommendations it had made had been 
suitable and consistent with his circumstances. It said any fund switches  had been  agreed 
with its adviser and had always  been  appropriate  for his risk appetite.  It said Mr J would  
also have received confirmation of any fund movements through  statements from OMW.
CPH said it had no record  of Mr J discussing his plans for phased  retirement  when he 
reached 55. It also didnt  recognise what he had told this Service about wanting to use his 
ISA funds to pay down his mortgage.
CPH noted that as a chartered accountant Mr J was a financial professional. And he had 
knowledge and experience of investment and savings  products. Further, as an introducer of 
clients for around a decade, working  very closely with the adviser whod given him the 
original advice in 2010, he wouldve understood these matters better than the average  
person. CPH noted it had cancelled the introducer arrangement  with Mr J in 2016.
The investigator thought Mr Js case should be upheld. CPH disagreed and raised a 
number of concerns  about her recommendations. So, Mr Js complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh and to arrive at a decision.
Ref: DRN08742873As I set out in my provisional  decision, I thought about the time limits that apply to our 
jurisdiction. Although Mr Js complaint touches  on the advice he was given in 2010, his 
original complaint and subsequent approach to this Service is about the ongoing advice, 
and the arrangements  made, in relation to his investments across  his pension and savings 
portfolio.
Mr J says that it was only following his engagement of another adviser in 2017  that CPHs 
failings were brought to his attention. He made his complaint at that time. Given the 
evidence available, Ive no reason  to conclude this case is out of time.
To give both parties  an opportunity to consider  my initial findings and conclusions,  I issued 
a provisional decision  in April. Both parties made further representations.
In summary,  CPH considered Mr J to be a sophisticated investor, who knew well the risks 
he was taking on. It noted his assessed  attitude  to risk was medium/high.  It denied hed 
ever told it that 55 was his target retirement date. It also said there was nothing  on record  to 
show it was aware his ISA funds  would be used to pay off his mortgage.
And in summary,  Mr J thought I should review  all the fund switches  made across his portfolio 
while CPH had been  his adviser. He thought it had been acting as a fund manager without 
the necessary  permissions. He estimated his capital and investment loss combined was over 
£400,000. He also thought I should apply monetary  limits  to his case  which  were  announced 
by the regulator after hed referred  his complaint to this Service.
Ill deal with the arguments  made by both parties where appropriate  in this final decision.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Some of the testimony  Ive been provided with is contradictory. Memories can and do fade - 
I dont expect people  to have perfect recall of events  which  took place over the course of a 
decade. Wheres theres conflicting information about what  happened and gaps in what  we 
know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats  most  likely to have  happened.
Most of the documentation in this case has been  provided by Mr J, I think  following a 
subject access request he made to CPH. Ive seen documentation provided OMW, the 
provider of his pension and savings products. And both parties have provided testimony 
concerning the events  complained about.
Ive not provided  a detailed response  to all the points raised. Thats deliberate;  ours is an 
informal service  for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart  of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by CPH for Mr J. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses,  
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must  adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
Ref: DRN08742874-Principle  2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
-Principle  3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
-Principle  6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
So, the Principles  are fundamental and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at 
the relevant time. They must always  be complied  with by regulated firms like CPH. As such, 
I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Js complaint.
Further, at the material time, COBS  2.1.1 R required a firm to act honestly,  fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its clients,  in relation to designated 
investment business  carried on for a retail client. The definition  of designated investment 
business includes  arranging (bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R set out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, CPH  had to obtain the necessary information regarding: the 
consumers knowledge  and experience in the investment  field relevant to the advice; their 
financial situation; and their investment objectives.
At the heart  of Mr Js complaint is concern  about CPHs ongoing services and advice in 
relation to his portfolio. But its helpful  to consider what I understand to be the initial advice 
it gave him in 2010. I say this because both parties  rely to some extent on the matters  
established at that time.
Mr J was 48 years old when  CPH  first gave him advice. He was single with two dependent 
children. He was a chartered accountant and had his own limited company. Mr J was on a 
salary of £6,500  a year and drawing dividends  of £33,000 from his business. Its recorded 
that his net monthly income  was £3,000  and his outgoings £2000.
I can see from the fact-find that in 2010 Mr Js priorities for advice were around  investment 
 both a lump sum and making  regular savings. His objectives were recorded as follows,  to:
-Save on a regular basis until age 55.
-Transfer  his existing  ISA to reduce charges and improve growth  potential, and to top- 
up his ISA for the current tax-year.
-Invest a single premium into investment bond  for the benefit of his children and a unit 
trust for his own savings.
CPH made various recommendations consistent with these objectives as already set-out. 
Its of note that by this time it had already taken  on the servicing of Mr Js personal pension.
A key issue  in this case concerns the degree  of risk Mr J wanted to take with his pension  
and savings portfolio.  He says the only assessment conducted by CPH was in 2010. It says 
that as a matter  of routine  when  it reviewed his portfolio  it would always have begun by 
asking him if thered  been any changes in his circumstances, if not then it wouldve worked  
from what was on file. Mr J disputes  CPHs version  of how its financial review  process  
worked.
Ref: DRN08742875Ive not seen a record  of the regular reviews  CPH  says took place  with Mr J, showing his 
circumstances and risk appetite were routinely and properly explored.  That said it did send 
Mr J a letter in March  2016 about its recommendation to move funds from his Collective 
Investment Account  to his ISA. This did confirm his appetite was medium/high risk. So, on 
balance, its more likely than not his outlook remained consistent  over the material  period.
Significantly, CPH said its original advice  was focussed on investments. And that it didnt 
cover retirement planning. The paperwork from 2010 backs  up its version  of events. But this 
means when it took on the servicing  of Mr Js personal pension, earlier  in 2010 it wouldve 
needed to have understood his risk outlook  in that regard.
As CPH will recognise, the risk a customer is willing to take with their investments inside 
and outside a pension can be very different. Ive not seen any evidence of a separate risk- 
assessment process  or even a discussion  on this point. Thats a problem  how could it 
safely manage Mr Js pension  without  understanding the position here? 
Yet there appears to have  been switching activity on Mr Js pension  plan after CPH had 
taken responsibility  for it, but prior to the advice  it gave him later in the year about his 
savings and investments.
Returning to the risk assessment  that was conducted in June 2010.  After completing a 
questionnaire, CPH produced two assessments for Mr J. The first said he had a low 
appetite for risk (1 out of 10 on the scale it used).  The commentary was that Mr J wanted an 
element of caution and safer investments such as cash in the immediate future  given 
market volatility at the time.
The other assessment  CPH produced found  Mr J had a medium/high  outlook (6-8 out of 10 
on the scale it used). It was noted that when  market conditions became  less volatile, he 
was prepared to take an increased  element of risk to improve  his opportunity for growth. 
The description provided for a medium/high risk investor was as follows:
This category is for the investor  requiring  long-term  growth which is inevitably balanced by 
the risk of short/medium term losses. Investment is almost exclusively in equites across  a 
broad range of sectors and will include exposure to smaller UK companies as well as 
overseas companies  largely in Europe  and the USA where there is the additional currency  
risk.
The form also went on to give examples of investment  types appropriate for Mr Js risk 
outlook:
Stock market Managed  funds; European General Funds; Global Equity  Funds; North 
American General  Funds UK Index Tracker  Funds  UK All Companies Funds; UK Smaller 
Company Funds.
Its curious that CPH  found that in the immediate term Mr J had a low risk appetite and that 
market volatility was a concern  to him. Yet he was assessed with a significant appetite 
when things had settled down. Given the inherent nature of investment risk, Id have  
thought this warranted further exploration to test whether  his appetite  had been  assessed 
properly. Theres no record of this happening.
However, I note Mr J signed the risk profile  questionnaire, agreeing  with the outcome at the 
time. And his complaint  has focussed on why further  assessments didnt happen  in future 
years, rather  than the initial  exercise.
Ref: DRN08742876Even if I didnt have concerns about CPHs initial approach to assessing  Mr Js appetite for 
risk, based  on the information available to me theres another significant problem with what 
it advised Mr J.
The risk assessment system CPH  used  defined a high-risk investor (the category above  Mr 
J) in the following terms (bolding is my emphasis):
This category is for the adventurous investor  who already has a diversified portfolio and 
wishes to expose a relatively small portion to high risk investment. Capital could be 
subject to partial  or total loss. Investments will include direct investment, specialist  
sector and Emerging Market funds as well as the Far East which are all prone to high 
volatility potential loss. It will also include more obscure products, many of which  are tax 
driven which are only suitable  for the sophisticated investor.
The form also went on to give examples of investment  types appropriate for this risk 
category:
For example: Specialist Sector  Funds;  Emerging Markets Funds; Japan Funds; Far 
Eastern Funds; Direct Equity Investments; Warrants; Hedge Funds; Film Partnerships;  
Venture Capital  Trusts; Enterprise  Investment  Schemes.
One of the specific  concerns Mr J has raised  with this Service  has been that CPH invested  
money from across his portfolio in funds  that were beyond his risk appetite. Hes identified  
use of the BG&G vehicle.  Ive reviewed some of the literature available about this fund. A 
summary of its investment objective is as follows (bolding is my emphasis):
The aim of the Fund  is to achieve long-term  capital growth primarily through  an actively  
managed portfolio  of gold mining, commodity and precious-metal related shares. The 
Fund may also invest in other transferable securities and units  in collective investment 
schemes. Derivatives  may also be used for the purposes of efficient portfolio 
management.
BG&Gs risk profile is assessed as 7 out of 7. The following description is typical:
The Fund  is exposed to movements in global stock markets and currency fluctuations 
which may cause the value of the Fund to fall or rise. In addition,  the Fund  invests  in gold 
and other  precious metal mining  shares  which can experience above average  volatility 
compared to other  investments.
The BG&G  fund was beyond Mr Js risk appetite. And Ive found no documentation  on file 
where CPH  has explained its rationale  for advising him to move  into this fund. Ive not seen 
any advice about  why the fund was specifically suitable.
Ive seen nothing  from CPH that shows Mr Js BG&G holding was part of his overall 
portfolio strategy, for example to balance low risk funds. Ive seen no analysis about the 
appropriate extent  of his exposure  to this fund,  nor how it would be managed. Further,  
theres no argument or evidence Mr J instructed  CPH to make  these investments on an 
insistent client or execution only basis.
Its also of note that in its letter to Mr J from March  2016, when advising him what to do with 
his Collective Investment  Account funds, it specifically warns  against certain  options  saying 
(bolding is my emphasis):
This type of investment  normally consists of a single investment which  makes  these 
investments only suitable for investors with a high-risk tolerance and are for experienced 
sophisticated investors only. Therefore this type of investment does  not match  your 
personal financial profile and your  attitude to risk
Ref: DRN08742877CPH was saying Mr J wasnt a sophisticated investor,  a matter Ill return  to later, nor did he 
have a high attitude to risk.
In its response to my provisional decision,  CPH has focussed on the risk assessment for Mr 
J and him having  a medium/high appetite.  But its failed to engage  with how and why his 
pension and savings  were exposed to unsuitable high-risk  investments. It follows that I 
remain of the view this was a significant failing. 
Mr J says that CPH never  assessed his capacity for loss. It says the adviser  covered  this 
area as part of the initial risk assessment process. Ive concluded there were problems with 
this part of the process as well, based  on the information Ive seen.
At the time of the advice in 2010,  Mr J had his own home with an outstanding mortgage of 
around £145,000. He was making interest  only payments and had seven years to run on 
the loan before the capital  would  need  to be repaid. A significant omission in the fact-find  is 
how he would meet this liability.
Mr J had a stocks and shares ISA worth around  £123,000 and £60,000 in his bank account. 
Another significant omission  from the record in 2010 was that he also had a personal 
pension plan, which he says was worth around  £150,000 at the time.
I cant find any reference to Mr Js capacity  for loss in the available paperwork. Perhaps the 
closest to this is a response to one of the questions on the investments risk profiler form 
which records he was planning  to invest 25-50% of his assets.  But the same form also 
records Mr J was mortgage free  this is at odds with the fact-find.
Mr J has told us the plan was to use his ISA funds to pay off his mortgage. Kennedys, on 
behalf of CPH, said:
The complainant has not referred to any documentary instructions to suggest that our client  
was aware of thisOur client had no involvement in arranging the complainants  mortgage,  
or a vehicle to fund its redemption
Mr J also said it was always his aim to retire at 55. CPH dispute he ever discussed  this with 
its adviser. I find this discrepancy in accounts  odd for a number of reasons. We know  CPH 
took on responsibility for servicing his pension  in January 2010, so I wouldve expected a 
discussion about his objectives here  otherwise how would it know  what actions  to take on 
his behalf?
In responding  to my provisional decision Kennedys said:
It is denied that the complainant ever stated that 55 was his target retirement age. We have 
not seen anything on our clients  file to suggest  that this was the complainants intention. 
Indeed, we note that the intended retirement on the complainants  pension was 65The  
complainant would have received annual statements which  identified  the intended  retirement 
age, and produced projected illustrations as at the intended retirement  age.
There is evidence to support both arguments  on the retirement  date. For example, Ive seen 
the pension illustrations CPH refers to showing a retirement age for Mr J at 65. But equally,  
there are references in the paperwork pointing to the significance of him reaching 55. For 
example, on page  14 of the fact-find the purpose of his new savings arrangements was 
identified as creating  an income from a lump sum by that age.
Ref: DRN08742878Further, contemporaneous information  undermines CPHs testimony that Mr Js aim to 
retire hadnt been discussed. In its letter to him of 6 August  2010,  recommending  the 
establishment of a Collective Investment  Account, it specifically refers  to the reason for Mr 
Js investment being his retirement at age 55.
It seems  to me more  likely than not Mr Js retirement  plans werent firm. Nevertheless, 
theres sufficient information to suggest  early retirement was an option  hed have  
considered had circumstances permitted. And its a matter I wouldve expected  to have 
been discussed and assessed  when making  investment  decisions related  to his pension  
provision, and of course recorded  accordingly.
In its response to my provisional decision I think CPH misses the point on these matters. It 
isnt what it did or didnt know about  how Mr J would meet the capital  repayment  required at 
the end of his mortgage  term, or what it knew about his retirement aims, the point is it 
shouldve not only been alert to these matters but also to have had these in mind in 
providing him with advice  about his pension and savings  portfolio.
Leaving aside the equity in Mr Js home, his next most significant asset was his main 
personal pension.  He had no other provision for retirement at the time. CPH has failed to 
engage with why there appears to be no meaningful assessment of his capacity for loss, 
which Id expect to see as part of the analysis about the risks he could afford  to take, as 
well as the risk he was willing to take.
Taking all these matters together its difficult to conclude anything other than Mr Js capacity 
for loss was limited. CPHs exercise to establish  his position was inadequate.  It follows  that 
I find this to be another significant weakness  in the care and skill it exhibited in its dealings 
with Mr J.
Mr J supplied us with some transaction statements for the various  products CPH  was 
servicing. Ill focus on the two main elements in his portfolio  his ISA and his main personal 
pension.
I can see that Mr Js ISA funds took a holding in BG&G early on. In December 2010 about  
£19,600 was invested. This was followed in August 2011 and September 2011 with further  
investments of around £33,300 and £38,900. So, in a little over a year after switching his 
ISA provider on CPHs recommendation,  a substantial proportion  of his money  had been  
placed with a high-risk fund.
Not only was BG&G specifically beyond Mr Js recorded appetite  for risk, its clear  this 
wasnt a matter of balancing  his interests  across a range of different risk funds. Around  two- 
thirds of his ISA pot was concentrated in this same fund.
Indeed, if we consider the definition  provided  by CPH for a high-risk investor  which Mr J 
wasnt  it seems  the approach it was taking with his money  wouldnt even have been 
appropriate for that category of client, given the scale  of exposure and the lack of 
diversification.
I note in June  2014 the BG&G holdings in Mr Js ISA were  sold off. It seems  from the 
transaction listings, given  the unit price, he sustained a major loss on the investment. Ive 
not been supplied with any documents which show how this information was communicated  
to him. Nor have  I been  provided with a record of the discussions  that I wouldve expected 
to have taken  place prior to and around  the time of this event.
Ive also reviewed the transaction listings for Mr Js main personal pension. It also shows  
that from December  2010  some  of his money  was being invested  in the BG&G fund. By 
Ref: DRN08742879June 2014 this had built up to around 20% of his pot. At least  there appears to have been 
less concentration  in this high-risk fund.
However, CPH hasnt  provided any commentary on the investment  strategy  it had agreed 
and was pursuing for Mr J in relation  to his retirement pot. And again in 2014  I can see 
there was a sell-off  his BG&G holding, crystallising  a loss on those shares.
OMW has provided copies of statements Mr J wouldve  received at 6-monthly intervals  
covering the performance of his investments. I cant see this wouldve alerted him to 
individual fund performance. 
For example, the statement hed have  received covering the period between 6 April 2014 
and 5 October 2014, shows  a summary  of performance for all the products in his portfolio 
(excluding his personal pension). I can see this detailed summary account income, 
outgoings and values, fund values and even transaction details  over the 20 or so pages. 
But theres nothing  to show profit, loss or movement on specific funds  over time.
Thats presumably where CPHs  ongoing advice service shouldve  come to the fore. Its 
provided schedules  from 2015 and 2016, which it says it shared with Mr J as part of its 
regular financial review  process. Im surprised  it cant supply me with information prior to 
this period. But even if I assume similar information  was available  to Mr J in preceding  
years, I cant see this wouldve made him aware  of individual fund performance.
In responding  to my provisional decision CPH has provided no further information in this 
area. So, Ive concluded  there was a lack of transparency about what was happening 
across Mr Js portfolio.
Mr J told us that as well as his general  concern  about the switches  exposing  his funds to 
high risk investments  beyond his appetite that had been agreed, CPH compounded the 
problems in 2016 when it moved all of his funds, across all his savings, investment and 
pension products back into the BG&G fund.
I can see in the lead up to this thered been  text exchanges between CPH and Mr J about 
market volatility connected  to the outcome of the Brexit referendum. He said this was 
initiated by his adviser and ended up with all his monies being switched into cash.
The texts  Ive seen  paint a somewhat richer picture  of what was happening and show Mr J 
was concerned about the effect  of Brexit. Indeed, when it appeared that his pension pot 
hadnt been moved into cash, he sent the following message to CPH:
I need  confirmation  re my pension fund switch into cash which I requested  prior to the 
announcement of the EU result. My ISA and bond  were switched on the 23rd June 
Thursday prior to the result but I got paperwork yesterday from Old Mutual saying the 
pension switch took place on 24th June after the EU result had been announced and so 
when the markets had dropped, I hope  this is wrong because this is not what I wanted as 
you are aware, I wanted everything into cash before the result was announced.
Although theres  little to go on here in terms of understanding the conversations  happening  
between the parties  and the basis for any advice CPH was giving Mr J, based on this 
message it seems he had a strong  desire  to mitigate  market volatility  at the time. And 
whether or not this was the appropriate  action,  on balance, it seems more  likely than not he 
wouldve insisted on this action in any event.
Ref: DRN087428710Arguably, having given CPH the benefit  of the doubt about the switch of all Mr Js funds into 
cash, its clear to me that its responsible for what happened next. On 3 July 2016 it sent an 
email to Mr J which said the following:
Gold bullion has started  to rise in price at a fast pace, over the weekend in out of market 
trading it has significantly  increased in price 1341$ per troy ounce.
I have just moved my own personal  funds into BlackRock Gold & General.
Would you like me to switch yours now from the BlackRock Cash to BlackRock Gold & 
General ?????
Please advise as a matter of urgency!!!!
Mr J responded:
Yes thats fine if you think that is where we should  be.
There are a number of problems with CPHs actions here, including:
-The movement  of all of Mr Js funds  across his portfolio into a single investment that 
was beyond  his risk appetite, leaving him in a more concentrated and exposed position 
than hed ever been  in.
-A lack of information about why such a move was in Mr Js best interests  given what it 
knew about  the different purposes  for each of his funds.  Why was such  advice equally 
appropriate to his pension planning, and his savings accounts?
-The irrelevance of what Mr Js adviser was doing with his own funds, given his different 
objectives and circumstances.  Further, the poor practice in using such  a device to 
seemingly influence  the decision making  of a client.
So, while Mr J conditionally accepted CPHs suggestion about what should happen with his 
funds, its not possible  to view this transaction in a way that shows  it was treating him fairly 
with his best interests in mind  quite  the reverse.
CPH hasnt  demonstrated  that it conducted  its business with Mr J with due skill, care and 
diligence. In particular,  Ive identified several failings with how it conducted the risk 
assessment exercise  and how this was applied to the advice it was giving him about the 
fund switches being made.
CPH hasnt  been  able to provide the sort of information Id have  expected to see in this 
case. For example,  I cant see how the investment strategy it was following for Mr J was 
appropriate across  all the products it was advising him on. Its not done enough to satisfy 
me that it was ever appropriate  to have  been using the BG&G fund in the manner it did for 
any element of his portfolio.
Theres a general  lack of evidence  showing Mr J was made aware in a transparent manner 
about the performance of his individual funds, sufficient to satisfy me he understood what 
was happening.  And theres very little information to put alongside the significant level of 
switching activity on his accounts. Yet, CPH is required to take reasonable care to organise 
and control its affairs  responsibly and effectively.
In responding  to my provisional decision, Mr J has said he thinks that CPH  failed to adhere 
to FCA regulations in respect of all fund switches it advised on across his portfolio.  He says 
that the only fair way to assess his financial loss would be to use the redress  methodology I 
proposed in my provisional decision and apply it to all his investment products and funds.
Ref: DRN087428711I dont think this would reasonable  for a number of reasons. I note his initial  complaint 
focussed in on one particular fund, which was in excess  of his risk appetite. Looking at the 
switches hes listed, I cant see any obvious  major shift in risk exposure. And the other 
investments, as part of a portfolio seemed to be in line with his overall risk appetite.
Its not the role of this Service to provide a detailed financial  review  of each and every 
transaction that did and didnt happen  over the past decade or so. Mr Js new financial 
adviser identified  matters of particular concern and these  have  been  considered.  I think its 
more likely than not had other significant specific issues been identified  following that review, 
he wouldve raised  them at the outset of the complaint process.
Mr J also said he thought  CPH had acted as a discretionary  fund manager  without the 
necessary regulatory  authority or expertise. The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) register 
sets out the scope of what regulated firms  are allowed to do. I note CPH is authorised to 
provide advice on investments, arrange (bring about)  deals in investments and make 
arrangements with a view to transactions in investments. Ive not seen evidence that it went  
beyond these permissions.
What was the impact  of CPHs failings on Mr J?
CPH has said that as a chartered accountant  Mr J was a financial professional. And its 
representative noted:
Over the course of approximately ten years, at least 50 clients were  introduced  to our 
client by the complainant. Indeed, the complainant was being paid introducer fees by [CPHs 
adviser] up until he left our client firm, and then directly by [CPH] until the complainants 
introducer agreement  was cancelled. He had spent many years attending client  meetings 
with [CPHs adviser]  at which  he will have observed  on numerous occasions,  advice being 
given to others about risk profiles  and investment strategies. Our client would not have 
entered into an introducer agreement with the complainant unless it was confident that he 
was well versed in investment strategies,  with an in depth understanding of the benefits, as 
well as risks,  of investments. This is absolutely not a situation  where  the complainant was a 
lay person  who was completely inexperienced in investments.
The complainant was clearly a sophisticated investor and understood exactly  what  he was 
investing in, and the risks involved;  it is absurd to suggest otherwise. By way of example, in 
advance of the Brexit vote, the complainant exercised his option  to reduce his investment  
risk in a potentially volatile market and instructed our client to sell his investment funds and 
put them all into cash. This sort of instruction was not something which  our client generally 
experienced with other investors. The complainant knew  his mind, understood investment 
strategy and the risks involved when investing  in the equity markets.
CPH has asserted  that Mr Js profession, his role as an introducer and his relationship  with 
one of its advisers meant that Mr J wouldve had a very clear  understanding  of what  was 
happening with his funds across his portfolio. And it seems to imply he wouldve been 
strongly influenced in his decision  making by the relationship he had with its adviser.
Ive thought carefully about these matters.  Did Mr J understand what was happening to his 
funds? What was the impact of his generating business for CPH and being  rewarded for 
this? And, would  the suggested close relationship  he had with his adviser have influenced  
his behaviour?  And while Ive found several failings with CPHs approach in this case,  even 
if it had got everything  thing right,  would  this have changed what  happened?
Ref: DRN087428712As a longstanding  qualified  accountant Mr J was involved in producing accounts for small  
businesses. As well as meeting regulatory  requirements, he was able to help his clients use 
the information to become more efficient.  So, he was certainly a financial professional. I 
also think its more likely  than not hed have been comfortable  reviewing the information he 
received about  his portfolio from CPH and OMW. And I think  he knew  about the switching 
that was taking place on his accounts.
But being  an accountant didnt make Mr J an expert in investments and pension  products. 
Ive set out in particular  matters around  the assessment of risk appetite and capacity for 
loss and alignment of these with individual circumstances  and objectives  and then with an 
investment strategy. Ive identified  how considerations  around  pension  planning can be 
different to other  savings and investments. The interplay of these matters is complicated.
So, it doesnt follow that because Mr J introduced business to CPH  off the back of his 
accountancy activity  for clients, Im bound to find that he had a good  grip of all pension and 
investment matters. 
Further, CPH hasnt  produced any information showing that it dealt with Mr J as anything 
other than a retail  client. There  are no documents indicating that any of the transactions he 
made were as an execution only client, aside perhaps  from the move  of all his investments  
into cash around the time of the Brexit  vote (although even here theres  disagreement about 
what really happened). Theres  no insistent client paperwork.
Mr J told us that there werent  detailed discussions about which investments to make. He 
said he regarded this as CPHs job - thats what he was paying it for, and he left it to get on 
with advising in his best interests.  He says he took an interest in the performance of his 
portfolio at financial reviews, which happened  around once a year. However,  as Ive already 
noted, from what Ive seen this wasnt as fulsome or as transparent  as it needed  to be.
Mr J told us about his role as an introducer  for CPH. He was comfortable performing the 
role because he thought it was a well-run, knowledgeable and professional  company at the 
time. He says he performed the role for 3-4 years and introduced 10-20 people to the firm. 
This would happen when  he could  see that his clients would benefit from pension  advice. 
Mr J told us that his relationship with his adviser  wasnt especially close. They  didnt travel  
regularly to meet clients together, although  that did happen on occasion. And there were no 
discussions about his own investments.  In any event, the closeness of his relationship  with 
CPHs adviser isnt telling. Its CPH as principal that is responsible for what  happened.
CPH hasnt  done  enough  to satisfy me that Mr Js role as an introducer or his relationship 
with its adviser had a material effect  on what happened. Ive concluded  that had CPH 
advised Mr J to invest his funds in a manner  consistent with his appetite  for risk, hed have 
followed its recommendations and he wouldnt now have had cause for complaint. It follows  
that Im upholding his case.
Putting things  right
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim should be to put Mr J as close  to the 
position he would probably now be in if hed not been given unsuitable advice. I take the 
view that he wouldve invested  differently.  Its not possible to say precisely what  he 
wouldve done. But Im satisfied that what I have  set out below is fair and reasonable given 
his circumstances  and objectives when he was invested.
To compensate Mr J fairly, Im proposing that CP Hodgson Limited use the following 
framework:
Ref: DRN087428713-Compare the performance  of Mr Js investments  whenever he was placed  in the 
Blackrock Gold & General  Fund - for any of the products in his portfolio - with that of 
the benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value  of the investment, over the relevant period.  If the actual value is greater 
than the fair value , no compensation  is payable.
-Pay him interest  on any losses as set out below.
-Provide him with clear  workings to show how it has calculated the payment due.
-Pay him £500 for trouble and upset caused  by its failings.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment name
Status benchmark from (start date)
to (end  
date)additional interest
Blackrock Gold  
& General  
FundTransferred FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index date of 
investment  
into BG&G  
funddate switched  out 
of BG&G or when 
CPH was 
removed as 
adviser8% simple per year 
on any loss from the 
date of each 
maturity, or when 
CPH was removed  
as adviser, until the 
date of settlement
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what  the investment wouldve been worth  at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
-Mr J wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
-The FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income  total return index)  is a mix of diversified indices  of 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government  bonds.  It would be a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although its called an income  index, the mix and diversification provided  within  the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr Js 
circumstances and risk attitude.
Putting things  right  summary
Mr J wanted me to apply  thresholds for redress that applied to complaints referred to us at a 
later date than he brought his case. I cant do that, I have to stick with what  the regulations  
provide for. I recognise that Mr J estimates  his losses at around £400,000, somewhat 
beyond the award  limits  I must adhere to in his case. He can of course reject my decision 
and pursue matters  through the courts should  he so wish.  
Ref: DRN087428714I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial business, given the regulations  that 
apply in this case, of up to £150,000,  plus any interest  and costs  I consider appropriate. If I 
think that fair compensation is or could be more than the £150,000 limit, I may recommend 
that the business pays the balance.
decision and award: I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as set out 
above. My decision is that CP Hodgson Limited should pay Mr J the amount produced by 
those calculations - up to a maximum of £150,000,  plus any interest.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculations  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that CP Hodgson Limited  pays Mr J the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  CP Hodgson  Limited doesnt 
have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely  that Mr J can accept my decision and go to court  
to ask for any balance.  Mr J may want to get independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept  my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Js complaint and I require CP 
Hodgson Limited  to pay the redress  Ive detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2021.
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0874287