K820x#14complaint
Mrs E says that HSBC  Life (UK) Limited  unfairly refused to pay claims under three term 
assurance policies  held by her late husband. Specifically she says that HSBC  made it 
impossible for Mr E to pursue a claim whilst  the policies were  in force, and instead cancelled 
them. 
background
Mr E held three policies  with HSBC. The first was a level term assurance policy  that started 
in November 1998. The second  and third were a mortgage protection  policy comprising  life 
assurance and critical illness cover and a decreasing term assurance both of which began in 
January 2005.
Mr E sadly  passed away in January 2009 after suffering  with a type of pneumonia.
Mrs E made contact with HSBC, firstly during a call in late 2018,  and then by sending it a 
letter in April 2019. She explained that she has suffered from poor health  and severe 
financial difficulties ever since and hadnt been able to address  any concerns over the 
policies any sooner. 
HSBC issued a response  to Mrs Es complaint in August 2019. It said the premium for the 
LTA policy  was missed in 2007. It sent Mr E a letter dated 31 October 2007 to explain that 
the arrears needed  to be paid or the policy would lapse. On 29 November 2007, it wrote to 
Mr E to say the policy had lapsed. 
On 19 December 2017, HSBC received a £300 cheque  from Mr E for the missed  premiums. 
Since the policy had lapsed, HSBC asked Mr E to complete a new direct debit mandate  and 
a declaration of health form. However,  it received no reply and therefore returned  the 
premium cheque to Mr E on 21 January 2008.
In respect of the DTA policy  and the mortgage  protection policy, the premiums  stopped  
being paid for these  on 26 June 2008  and 16 July 2008 respectively.  As with the LTA policy, 
HSBC sent Mr E lapse  letters.  As the premiums  remained unpaid, each policy  was lapsed 
after 30 days  in accordance with the policy terms. HSBC  says it heard nothing further from 
Mr E within the next year, and so it couldnt offer to send him a declaration of health. 
Finally, HSBC said it had no evidence of Mr E making a claim at any time while the policy  
was in force. It therefore didnt agree it had unreasonably prevented  Mr E from doing so. 
Mrs E lodged her complaint with this service  in May 2019. She said HSBC would only accept  
premium payments by direct debit and therefore it had made it impossible for her and Mr E 
to carry on with the policies. 
Our investigator said that he wasnt able to uphold the complaint. He realised  Mrs E had 
been through a distressing time.  But, though Mrs E felt HSBC had unfairly cancelled the 
policies, that wasnt supported by the evidence from the time. The information showed that 
premiums were not maintained for the policies, and HSBC wrote to Mr E on several 
occasions. That the premiums were  not set up going forward with a new direct debit was not 
the fault of HSBC.
He was not able to find any evidence  that Mr E had ever pursued a critical  illness claim. 
Ref: DRN07407812Our investigator also said that there  was another policy applied  for in 2003 but this didnt  go 
ahead due to Mr E having a minor  health  issue at the time. 
Mrs E said that in the years before his death, Mr E suffered from ill health and HSBC  had 
made them rearrange their finances, by cancelling their direct  debits  in branch. But she felt 
claims should have  paid out if it wasnt  for HSBCs actions. She said that another car 
insurance policy was reinstated  but not the life and critical illness policies.  She feels that 
HSBC has purposely  tried to avoid  claims on the policies. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
outcome as our investigator.
I realise my decision will be incredibly  disappointing for Mrs E, but I have to be fair to both 
parties in a complaint. That means looking at the evidence we have from the time,  and 
deciding if I think a business has acted unfairly  or unreasonably in some  way. 
I know Mrs E says she feels  that before the policies lapsed that a claim  could have been  
made on one of the policies for Mr E for critical  illness.  But there is no evidence of any type 
of critical illness  for which Mr E could or did pursue a claim under the policy that began  in 
January 2005  and ended in June 2008. 
If Mrs E believes she has evidence  of a critical illness event that Mr E could have claimed  
against during  the life of the policy, then she should direct that to HSBC  in the first instance.  
As it stands, there is no evidence that a claim  was ever pursued. 
As regards  the lapse  of all three  policies, I can see Mr and Mrs E were going  through  a very 
difficult time and I have no doubt about  Mrs Es recollections of having to refinance and 
cancel their direct debits. 
But, if I were to consider  that all three  policies should have paid out claims to Mrs E after 
Mr E sadly  passed away in 2009 then Id have to disregard the correspondence after the 
direct debits were cancelled. And I cannot do that. It is relevant evidence  I must consider. 
For each policy, HSBC  allowed Mr E the opportunity to reinstate his cover by setting up the 
direct debits again. And it did so after they had lapsed  by inviting Mr E to complete a 
declaration of health. 
I know Mrs E sent a cheque for the first policy to lapse, but by that time the direct debit had 
to be reinstated  because  HSBC had to take steps to get the policy  back  to its original state  
and premiums must be paid by direct debit. I cant say HSBC  did anything  wrong  by asking 
that Mr E take that step. It requires monthly  premiums to be paid by direct debit; this was the 
basis upon which the insurance  contracts were set up in 1998 and 2005.
HSBC told Mr E that it required a new direct  debit mandate form and it was not returned. I 
cannot hold HSBC responsible for that. All of the correspondence sent by HSBC was issued 
to the correct address. 
I am sorry  to disappoint Mrs E when I can see she has been going  through  some very 
upsetting circumstances. But as Ive said above,  I can only uphold a complaint if I find a 
Ref: DRN07407813business to have acted unfairly or unreasonably  in some way. That hasnt happened here. I 
can see no evidence of any claim being pursued  for critical  illness, and HSBC sent timely 
correspondence inviting  Mr E to prevent his policies  from lapsing and/or to reinstate them. I 
cannot ask it to pay claims now where  the policies all ended  before any claim for death 
benefit arose. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0740781