K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
Background
In 1998, Mrs M asked for a PPI policy when she applied for a mortgage. It wasnt set up at 
the time,  and so in 2000 Mrs M complained  to Halifax  and sent in an application for PPI to 
back-date the policy to 1998.  Mrs M paid for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium,  which  
didnt attract interest.  It covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided that Mrs Ms PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
There doesnt seem to be any debate that Mrs M agreed to the PPI. I can see her mortgage  
application mentioned it as something to consider and offered her the choice to take it or turn 
it down. Mrs M signed the option  to buy PPI. It wasnt set up at the time, and two years later 
Mrs M complained to Halifax as shed  wanted  PPI. She submitted an application specifically 
for the policy and had it back-dated to 1998.  So I think  that Halifax made  Mrs M aware she 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that she chose to take it.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs M, so it had to check it was right for her. And based  on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example,  Mrs M was 
eligible for the PPI and doesnt seem to have been  affected by any of its key exclusions or 
limitations. She didnt  have any alternative protection in place aside from the very limited  
statutory benefits,  which potentially left her at serious risk without PPI.
Mrs M may have had savings, but she couldnt remember how much these were so its not 
clear if they were relevant. And the PPI meant she could protect her savings and use them  
for other things. I also understand there  may have been other people willing to help Mrs M 
with her payments.  But there was always the chance theyd be unable  to help when needed. 
And the mortgage  was Mrs Ms sole responsibility,  so I dont think it wouldve been suitable  
for Halifax to recommend  she rely on other people to pay it. Ultimately,  its worth bearing in 
mind that if Mrs M fell behind  on her mortgage  payments  she couldve lost her home.  So it 
looks like the PPI couldve really  been  useful for Mrs M in protecting her home and giving 
some peace  of mind   as it was when she successfully claimed  on it.
The cost of the policy was set out clearly in the mortgage quotation. So I think Mrs M 
wouldve understood how much she would need  to pay for it if she chose it.
Ref: DRN00154522Lastly, its possible that Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy wouldnt cover.  But 
as I said above,  Mrs M doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of those things. 
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 August 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0015452