K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the way Zurich Insurance PLC has handled  a claim under a property 
insurance policy.
background
There is a detailed history  which the parties  are aware of and so Im not going to repeat  that 
all here. In summary, Mr P is unhappy with what he thinks is an unreasonable  delay in 
Zurich reaching a fair settlement.  Amongst other  matters, he thinks Zurichs actions have 
prevented the sale of the property and caused distress and convenience. He wants Zurich  to 
address worsening  cracks in the property and other points highlighted in an expert report  
from March 2018.  Mr P has also mentioned a cash settlement of £50,000.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but didnt think Zurich  had caused any 
delay. She explained that her opinion was about  the cracks and issues  with Mr Ps flat rather 
than common parts of the block of flats the property is situated in. The investigator said it 
was common ground between Mr Ps expert and Zurich that cracks in Mr Ps flat were most 
likely due to subsidence.
She gave  an overview of the chronology in which she explained the cause of subsidence 
was found to be clay shrinkage and ultimately  a tree was removed. There were  necessary 
periods involving site inspections, monitoring for movement and Zurich had to liaise  with a 
local council  about  a tree (under a tree preservation order TPO) that was implicated as 
having an impact on the property. The tree was eventually removed, and further monitoring 
was necessary. This all took time and ran from before Mr P made  his claim in 2016 and 
2017 when Zurich was ready to survey damage  in the flats (including Mr Ps) to assess  
necessary repairs. But further movement was noted,  and further repairs were required to 
drains and other flats.  But Mr P objected to Zurich  accessing his flat and wanted to obtain his 
own independent report. And he didnt think the correct offending  tree had been identified  
either which led to issues  between Mr P and the blocks managing agents. The investigator  
wasnt satisfied Zurich  was responsible  for unreasonably delaying  progress.
Regarding the claim settlement, the investigator  explained the three options Zurich had 
given Mr P;
-Allowing Zurich access to his flat to survey the damage to arrange repairs
-A cash settlement  based on the repairs required to the flat below Mr Ps as the 
damage was likely to be the same
-Or Mr P could obtain a repair estimate  and Zurich  would compare  that to the 
schedule of works to the flat below and offer a settlement based on that.
Mr P has denied  Zurich access to his flat and prefers to arrange  repairs  personally  and 
wants £50,000 from Zurich.
The investigator explained why she thought the claim should be settled  in line with the policy 
terms and Mr Ps continued objection to Zurich entering his flat meant  the claim couldnt be 
validated. She thought  Zurichs offer based  on the flat below Mr Ps was a reasonable option 
in the circumstances. And if Mr P disagrees  with that then he can allow  access  to his flat so 
Zurich can reach a more  accurate settlement.
Mr P disagreed with the investigator and felt his expert report had been  ignored. Hes 
provided a further  reply,  which  hasnt really given new information, but rather  raises  issues  
Ref: DRN00730402about service and why investigators involved in his case were,  in his view,  wrong. So, the 
matter has been  passed for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role isnt to agree or disagree with the investigators involved in this complaint. Rather,  I 
assess all the information weve  been  sent and come to a determination I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
The crux of this complaint, as indeed identified by Mr P, centres on the damage to his 
property and how that should  be repaired or settled by Zurich.  Mr Ps position  is that his 
experts report is enough to say how this should be achieved.
The contractual relationship between Mr P and Zurich is founded on the terms and 
conditions of the insurance policy.  Part of Zurichs right is, at their option, to indemnify the 
Insured by payment, reinstatement, replacement or repair in respect  of any property lost or 
damaged or part thereof.  An insurer reserving  this right is common and for good  reason  
given its an insurer who bears the cost of putting right insured damage, its reasonable that 
it controls the cost.  Where an insurer acts unfairly, we may say its fair that an insured should 
be permitted to arrange their own repairs or receive  a cash settlement at market value rather  
than the discounted rate insurers may obtain from their preferred providers.
I can confirm for the avoidance of any doubt  that Ive read the entirety of the information 
weve been provided. From Mr Ps expert  report, its apparent the internal area of his flat was 
inspected and, along with another flat, showed  a generally consistent  pattern of cracking 
and movement, although there  were some slight differences of severity  and emphasis  
between the two. And there are some descriptions  of the cracking  in Mr Ps flat. However, 
most of the report is about the block itself and surrounding topography with limited 
comments about other flats. The report doesnt really do anymore for Mr P than confirm 
there is some damage in his flat. It isnt enough  to enable Zurich  to accurately estimate the 
real extent of subsidence related damage  and what is required to put things right. 
Zurich has offered three sensible  and reasonable options, as detailed  in the background 
section, to help move matters on. Its for Mr P to decide which option of the three he wishes  
to pursue, if any. Not allowing Zurich access to his property necessarily impacts the 
accuracy of any offer Zurich can reasonably make. Im satisfied Zurich has acted within  the 
policy terms and fairly  in the circumstances. 
Its noteworthy that a certificate of structural adequacy was issued in November  2018,  which  
gives detail of the main  issues  together with work  carried out and how each flat in the block 
was dealt with. The expert report Mr P has placed emphasis on was based on an inspection  
in December 2017 almost one year before the certificate was issued. In terms of the 
relevance of the expert report and whats required to repair Mr Ps flat, it is of limited  help 
because it doesnt  convey full details of what repairs are needed.  And as the block  has a 
certificate of adequacy that post-dates the experts  report, I find it of little relevance  to any 
issue with the block. So, while  Mr P thinks the report supports a lack of structural integrity in 
the building, I disagree thats a relevant matter now given the certificate thats been issued.
Ref: DRN00730403my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0073040