K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that Paragon Bank  Plc didnt tell him he could have a new mortgage product 
when his existing  one came to an end.
Background
Mr H had a buy to let mortgage  with Paragon  on a fixed rate until 31 December 2016. Just 
before the fixed rate ended, Paragon wrote  to Mr H to remind  him.  
In March 2019, Mr H approached his mortgage  broker to find him a better deal. The broker 
noted that Paragon were  offering a lower rate fixed for two years, so he contacted  them to 
see if Mr H was eligible for this. Paragon said this rate was available  to Mr H and agreed to 
transfer his mortgage to the new fixed rate from 1 April 2019. 
Mr H complained to Paragon. He felt by not telling him there was a lower rate available  they 
had treated him unfairly  and cost him an extra £250  per month in mortgage repayments.  
Paragon didnt uphold  the complaint. They said Mr Hs mortgage  offer had told him when his 
existing fixed rate was due to expire  and hed also been notified when the rate had actually 
changed. They said new rates were available  on their website  and via intermediaries (e.g. 
brokers) but they didnt  have to actively promote these to existing customers. And the onus 
was on Mr H to decide  whether  his existing rate was suitable  or to shop around. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  Mr Hs mortgage 
offer and annual mortgage statements were clear about when his fixed rate was due to 
expire. She also said that Paragon didnt have to tell Mr H he could have a new rate, and 
details of their other products were  publicly available on their website. 
Mr H didnt agree. He felt by not telling him about the other  rates available, Paragon  were 
treating existing customers less favourably than new ones. So he asked for an ombudsman 
to look into his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for the same  reasons  as the investigator.
Ive looked at Mr Hs original mortgage offer. It shows the product he accepted was a two 
year fixed  rate until 31 December 2016  which would then revert to a variable rate. And it 
wrote to him when the rate ended. So Im satisfied Mr H was made aware  when his fixed  
rate ended. 
I recognise Mr Hs frustration that Paragon didnt say on their letters to him that there were  
alternative rates available,  or contact him in another way to make him aware  of this. But 
lenders dont have  to proactively market  new rates  to existing customers. Paragon told us 
that all their rates are advertised  on their website so they are clear  for both new and existing 
customers, and theyve also provided  a copy of the products available  when Mr Hs 
mortgage rate expired.  I think  this is fair. I dont agree with Mr H that by not putting this 
information into other correspondence means  it was deliberately withheld. Its ultimately for 
Ref: DRN01694332the customer to decide  if and when  they want a new mortgage product and proactively 
investigate this themselves.
I recognise this has been a frustrating time for Mr H, and Id like to reassure him that Ive 
carefully read all the information hes provided.  I understand  why Mr H feels strongly  about  
what happened and I realise this wont be the outcome he was hoping for, but I think  
Paragon have acted  fairly and reasonably towards  him. So I wont  be asking them to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0169433