K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the way that Lloyds Bank Plc has dealt with the power of attorney that 
he has for his fathers accounts.
background
Mr Gs father has two bank accounts  with Lloyds  an account  in his sole name and an 
account that he holds jointly with his wife (who is also Mr Gs mother). He granted an 
enduring power  of attorney jointly  and severally to his wife and to Mr G in September 1994. 
Hes since become seriously ill and the power of attorney has been activated.
Mr G complained to Lloyds In July 2018  that his access to the joint account had been 
stopped and that he couldnt access his fathers  sole account using phone  or internet 
banking which was inconvenient for him because he lives overseas. Lloyds said that it was 
unable to agree that it had made a banking error. Mr G wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that Mr Gs 
mother had issued an instruction in June  2018  that Mr G could only access  his fathers sole 
account and that Lloyds  hadnt acted incorrectly when it said that it was unable to give Mr G 
access to phone or internet banking for the sole account. And he said that Mr Gs mother 
had to consent to the complaint about the joint account being  considered  any further.
Mr G has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that Lloyds has acted unlawfully and his mother isnt going  to agree to consent  to his 
complaint when shes the one who instigated the revocation of his access.  Hes also 
complained to the Office of the Public Guardian.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The joint account  is in the name of Mr Gs father  and mother.  Mr Gs father granted Mr G 
and his mother an enduring power  of attorney, jointly and severally, over that account (and 
his sole account) in September 1994. The power  of attorney has been  activated. But in 
June 2018, Mr Gs mother  in whose name the account is jointly  held  gave an instruction 
to Lloyds to revoke  Mr Gs access to the joint account. Lloyds had been instructed to do so 
by the joint account holder. I consider that it acted  fairly and reasonably  when it stopped 
Mr Gs access  to that account and Im not persuaded that it acted  unlawfully.  
Mr Gs access  to phone and internet banking for his fathers sole account, as his fathers 
attorney, has also been stopped. Lloyds says that thats because its systems dont allow him 
to have phone and internet banking to the sole account without also having  phone and 
internet banking for the joint account. And as its been  instructed  to revoke his access  to the 
joint account it cant allow him to have phone  and internet banking on either  account.
I can understand the frustration that this causes to Mr G because he lives overseas and isnt 
able to visit a branch  and the difficulties  that he experiences with dealing  with the account by 
letter. But Im not persuaded  that theres enough evidence to show that Lloyds has acted 
incorrectly. 
Ref: DRN09582372We offer an informal dispute resolution service and try to resolve complaints by customers 
about financial businesses by looking at what we consider  to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. But this appears to be a family dispute which  would be best resolved by the 
family. 
Mr G has also complained  to the Office  of the Public  Guardian and I understand that its 
investigating his complaint. But I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Lloyds to allow Mr G to access  his mother  and fathers  joint 
account or to allow him to access his fathers  sole account by phone or internet banking   or 
to take any other action  in response to his complaint.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0958237