K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS), trading as Seat Financial Services, 
has not been of satisfactory quality.
 
background
Mr M took receipt of a used car in October  2018. He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. At the point of supply the car was about  42 months old and 
had completed about  33,000 miles.
Mr M has had problems  with the car. The following problems  have  been  verified  through job 
cards provided by the dealership:
date issue action
Early November 
2018sat Nav/media centre not 
connecting to phone  
consistentlyunclear
Mid December 2018 bonnet popping up; seat 
handle has come off; 
loudspeaker has failed; 
number plate bulbs  not 
working.bonnet realigned; handle  
replaced; loudspeaker 
replaced and number plate 
bulbs replaced.
Mid May 2019 car pulling to left wheels realigned. Dealership 
suggest this may be due to 
the car hitting a pot hole
Mid June  2019 seat squeaking and wobbly; 
tyres worn; seat ripped;  rattle 
from heating.dealership say squeak is 
from leather rubbing  against 
plastic seat frame  and is not 
a problem. They cant find a 
fault with the seat wobbling 
and say the rip is wear and 
tear. They dont find a fault 
with the heater.
June 2019 Water pump  replaced
Mr M also reported problems with the vehicle idling noisily and a problem with the gears. But 
the business werent able to replicate the idling  problem  and Ive not seen further evidence  
of gear problems.
Mr M complained to VWFS  but they didnt uphold his complaint. They said the issues he 
complained of were  to be expected in a car of this age and mileage and should be 
considered normal  wear and tear. They were satisfied they had provided  a vehicle that was 
of satisfactory quality.
So Mr M referred his complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided his opinion. He 
didnt think a car of this age and mileage should  have experienced so many faults. He noted  
that the problems with connectivity with the satellite navigation didnt appear to have been 
resolved and he thought VWFS had had the opportunity to repair it and had failed. So he 
suggested they should now allow Mr M to reject his car; refund his deposit; pay him £150 
Ref: DRN03143822compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  hed experienced and refund the £114 hed 
spent on a diagnostic.
VWFS didnt  agree with the adjudicators suggestion. They said that there was, in the main,  
no evidence the faults existed and they were not persuaded that there  had been  evidence a 
fault with the satellite  navigation persisted. So they asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint VWFS so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it. 
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr M. The car here 
was only 42 months old and had only completed around 33,000 miles. So I would not expect 
much wear  and tear.
The relevant  legislation  also says that I should take into account whether  a car has proven to 
be suitably durable  when I consider whether its been of satisfactory quality.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.  
But VWFS responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst  they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Im persuaded here that there is sufficient evidence  that theres been a fault with the 
connectivity on the satellite navigation system  from the point of supply, when VWFS are 
Ref: DRN03143823responsible for the quality of the car. I think a reasonable person would expect  the 
entertainment system (which I think this failure refers to rather  than simply the satellite 
navigation) to operate effectively. Im persuaded by the evidence  Ive seen that this wasnt  
the case in November only a few weeks after the car was collected by Mr M. I think, given 
the relatively short time it had been  in his possession,  that this fault was most likely to have 
been present,  or developing when the car was supplied. 
The relevant  legislation  allows VWFS one opportunity to repair a fault that is present at the 
point of supply.  I think  theres sufficient  evidence here that VWFSs repair  attempt has failed. 
I say that because the diagnostic Mr M had completed at another dealership in February 
2019 also identified  the problem and said they couldnt get music to play without jumping 
even when several devices were  tried.  So, in those circumstances, Mr M should  now be 
allowed to reject his car and terminate his finance  agreement with VWFS.
And, even  if Im wrong  about  that, I dont think this car has proven to be suitably durable  for 
its age and mileage.  Theres  evidence that a speaker, handle; satellite 
navigation/entertainment centre,  bonnet and number  plate lights, have all required attention 
within the first couple of months. I dont think a reasonable person would expect that level of 
failure on a car of this age and mileage  and I think thats a further  reason to suggest the car 
has not been of satisfactory quality.
So I think VWFS should allow Mr M to reject his car and terminate his agreement  with them. 
Theyll need to refund his deposit  with interest as Mr M has been deprived  of that money  
whilst hes been funding  a car thats  been of unsatisfactory quality. 
Hes also had to take the car back to the dealership  on several occasions and hes had to 
progress his complaint  to this service when it could  have been resolved earlier. So I think 
VWFS should compensate him for the inconvenience hes experienced. In the 
circumstances, I think  £150  would be sufficient. 
Mr M also commissioned a diagnostic to demonstrate some of the faults he was complaining  
of. I think  that was a cost that he would not have had to pay had the complaint been resolved 
when it should  have been. So I think it would now be fair for VWFS  to refund the £114 that 
diagnostic cost him.
Ref: DRN03143824my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
end the finance agreement with nothing more to pay and collect the car from Mr M at 
no cost to him;
refund  Mr Ms deposit and add 8% simple  interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this 
issue;
refund  £114  for the diagnostic report;
pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  hes experienced;
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0314382