K820x#14complaint
Miss L says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy  on a credit card.
background
Miss L bought the policy in 1998,  at the same  time as applying for a credit card through  a 
postal application.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think BoS made it clear  that Miss L didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out. Ive seen a copy of Miss Ls application from 1998 and she had to actively sign to select  
and have PPI  although given how much time has passed I can understand why she cant 
remember this.
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Miss L so it didnt have  to check  if it was right for her. I say 
this because Miss L applied for the credit  card and PPI through a postal application and 
there is no evidence  that suggests she spoke to anyone from BoS.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Miss L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been. But Im satisfied that Miss L chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Miss L says she received  good benefits  from her employer and didnt need the PPI. But the 
PPI would have  paid out at the same  time as Miss L was receiving any sick pay and for 
longer. In the event of a successful claim the PPI would  have covered 10% of the 
outstanding balance for up to 12 months per claim if Miss L was off work because  of an 
accident or sickness or if she became unemployed. The policy also included  life cover. So I 
think it provided a useful benefit  and I dont think better information about  the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover.
All things  considered, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means BoS doesnt  have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss L.
Ref: DRN00978772But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss L because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Miss L about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Miss L, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss L has said - including what she has said about the level of 
sick pay she received from her employer. But, for the reasons above, these points dont 
change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss L.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Miss L any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss L to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0097877