K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC debited his account with a series of card 
payments totalling  £2,800 which he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.  £2,050  was 
refunded through the chargeback process, so the amount in dispute is now £750.  
background
Between 29-30 September 2018, seventeen transactions were  made from Mr Fs account to  
an online  gambling website - totalling £2,800. In January 2019 Barclays refunded  the 
transactions through the chargeback  process. The gambling website challenged £750 of the 
transactions and gave  Barclays evidence that they felt showed Mr F had authorised  the 
transactions. 
At the time the transactions  took place Mr F said he was on holiday.  He told us he doesnt  
gamble online,  though he does use the physical gambling shops owned by the same 
company. Mr F said he had his card with him and he hadnt shared his details with anyone 
else. He lives with his partner who was on holiday with him at the time of the disputed 
transactions. 
Barclays initially refunded  the £2,800 but later held Mr F liable for the £750  as they believe 
Mr F authorised the transactions. The gambling website provided evidence  which  showed 
the account was opened  online. Mr Fs details were  used to open  the account  online 
including his name, address, date of birth, email  address, mobile number  and bank account 
details. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
Generally, Barclays can hold Mr F liable for the disputed transactions  if the evidence 
suggests that its more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.  Having 
reviewed the electronic  evidence Im satisfied that Mr Bs genuine card details were  used to 
make the disputed transactions. But according  to the relevant regulations,  this alone is 
insufficient to enable Barclays to hold him liable. So I need  to consider whether I think the 
evidence shows it is more  likely than not that he consented to the payments being  made.  
Having reviewed the evidence, I think its reasonable for Tesco  to conclude  that Mr B 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
The disputed transactions were made  using Mr Fs genuine card details, but Mr F 
said he had the card in his possession whilst  he was on holiday abroad. Whilst I 
accept its possible, Im not persuaded its the most  likely explanation here that an 
unknown third party took Mr Fs card, made the transactions, and then returned it to 
him without him noticing.
I say this because  it also seems unusual that an unknown third party would return  the 
card after taking  his details, then gamble using the card details when any winnings 
would have be returned to the card. So either the third party  would have to risk taking 
the card again,  presumably  when Mr F returned to the UK, and somehow find out the 
Ref: DRN05744952PIN to withdraw the winnings, or was happy to not get any benefit from their 
fraudulent activity. This seems unlikely. And suggests to me that the only person who 
could benefit from any returns on the gambling  was  Mr F. 
Further, the details  used to set up the account  including the email  address and 
mobile number matches those belonging to Mr F. I find it unlikely that an unknown 
third party  would  have  been able to access all of these details. It would also be 
unusual for an unknown third party to use all of Mr Fs correct  details  as this would 
risk alerting Mr F to the fraudulent activity - messages would have likely been sent to 
confirm setting up the account or transactions taking place. 
Mr F said that he doesnt gamble online, only in a gambling shop. The gambling 
website the transactions were carried out on is the same company as a gambling 
shop Mr F visits quite  often. Whilst this could be coincidental, I think  it shows that 
these transactions  wouldnt  be out of character for Mr F even if they were online 
rather than in a gambling shop  particularly as he wouldnt  have had access  to the 
gambling shop  whilst  he was abroad. 
I have considered whether someone known  to Mr F could have completed the 
transactions. Mr F told us the only person he was with on holiday was his wife and 
hes made no suggestion that she completed these transactions,  nor is there  any 
evidence to suggest she did. 
my final decision
 
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Katherine Jones
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0574495