K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that the vehicle she acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed 
by FirstRand Bank  Limited  trading as MotoNovo  Finance wasnt of satisfactory  quality. She 
wants to reject the vehicle  and end the agreement.
background
Miss C tells us that she acquired the vehicle  from a dealer Ill call G on 9 April 2018. She 
says that within a few days the warning light for the diesel particulate filter (DPF) came on. 
On returning it to G she said she was told the issue was due to her driving  style.  
Subsequently she says the DPF warning became a constant feature. And she took the 
vehicle back to G on several occasions  both for this and faults  with lights.  Miss C states 
there were two forced  regenerations  of the DPF. But these didnt fully resolve the issues.  
Miss C reports  that on 30 March 2019  the brakes and the engine failed and it had to be 
recovered to G. She says she was later informed that shed  overfilled the vehicle with oil. 
Miss C denied having over filled the vehicle.
MotoNovo told us that an independent report from a company Ill refer to as A had 
concluded that the faults were probably  not present at the point of supply. It said that G had 
subsequently repaired the vehicle at no cost to Miss C. And it felt that the agreement should 
be allowed to continue.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 July 2020. I said that I intended to 
uphold the complaint as in my opinion  the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory  quality when 
supplied. I went on to say that I thought Miss C should be able to end the agreement and 
reject the vehicle. 
Since my provisional decision was issued Miss C has replied indicating  her acceptance of it. 
MotoNovo hasnt supplied any further  information.  I thank Miss C for her response.
As no new information has been  provided,  I see no reason to change the views I expressed 
in my provisional decision.  The contents  of which are largely  repeated in the reasons for my 
final decision  which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss C experienced  problems  with this vehicle. And its unfortunate that its 
taken so long to reach a resolution of her complaint.
Miss Cs hire purchase agreement is a regulated  consumer credit agreement. MotoNovo 
supplied the vehicle so its responsible for complaints about  the quality of the vehicle.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  states that in order  to conform to contract goods must 
be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory  quality is defined as being  what  a 
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And includes aspects  of age, previous 
use and durability.
Ref: DRN07535152Ive been provided  with a substantial amount of information by the parties. Several  individual  
aspects of the evidence which are relevant  in determining the issue  of satisfactory  quality 
are in dispute. In particular, the parties  differ regarding  the number of times Miss C returned 
the vehicle to G prior to its last breakdown; the exact cause of the vehicle failure; whether 
this was the result of Miss Cs driving  style; if she overfilled the engine  with oil; and if the fuel 
injectors failed prematurely.
. 
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ill go back to when  the vehicle was first supplied in April 2018. The vehicle was around 
seven years old at the time and the mileage is recorded as approximately  53,600  miles. This 
would indicate  average or just below average previous use. Used vehicles are likely to show  
evidence of wear and tear and so cant be expected to be as reliable as a new vehicle. But 
that doesnt mean its acceptable for faults  to be in evidence within a few days of supply.
Information shows that Miss C made complaints about the DPF warning light being  
illuminated shortly after supply. Im aware  that MotoNovo  doesnt  think  I should take account 
of a phone  recording  (provided after the investigators view) that Miss C made of a 
conversation she had with G. This was seemingly made  without Gs knowledge and was 
about G allegedly withholding proof of various  dates when the vehicle had been seen by G. 
Or the statement of truth she supplied in which she set out details of various journeys to 
disprove any suggestion  that her driving style was the cause of the DPF faults.
As an informal resolution service, we dont apply the same rules relating to the admissibility  
of evidence that might apply in court proceedings. Im entitled  to consider any information 
which I feel is relevant to my decision.  I believe its more useful to consider what weight 
should be attached to any item of information.
I dont consider that the contents  of the phone  call or the statement of truth add much to the 
information which had already been supplied earlier in the complaint. But I find no reason to 
doubt the basic points which Miss C was trying to make.  These are that she regularly 
undertakes long journeys which would tend to facilitate self-regeneration if the DPF was 
functioning properly.  And that she visited Gs premises within  a few days  of supply about the 
DPF warning light.  Neither of these factors whether viewed separately or taken together is 
sufficient proof - without  more - to determine the outcome of this complaint. But they 
potentially provide some additional and relevant information. And to that limited degree I 
accept that Miss C undertook the journeys shes described and that she visited  G about the 
DPF on or around 18 April 2018.
Ref: DRN07535153Im aware that there was a forced  regeneration of the DPF towards  the end of May 2018. 
This is consistent with the earlier report of the same issue.  And again  in early October 2018. 
Both of which dates were  within six months of the date of supply. And its not disputed that 
the vehicle broke down  more seriously  on 30 March  2019.
Ive been provided  with an analysis  report dated  3 May 2019 carried out by a company Ill 
refer to as S. This indicated that diesel fuel had diluted a sample of oil taken from the 
vehicle by or on behalf of G. I accept these findings.
The vehicle was then inspected by A on 9 May 2019. As examiner also found that the 
engine oil had been diluted by diesel fuel contamination. And went  on to state:
We would  however now recommend that the engine is removed and further dismantled and 
a specialist fuel system test is undertaken to determine whether or not potentially defective  
fuel injectors may have  also contributed or induced the present conditions as clearly a 
defective fuel injector continuously  over fuelling would  also result in dilution of the engine 
and the consequential run on.
We would  conclude based on the visible evidence the condition appears to be as a result of 
dilution of the engine oil which  appears  to be due to diesel contamination. This can occur 
due to a defective fuel system although  often  occurs due to the diesel  particulate  filter not 
being able to self-regenerate, which would be the responsibility of the vehicles  operator.
On the balance of probability at this stage  we do not consider the conditions  would  have 
been developing at finance inception and have progressed and developed  thereafter  likely 
due to the type of usage the vehicle has been subjected to and the diesel particulate filter 
not being allowed to self-regenerate unless other evidence can be provided  by the hirer to 
confirm otherwise.
We could only now recommend that the engine is now removed and the fuel system  is 
specialist tested to confirm its content
Subsequently Ive seen a report dated  12 November 2019 from a company Ill refer to as B. 
This report related  to the fuel injectors and stated:
All Injectors  failed, 3 with Electrical faults and 1 injector underfueling, Replacement  set 
required.
Injectors in this condition  would  result  in Engine  running dirty and clogging intake and 
exhaust system.
Common rail injectors can deteriorate very quickly.
Ref: DRN07535154It can be seen from the above that As conclusion  was made  without having the advantage 
of knowing that the fuel injectors were faulty. Despite its conclusion A had recognised  that 
faulty fuel injectors were  a potential alternative  explanation  for the vehicles failure. And that 
this could lead to the fuel contamination which  had occurred.
Taken together with B confirming that the faulty injectors would  result  in the engine running  
dirty and clogging the intake and exhaust  system, this very much suggests  that this has 
been an ongoing problem since the vehicle was supplied to Miss C. She reported  a fault with 
the DPF very soon  after supply and that is consistent with the findings  of B. Given  the 
journeys undertaken by Miss C, the vehicle should have been capable  of self-regeneration if 
the DPF was functioning  properly when  supplied. I find it more likely than not that the DPF 
wasnt regenerating  correctly when the vehicle was supplied to Miss C. And that it gradually 
deteriorated causing the fuel injectors to fail prematurely in March  2019. In my opinion the 
vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.  And it lacked durability.
Although G reports that the vehicle has now been repaired, I note that the engine  hasnt 
been stripped  down  as recommended by A. So the level of damage which might have been 
occasioned remains an unknown. In any event the CRA requires repairs  to be carried out 
within a reasonable time and without causing the consumer significant inconvenience. It 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable  to expect Miss C to accept having the vehicle returned to her 
so long after she made her complaint.
In summary,  for the reasons stated above  Im upholding this complaint. In my opinion, the 
vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when supplied. Miss C should be allowed to end the 
agreement and reject  the vehicle.  MotoNovo is entitled to payment for fair use up to the time 
of the final breakdown.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
I now require FirstRand Bank Limited  trading as MotoNovo Finance to take the following 
action:
1.Allow Miss C to reject the vehicle and end the agreement with nothing further to pay 
from 31 March 2019. MotoNovo  is entitled  to retain payments  accruing up to this date
for fair use;
2.If required, arrange for the collection of the vehicle from its present  location at no cost 
to Miss C;
3.Refund Miss Cs cash deposit of £200;
4.Refund repayments made on the agreement for any period due after 1 April 2019;
5.Pay Miss C £200  for distress and inconvenience;
Ref: DRN075351556.Arrange for the removal of any adverse details relating  to this agreement  from 
Miss Cs credit file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to payments arising from items 3 
and 4 above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0753515