K820x#14complaint
Miss L says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss L bought the policy when she took out a personal loan in 2000. The loan included an 
amount to pay for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Miss L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ls case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ls complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss L has said it wasnt  made  clear to her that the PPI was optional. Ive seen a 
copy of Miss Ls loan and PPI application. The form has all of Miss Ls details and I 
think its likely it was completed  at the meeting. So I think  its a reasonable reflection 
of what Miss L discussed with Lloyds at the time of sale. On the form Miss L 
indicated that she wanted to buy Optional Loan  Protection (the PPI). She didnt have 
to do this if she didnt  want the PPI. So I think Lloyds made it clear that Miss L didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she cant remember this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss L, so it shouldve made sure it was right for 
her. The PPI wouldve paid Miss Ls loan repayment if Miss L couldnt work due to 
illness, or she lost her job. The payment wouldve been in addition to any employer, 
or unemployment benefits, she might have received if this happened. It couldve 
provided a payment  for up to 12 months per claim. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Miss L couldnt  afford to make the monthly payments for 
the PPI at the time of sale. And Miss L doesnt  appear to have been affected by any 
of the main things  the policy didnt cover such as pre-existing  medical  conditions.  So 
it seems to have been right for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time.   
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss L about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN01507242my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss L to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0150724