K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
In September  2018, Uncle Buck gave Mr P a loan of £400.  The loan was repayable  over four 
months with a monthly repayment of around £159.  
Mr P made one repayment.  In October  2018, he told Uncle Buck  that he couldnt  afford  the 
repayments. Uncle Buck initially refused to enter into a payment plan with Mr P, as it said 
that Mr P could afford  the repayments. It subsequently agreed a repayment plan. Mr P says 
that he made the final payment in September 2019.  
Mr P says that Uncle Buck shouldnt have given  him the loan, as he had several  other 
short-term loans at the time and owed £40,000 on credit cards. He wants  a refund of interest 
and charges, with interest.
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Ps complaint. She thought that Uncle Buck  shouldnt  
have given Mr P the loan.  The investigator said that Uncle Buck  should  have  been  aware  
that Mr P was having problems managing his money.
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with the adjudicator.  It said,  in summary:
It would  be detrimental  to Mr P to remove adverse information from his credit  file, as 
other prospective lenders wouldnt have the benefit of that information.
Its credit searches showed  one active short-term loan of £300 and no active  
judgements.
Mr P could  afford the repayments,  taking into account the £440 he paid towards his 
credit card repayments. 
Mr P said that he couldnt afford the repayments  of the loan as hed had a change in 
circumstances. 
It spoke with Mr P before granting  the loan and he said he had arranged  to repay his 
credit card debt at £440 a month for five years  and was no longer using his credit  
cards. 
When he asked for help, Mr P had credit card debts, two short-term loans and an 
overdraft. 
Its credit searches didnt reveal information  that should have led it to refuse to lend to 
Mr P.
Mr Ps earlier application was cancelled by him, not refused. 
It offered  to write  off the remaining balance of £90 at the time of its response to this 
service. 
Ref: DRN08476062Mr P didnt accept Uncle Bucks offer to write off the remaining balance, as hed already 
repaid the loan. As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint  was passed 
to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer  should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN08476063Uncle Buck  asked Mr P about his income and expenditure, which it recorded  as £2,200 and 
£1,461 respectively. It also carried out credit checks and spoke with Mr P. 
Information Uncle Buck can see from its credit  checks isnt in the same detail as Mr P can 
see from his own credit report. But the information Uncle Buck  saw here meant that 
proportionate checks are likely to have established a much fuller picture of Mr Ps financial 
position. I say that because  one of Uncle Bucks credit checks  showed that Mr P had 
defaults, a balance of over £43,000  on revolving credit and other loans apart  from his 
mortgage. I think proportionate checks here wouldve meant that Uncle  Buck took steps to 
verify the information  Mr P provided about  his financial situation.  
Uncle Buck  says that it spoke with Mr P after his initial application  and it told him that he had 
arranged to repay his credit card debt at £440 a month for five years and was no longer 
using his credit cards.  Mr P had already disclosed the repayment of £440  in the detail he 
gave about his outgoings. I dont  think that Uncle Bucks further enquires went  far enough. 
I think that if Uncle Buck had asked to see documentation about  Mr Ps current financial 
position it would have seen, as I have,  that Mr P had four outstanding short-term  loans. That 
was in addition  to the considerable  credit  card debt. Proportionate checks would have shown 
that Mr P was struggling to manage  his money. I think  it was unlikely that Mr P could afford 
to repay  further  borrowing  in a sustainable  way. So, I dont think that Uncle Buck should  
have given Mr P this loan.  
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about the loan from Mr Ps credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance LLP should 
pay Mr P compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0847606