K820x#14complaint
Miss G says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background
Miss G bought the policy in 1998  a few months after taking out a store card.  
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Gs complaint because:
I think FICL made Miss G aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and 
that she chose  to take it. 
I say this because,  although I havent  heard the phone  call during which  the PPI was 
sold, this PPI policy was sold in August 1998  after Miss G had taken  out the store 
card in May 1998.  Ive also seen a copy of Miss Gs store card application and on it, 
its been handwritten  No in the section for PPI.
This suggests that Miss G would have been aware  that PPI was optional  as she was 
able to have the store card for a few months  without PPI. Ive also noted  that Miss G 
hasnt raised any specific  points about the PPI not being presented  as optional or not 
agreeing to take it out. Her complaint is largely  about the information  she says she 
wasnt given.
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that Miss G was made aware that the PPI 
was optional and she agreed to take it out. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss G so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did still have to give Miss G good  enough information  about the PPI so that 
she could decide if she wanted  to take the PPI.
Ref: DRN01830192Its possible the information FICL gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Miss G doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. So I dont  think  better information, 
including information about the true cost and benefit wouldve stopped  her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Miss Gs comments,  including what  shes said about:
her existing means meaning she didnt need PPI. Miss G has said that she was 
entitled to sick pay through  her employer. But after 6 months her sick pay would have 
decreased to half pay. The PPI policy would have  paid for longer than Miss G 
received full sick pay;
not being able to look elsewhere for PPI. But FICL werent obliged to tell Miss G 
about other PPI policies sold by other  businesses. Miss G knew that PPI was 
optional as she declined  it on her application  form and she had a few months after 
that to look elsewhere for PPI. Even after she took out the PPI in August 1998, as 
she paid for it by a monthly premium, she had the option of cancelling it at any time 
without losing out if she no longer wanted it, her circumstances changed or she 
wanted to take out a different policy with a different business;
being in a secure job meaning she didnt need PPI. But nobody can accurately 
predict the future and having  this PPI policy would help protect her financial positon  if 
she was to experience  an unexpected  change in circumstances  such  as being  
made unemployed;
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0183019