K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Yorkshire Building  Society  trading as Chelsea Building Society (CBS) mis-
sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in 2003 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy during a meeting. The policy provided cover  for 
Mr and Mrs S for accident, sickness,  unemployment and hospitalisation  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £555 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ss 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £27.68 a month. The 
monthly benefit split was 60% for Mr S and 40% for Mrs S.  
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a bus driver. He has told us he was entitled to good  sick 
pay and had death in service cover. I think its also likely Mr S would have been entitled to 
statutory redundancy pay. Mr S has said he was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Mrs S was employed as a student  nurse. She has told us she was entitled to good sick pay, 
was covered for death in service cover and would  have  received a redundancy payment. 
Mrs S has said she was in good  health  at the time of the sale. 
CBS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2005.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ss representative  says:
CBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for CBS on handling PPI 
complaints under  DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ss 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means CBS should  have told 
Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means CBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs S and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN01471152The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen the adjudicators view 
and Mr and Mrs S have provided  their response to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs S 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN01471153The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
CBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance CBS Code of Practice  for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General CBS Code of Practice for Telephone  Sales, Direct Marketing/Direct 
Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like CBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ss case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so CBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If CBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether CBS gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN01471154-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs 
S suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation 
for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and CBS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
CBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
CBS has sent us a copy of the paperwork available from the time Mr and Mrs S applied for 
their mortgage and PPI. The mortgage  application  form had a separate section titled  protect  
your mortgage repayments which gave several options to either  accept or decline the policy. 
The option  to take the policy  has been selected and the form has been  signed by 
Mr and Mrs S. So taking  everything into account,  I think its more  likely that Mr and Mrs S 
knew the policy was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue  pressure.  
did CBS provide advice?
CBS says it didnt  provide  advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs S disagree. Looking  at what  
happened when  CBS sold Mr and Mrs S the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. I 
say this because  I havent seen enough to suggest  CBS made a tailored recommendation 
that Mr and Mrs S take PPI based  on their needs  and circumstances at the time.
This means  CBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
While I dont know what Mr and Mrs S were  told during the meeting about the PPI, the 
section of the mortgage application form that deals  with it gave them  a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
they were unable to work through accident, sickness, hospitalisation or unemployment).  
There doesnt seem to be any information about the cost or benefit  of the PPI on this form, 
but it did say full details of the policy would be sent to them shortly after they received CBSs  
offer of advance. Unfortunately a copy of the information sent to Mr and Mrs S isnt available,  
but the mortgage offer that followed their application did explain the cost of the policy  and 
the benefit it offered. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  CBS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs S agreed to take out the 
policy. 
So I dont  think CBS gave  Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
Ref: DRN01471155drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a CBS when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ss. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the CBS rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that CBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did CBSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that CBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs S. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not 
Mr and Mrs S would have still taken out the policy, had CBS done  things  properly. 
Mr and Mrs S say they would not have taken it out and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs S had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs S chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what 
Mr and Mrs S thought they were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs S suffered any loss or 
detriment. 
Ref: DRN01471156Mr and Mrs S were  given information about the cost and benefit of the policy before it 
started. But the information about  other  aspects of the policy, such imitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions whether diagnosed or not 
that Mr and Mrs S received advice, treatment or counselling for from a doctor within 
12 months of the policy start date. The policy also excluded claims as a result of 
existing conditions , chronic or recurring disease that Mr and Mrs S were  aware  of at 
the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if 
Mr and Mrs S werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs S be 
unable to do their own work,  and any similar work which their knowledge,  training 
and ability reasonably qualified them to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs S were eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs S wouldve been  caught by any of the significant exclusions 
 Mr and Mrs S didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions and were in permanent 
employment. So, I still think  they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
Mr and Mrs S have  told us that they tried to make a claim under the policy  for a medical 
condition that became  apparent after they took the PPI. As this wasnt present at the time 
they took the policy I dont think it would have affected their decision  to take it out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than 
Mr and Mrs S might  reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected  to 
be able to make a disability claim without  having  to provide some evidence  to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs S from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs S, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs S had known they could  only claim for disability if they were unable  to do their 
own work, and any similar  work which their knowledge, training and ability  reasonably 
qualified them to do, it might have played  into their thinking about what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
Ref: DRN01471157may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr and Mrs S were unable  (through 
disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
CBS may not have  told Mr and Mrs S that any claim they made would be limited to a 12 
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for. 
But 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs S would have received full sick pay for 
and their statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months 
income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs S would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should they be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time, ensure their home was not placed at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs Ss sick pay or redundancy money  for other use.
Mr S has further said that he didnt  need the PPI as he could have relied  on Mrs Ss 
employee benefits to help make the mortgage repayments. But Mr S would not have been 
entitled to receive  benefits from Mrs Ss employer if he had a reason to claim under  the 
policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr and Mrs S were made redundant, or unable to work through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs S would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account 
Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the 
position Mr and Mrs S found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN01471158Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude CBS should  pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think CBS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
CBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why CBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  CBS gave Mr and Mrs S, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2003  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find CBS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs S and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that CBS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN01471159Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0147115