K820x#14complaint
A, a claims management company, has complained on behalf of Mr A and Mr S that a claim 
under Mr As home  insurance policy for water damage has been unfairly declined by esure 
Insurance Limited. Its also complained  about  the way esures  loss adjuster handled the 
claim.
background
Mr A made a claim to esure after he discovered a water leak behind his kitchen units.  He said 
a washer on a pipe had perished. He thought the leak had soaked the floorboar ds under the units  
and travelled under the vinyl flooring causing damage across the kitchen and into the 
adjacent walls.
esure appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. The loss adjuster thought there was 
evidence of long term water damage. esure said that the damage would have been evident  
and had happened gradually.  It said gradually occurring damage wasnt  covered by Mr As 
policy. So it declined the claim.
A brought  Mr A and Mr Ss complaint to this service. Our investigator  didnt uphold it. She 
thought the pipe had been leaking for some time and that Mr A should have noticed the 
damage sooner.
As A didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy  covers  him for water leaks but theres  an exclusion for damage thats been 
caused gradually. So the first issue for me to decide is whether the damage happened 
gradually or not. If I think  the damage  happened suddenly, then I wouldnt think it fair for 
esure to rely on this exclusion.
Some damage by its very nature happens gradually.  For example, rot isnt something that 
occurs suddenly. In this case esures  loss adjuster reported that the floorboards in the 
kitchen were saturated and warped with one of the middle floorboards sticking up by several  
inches. He also noted that the back of the sink unit had rotted and collapsed.  Lastly he said 
the plinths at the front and the doors to the sink unit were warped. This sounds to me like 
damage thats happened over a period of time rather than suddenly. In my view its 
consistent with damage  thats happened because of a slow leak from a defective washer 
thats been going on for some time.
That means on the strict application of the policy terms  esure  would be entitled to decline  
this claim.  But I wouldnt  automatically say that its fair for an insurer to rely on such an 
exclusion. I also look at whether  the consumer should have been aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware) of the damage happening gradually.
In this case esures loss adjuster said it was clearly visible that the plinths and doors to the 
sink unit were warped.  He said the end panels to units on the other side of the kitchen  were  
noticeably saturated.  Some  kitchen tiles had become loose  and two white appliances had 
started to rust. Ive looked at the loss adjusters photos and they support his description. All 
Ref: DRN05838362of this suggests to me that Mr A should  have  known at an earlier stage  that the damage was 
happening and if hed taken action at that point, the damage would probably have been less. 
In the light of this, I dont  think  esure  treated him unreasonably in declining  his claim.
I understand that Mr A was also unhappy with the loss adjusters behaviour  on the site visit 
when he declined the claim.  Consumers  are often disappointed when they hear from a loss 
adjuster that their claim  is going  to be declined. The loss adjusters account of the visit is 
materially different in respect  of this. I havent  seen any evidence that the loss adjuster acted 
improperly in respect of this.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 May 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0583836