K821x#15complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about three instalment loans he took with Provident  Personal Credit 
Limited  trading as Satsuma. Mr Ps complaint  has been brought  by his mother   Mrs B.  
background 
Satsuma provided Mr P with three instalment loans between September 2016 and 
December 2017.  Our adjudicator thought Satsuma hadnt done anything wrong when 
providing Mr P with the first loan. But they thought  that Satsuma shouldnt  have provided 
loans 2 and 3 to Mr P. So, they partially  upheld Mr Ps complaint.
Satsuma accepted our adjudicators view. But Mrs B disagreed on Mr Ps behalf. Mrs B has 
explained that she emailed and rang Satsuma to explain about Mr Ps financial situation and 
offered to pay off loan 1 in a payment plan in February 2017   before loans 2 and 3 were 
taken out. She is unhappy that Satsuma  then lent to Mr P a further  two times after this. She 
has said that the offer to refund the interest and charges isnt good  enough  to resolve  the 
complaint. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could consider several  
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN04714612I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint about  loan 1. Mr P hasnt responded directly  
to us about the adjudicators opinion, so it appears  this loan is no longer in dispute. So, I 
wont make  any further findings  on this loan. 
Satsuma agreed with our adjudicators findings  that loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have been  lent. 
Looking at what the adjudicator said, I agree with their rationale for why these loans  werent 
suitable for Mr P. So, all thats  left for me to decide on is what  Satsuma needs to do to put 
things right. 
Before reaching me, Mr Ps complaint was looked at again by another one of our 
adjudicators. They  asked both Satsuma and Mrs B to provide notes and emails from around 
the time Mrs B contacted  Satsuma about  Mr Ps borrowing  on loan 1. Satsuma has provided 
its notes and I can see that Mr P informed  Satsuma that Mrs B would be communicating with 
it going forward but there doesnt seem to be any information in Satsumas records about  the 
details of Mr Ps financial situation.  
Weve not had a response from Mrs B or Mr P about  the emails  Mrs B says she sent 
Satsuma in February 2017 about  the reasons  why Mr P was struggling financially. So, 
without any further  information, and having  carefully  thought about everything,  Im satisfied 
that what Satsuma  has already  agreed to do (in terms of putting  things right for loans 2 and 
3) is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ps case.   
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I think what Provident Personal Credit  Limited  has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr P is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of the 
complaint and I dont  ask it to do any more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Ref: DRN04714613Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0471461