K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with his home insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited because it 
recorded four claims against his policy without warning him that even unsuccessful claims 
will impact  his cover going forwards.
background
During the policy year 2017  2018, Mr M made  four calls to Admiral  regarding damage at 
his property. He was asked during each call if he wanted to progress with making a claim  
and Mr M agreed.  Two of the claims didnt progress beyond the initial  phone  call, a third was 
declined after Admiral  had incurred some costs and a fourth was settled successfully.
When Mr Ms renewal  came in 2018 he noted  his premium had increased by around £300. 
He noted that four claims had been recorded.  He felt this was unfair,  that only one should be 
detailed. Mr M felt that Admiral should  have warned him if it was going to log unsuccessful  
claims against his record.  He said his premium  was now much greater and he couldnt  get 
quotes from other insurers. Mr M said his understanding  of a claim was where an insurer  
makes a pay out to the policyholder. 
Admiral considered the complaint and told Mr M that it had clearly  told him that claims were 
being logged.  Therefore,  it didnt think it had done  anything wrong.  Mr M complained  to us.
Our investigator initially upheld Mr Ms complaint. This was because  he had no reason to 
doubt what Mr M had said and Admiral hadnt provided the call recordings to show any 
different. However, Admiral did later provide the recordings and our investigator reviewed 
them. He noted  that Mr M had been  aware that claims were being  logged. And he was also 
satisfied, having  reviewed pricing  detail previously supplied to us by Admiral, that it had 
acted fairly  and reasonably in setting the renewal premium.
Mr M was unhappy. He didnt think it was right that we could review this now when Admiral  
hadnt provided the evidence initially. And he maintained his view that Admiral  hadnt made 
him sufficiently aware that rejected claims would count against  him. Mr M also pointed out 
that during one call he had said to Admiral that he was looking to see if he could  claim,  so he 
didnt accept he had claimed. He also feels its relevant  that the excess  is said to be the first 
amount of any claim a policyholder has to pay. Therefore as he has only paid one excess  he 
has only had one claim. In his view the other  instances of damage should be recorded as 
incidents only, not claims. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The price  at renewal can change from the previous year.  Many  things may impact this and 
I wouldnt expect an insurer to warn  policyholders  about those  things. That is at least partly 
because there are things  that an insurer needs  to be told about regardless of whether or not 
they may impact a policyholders  future  premiums or options  for cover.
Admiral has satisfied me here that Mr M has been  treated as would any other policyholder 
with four instances  of damage on his record. And I say instances because  Admiral, when it 
comes to the pricing of cover at least, hasnt treated them  all as claims. It has incurred costs 
in respect of two of the instances and they have  been viewed as claims. The other two have 
Ref: DRN01370562been treated as incidents. Admiral, as does  many insurers, takes both previous claims and 
incidents into account when deciding what to charge  for cover. Industry data seems to 
suggest that policyholders  who report more incidents of damage are more  likely to make 
claims. Therefore,  incidents  are a part of the risk profile a policyholder presents in just the 
same way claims are.
Mr M may also be interested to note that most insurers during their policy application 
processes ask about incidents  of damage that have occurred as well as claims. Further, 
whilst some insurers may not ask about  incidents they will often still want  to know about all 
claims made, whether  successful or not. The important thing for Mr M to do is answer 
whatever question he is asked honestly. 
In my view Mr M did make four claims.  I accept  that in one call he says he is making  an 
enquiry  but the call continued beyond that point. Mr M was asked if he wanted to proceed 
with making a claim and he said yes. The fact that in three  cases  no excess was paid by 
Mr M and no settlement was made by Admiral  is immaterial. I appreciate that Mr M had an 
understanding of what  a claim  is, but he was wrong in that respect.  And I couldnt  
reasonably have expected Admiral to know he was labouring under that misunderstanding. 
In any event, Mr M started  each call by telling  the Admiral call handler  that there had been 
damage caused to his home. Therefore, even if he hadnt progressed the calls as he did, 
Admiral would still have  logged incidents  because it had been made aware  that damage 
had occurred. And those  incidents would still likely have  had an impact on the premium and 
potentially Mr Ms options  for obtaining other  cover. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Admiral did anything wrong here or that it could reasonably 
have been expected to do anything else/more.
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr M to have  his complaint not upheld after it was initially  
upheld. Im sorry for any upset caused but we couldnt ignore  Admirals evidence just 
because it came to us later than wed have liked. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Admiral  Insurance 
Company Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0137056