K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDFC)  incorrectly  charged 
interest on her account and sold her debt to a debt collection agency which I will call L. 
background
Miss G had a catalogue account with SDFC which was opened in 2014 and she has used to 
make a significant number of purchases. SDFC provides interest  free credit on purchases if 
payments are made  by a specified date. This can either be on a buy now pay later (BNPL) 
basis or on a flexible basis under which payment can be spread over three months. If those 
payments arent made on time interest is charged at an APR of 49.9%.
When paying for a BNPL order,  the minimum requested payment on the statement is also 
required. If those  payments  arent  made on time then the deferred interest is charged. It says 
the payment made in June 2016 wasnt sufficient to cover the minimum sum due and so 
interest was charged. It says she missed  three  minimum  payments as the amounts due 
increased due to the imposition of the deferred  interest.
SDFC says Miss G stopped making  payments with the last one being made in 
December 2017  and it defaulted her account  in February  2018.  Later  it sold the debt to L.
Miss Gs complaint was rejected by SDFC and she brought  the matter  to this service.  It was 
considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.  He was satisfied 
that SDFCs records were accurate and that Miss G had missed some  payments which  led 
to the interest  charges.  He set out the relevant transactions  in some detail to show  how the 
arrears had arisen. 
Miss G didnt  agree and provided her analysis of the sums due and her payments. She also 
said SDFC had asked  for sums to be paid more than once and had charged  for items which  
she hadnt ordered.
The adjudicator reviewed this information  and shared it with SDFC for its comments. He 
concluded that Miss G had failed to pay the full sums due for several items bought on BNPL  
terms and so deferred interest had been  chargeable.  It was noted that in May 2017  Miss G 
had cleared her account arrears, but her flexible account balance  was £781.07 and her 
BNPL balance was £1,049.92. She also missed her minimum payments in January and 
March 2017, which made  her standard account balance of £274.70  and £427  respectively 
ineligible for interest  free payments.
Miss G didnt  agree and said the information provided by SDFC was wrong. She also said 
DDFC paid her £20 to apologise so that showed  it was in the wrong. She agreed  she had 
made all the purchases, but the statements she got were set out differently. She maintained 
she hadnt missed any payments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Miss G, but I have  to say that I find myself in agreement  with our 
adjudicator. She had two types  of credit being  operated on her account and given the 
Ref: DRN02945302number of items she bought it was essential to keep on top of the sums payable. I note she 
kept a diary to remind her when payments were due.
However, while the statements set out how much is due for each purchase and by when, the 
system is not straightforward and once a customer falls into arrears I can see that the 
addition of deferred interest  will push up the minimum sums due and can lead to further 
underpayments.
I wont go over the detail of the transactions which caused the account to fall into arrears as 
that has been set out by the adjudicator,  but I am satisfied that SDSFC imposed interest and 
charges in line with the  terms and conditions of the agreement signed by Miss G. I note she 
has recently raised other matters concerning SDFC but I havent  considered  those as they 
first have to be referred to the business  for it to comment if Miss G wishes to pursue them 
further. 
I have noted the comments  of other  disgruntled customers  submitted by Miss G, but that 
doesnt mean I can uphold her complaint.  I should  make it clear that the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is to resolve  individual complaints and to award redress  
where appropriate. I do not perform the role of the industry regulator and I do not have the 
power to make rules  for financial businesses or to punish them.
As Miss G had fallen  into arrears SDFC was entitled  to default the account which  it did in 
February 2018 and it was also open to it to sell the debt to L. I would suggest Miss G talks to 
L about seeking to address the money she owes. In turn I would expect  it to treat her 
sympathetically and positively in seeking  to help her sort out the arrears.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept or reject  my decision 
before 5 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0294530