K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about three payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out between  
1998 and 1999. Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Mr and Mrs M mentioned a policy they believe was sold alongside a secured loan in 1994. 
Neither they nor Nationwide has any information  or evidence to show  a PPI policy  was sold 
at that time. Because of this, I havent  been able to assess  a potential mis-sale  alongside  
this loan. 
I have assessed  three  policies  sold between  1998 and 1999. Ive decided  the policies 
werent mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say they have no recollection  of discussing PPI when they took out their 
secured loans. Nationwide has provided a number of documents from each sale that are all 
similar to each other in how the information  was set out.
Mr and Mrs M applied for secured loans in March 1998 (loan  1), February 1999 (loan 2) and 
December 1999  (loan 3). On each occasion  they completed an application form. All three of 
these had a separate section for PPI with a yes and no option.  Each  option  required a tick 
and a signature from the consumer to confirm their choice. On loan 1 and loan 3, Mr M 
ticked and signed  yes to agree to take out the PPI. 
On loan 2, Mr M ticked and signed  both the yes and no options for PPI. Nationwide has 
provided a copy of their internal notes from the sale of the secured loan. This shows that 
Nationwide was unsure whether or not Mr M wanted  the PPI. The notes then confirm the PPI 
was sold to Mr and Mrs M. Its more likely this note was completed  as a result  of a later 
conversation between Mr and Mrs M and Nationwide. 
Mr and Mrs M were  sent a credit  agreement after each  sale confirming the details of the 
loan. On each  agreement it said: Add:  Monthly  Prem for optional credit  insurance followed 
by the monthly  cost of the PPI. 
I think it was clear in the application forms that Mr and Mrs M could decline the policies if 
they didnt want  them. And the credit agreements set out that the policies were  an optional  
addition to their loans. So looking at everything available to me, I think Nationwide made it 
clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take out PPI and that they chose to take it out on 
each occasion.   
Nationwide didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for Mr M. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs M got the information they needed to 
decide if it was right for them.  
Ref: DRN03033062Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted  this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  
Mr M says he wouldve received six months at full pay followed by six months at half pay if 
he was sick. But the policy  couldve covered  him for up to twelve months  if he was made 
redundant or up to twenty-four months  if he was too ill to work or had an accident.  It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would 
have put Mr and Mrs M off taking out the cover. 
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI on loan 3 to Mr and Mrs M 
because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Nationwide didnt 
tell them,  that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any commission  and profit  share it got on loan 
3 that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  Nationwide  should also pay back  to Mr and 
Mrs M any extra interest they paid because  of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs M the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide  should  
also pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission 
and profit share it got on loan 3 that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03033063
Ref: DRN0303306