K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK plc wont refund a series of card payments he neither 
made nor authorised.   
background
The background here does not appear to be in dispute. Mr J says his grandson said he 
needed some financial  help. Mr J provided him with his debit card details so he could make 
one payment. It seems  however that Mr Js grandson then loaded  the card details onto his 
mobile phone and was able to make contactless mobile phone payments for nearly  a month.  
Mr J noticed the payments when he logged onto his account. He believes he contacted 
Barclays the same day, but its own records indicate  he didnt do so until a few days  later. 
Nevertheless, the transactions continued for some  days longer. 
When Mr J explained what had happened, the bank agreed to refund all the payments that 
had been made after Mr J had been in touch. But it said that he had shared sensitive 
information about his account and so it wouldnt refund the earlier payments. 
Mr J referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators looked at it. She agreed  
with the banks approach. Whilst she didnt think that Mr J had authorised  the transactions, 
he had, in breach  of the account terms, failed to keep the account details secure. She didnt 
think the bank  needed to make any further refunds. 
Mr J didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review  the 
case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive come to 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
In not accepting the investigators conclusions, Mr J made the point that Barclays  had said it 
was upholding  the complaint. He took that to mean that it agreed he should  have a full 
refund. I think what it actually meant was that it had accepted it needed to refund some  of 
them  after hed reported  that his card details had been compromised. For reporting 
purposes it had upheld  the complaint, even though in reality it had only accepted  liability  for 
some of the transactions.  
I accept the banks evidence about when Mr J reported that his card had been  compromised. 
It has refunded all payments made after that date.  
I must therefore consider the earlier  transactions.  I can understand that Mr J wanted to help 
and provided his grandson with this card details. But he was then able to use those details to 
make retail  purchases, by loading them onto his phone. 
I agree  with the investigator that, by sharing his card details, Mr J wasnt  keeping  those 
details secure. He may not have realised  it at the time, but he was, in effect, allowing 
someone else access to his account. His actions were not significantly different from giving 
his grandson the card itself. 
Ref: DRN07414132For these reasons, I agree that it wouldnt  be fair to require Barclays  to refund the payments  
made before Mr J alerted the bank to the problem.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything more to resolve  
Mr Js complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr J to accept  or reject  my decision before  30 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0741413