K820x#14complaint
Ms A has complained about  Assurant General  Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim on her 
mobile phone insurance  policy.
Reference to Assurant includes its agents.
background
Ms A has a policy as a benefit of her bank account. She lost her mobile  phone  and claimed  
on her policy.  Assurant  accepted her claim and took a £100 excess  payment. But it didn't 
have an equivalent  model in stock.  It offered Ms A alternatives which  she didn't accept. It 
also offered her £200 to buy a replacement herself.
Ms A wasn't happy with Assurants handling of her claim  and brought  her complaint to us. 
The investigator noted that Assurant  had made a mistake about the amount of the excess  
when responding to the complaint. But he didn't otherwise think Assurant had done anything 
wrong.
Ms A didn't agree so her complaint's been  passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
replacing Ms As phone
Ms As policy says:
If your mobile  phone is lost or stolen  we will replace it with a mobile  phone  of the same 
make, model and memory  size. If we cannot  do this you will be given a choice of models  
with an equivalent  specification.
Assurant didn't have  Ms As model  of phone in stock so it offered her alternatives. Those 
weren't suitable  for Ms As needs,  so it offered her £200 as a cash settlement. I think  that 
was reasonable  in the circumstances. Thats because Assurant has shown us evidence that 
Ms As model of phone was available online for less than that sum.  So I think  it was a fair 
solution to the issue.  Ms As said that she doesn't have the time to buy the phone herself. 
But I don't  think  that buying the phone online should  take her any more  time than shes 
invested in pursuing her complaint. So I don't think its unfair for Assurant to suggest Ms A 
does this. 
excess
Ms A is unhappy that Assurant took a £100 excess  from her. But Ms As policy says that for 
every accepted claim a £100 excess will be payable. And it accepted her claim and has 
offered to settle  it. And as Ive said above  I think its settlement offer is reasonable. So I think  
it was reasonable  for it to take the excess for the claim.
Ref: DRN00758402Ms As also said that her excess should be £50 and not the £100 that Assurant took.  Ive 
seen that when it responded to her complaint  Assurant incorrectly  told Ms A that her excess  
might be £50. That was a mistake on its behalf. But as it deducted the correct amount as set 
out in her policy wording  I don't think that mistake has put Ms A in a worse  position. As its 
only taken what her policy requires.
Ms A said that Assurant hadn't told her that the excess  had increased.  But Ive seen 
evidence that her bank  sent her a letter, on Assurants behalf, in February 2018 advising of 
the increase in the excess from £50 to £100. Ms As said that she didn't receive that letter. 
But Im satisfied that it was sent, so I can't hold Assurant or the bank responsible if the letter 
didn't reach her. So I don't think Assurants done  anything wrong.
Ms As indicated that the policy was mis-sold and she wants her premiums  returned to her. 
But it was her bank  that sold her the policy as a benefit of her bank account. So I don't 
intend to address that point of the complaint here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0075840