K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out with a store 
card. Financial Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL) didnt actually sell the PPI, but its 
accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep things 
simple. 
Mrs H says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
Mrs H opened a store card account in a shop in 2004. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy to help with her monthly store  card repayments if she was off work sick, or if she lost 
her job.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  she said 
that Mrs H had two medical  conditions when she took the policy  out, which  wouldnt have 
been covered  by it. And she didnt think shed  have taken the policy  if FICL had made it clear 
to her that she wouldnt be able to make a successful claim for those conditions.  FICL 
disagreed with the adjudicators view,  so the complaints been passed to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs H 
and to FICL  on 11 March  2019. I summarise my findings:
Id seen a copy of Mrs Hs application form for the store card.  It includes a section  
headed Protecting your Account.  It says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account Cover  (a form of PPI), and it continues  Please debit my Account with the 
relevant monthly premiums  until further  notice.  Theres a space to sign, with instructions 
only to sign if the applicant  required Account Cover. Mrs H signed specifically to indicate 
that she wished to take the cover, separately from where  she signed the overall form.
Taking everything into account,  I was satisfied that Mrs H would have realised that the 
PPI wasnt compulsory. And I thought she decided to take the cover,  knowing that she 
had a choice  although I could understand why she may no longer remember  this, so 
many years later.
FICL  didnt advise Mrs H to take out the policy. This meant it didnt  have to check if it was 
suitable for her. But it did need  to make  sure it gave  Mrs H enough information to enable  
her to decide for herself if she wanted  PPI, knowing what alternative means  shed have 
had of making her monthly repayments  if she was unable  to work.
I accepted that it was possible the information FICL gave Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. But I thought  she chose to take out the PPI - so it looked as 
if she wanted this type of cover, even if shed understandably forgotten  that now. Based  
on what shes told us about  her circumstances at the time, Mrs H was eligible for the 
policy.
Ref: DRN01613152Mrs H has told us that she wouldnt have been  entitled to any pay from her employer at 
the time if shed been off sick. If shed made a successful claim on the policy for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have  paid a monthly benefit  of 15% of 
what she owed  on her store card, on top of any redundancy she might  have got. And it 
would have done this each month until her credit  agreement  ended,  or she returned to 
work, or the outstanding balance  at the time of her claim had been  repaid - whichever 
was the earliest. So I thought the PPI could have provided her with a useful benefit at a 
difficult time.
I acknowledged that Mrs H has told us that friends  and family  would  have helped  her 
with her monthly store card payments if necessary.  But circumstances can change, and 
I couldnt be sure that Mrs Hs friends and family would have been in a position to help if 
the need had arisen.  And having  the PPI meant  that she wouldnt have needed  to rely on 
others. So this didnt change my view that the policy could have been useful for her.
I accepted that it was possible the information FICL gave Mrs H about  the cost of the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But I was satisfied that it would  have been  clear 
from the application form that thered  be monthly  premiums  to pay for the cover.  Id seen  
nothing to suggest that the policy was unaffordable for Mrs H. And as she was paying  for 
it monthly, she could have cancelled it without any further cost if her situation changed.
I acknowledged that Mrs H has told us she suffered from two medical conditions when 
she applied  for the policy. But shes told us that she hadnt had any time off work for 
either of those  conditions, even  though  one of them had been diagnosed many years  
earlier. I acknowledged that one of the conditions can sometimes  lead to more  serious  
conditions. But I didnt think that when she took out the PPI, shed have thought  it likely  
that she need to claim on the policy for either of the conditions. 
Mrs H could potentially have claimed successfully  if shed been off sick with any 
unrelated condition,  or if she lost her job. So taking  everything into account, I didnt think, 
on balance, that shed  have made a different decision about taking the PPI cover if shed 
been given  better information about  the exclusions relating to existing medical  
conditions. And she didnt appear  to have been  affected by any of the other main  things 
the policy didnt cover.
For the reasons  Id set out, I didnt think that better information about  the PPI would have  
put Mrs H off taking it out. So I didnt think shed  lost out as a result of anything that FICL 
may have done wrong, and based on what Id seen so far, I didnt think  the complaint 
should be upheld.
further submissions
Neither Mrs H nor FICL  has made any comments on my provisional  decision, and the time 
for doing so has now expired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case. Having  done so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings I set out in 
my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN01613153my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0161315