K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M say that Barclays Bank  UK Plc mis-sold them  an Additions Active packaged  
account in 2010.
background
Mr and Mrs M raised a complaint with Barclays on a separate  packaged account in Mr Ms 
name only and received  an offer from Barclays.  They  disagreed with the offer as they felt the 
interest had been  calculated  incorrectly and it didnt include  a refund of the Additions Active 
account fees. 
Mr and Mrs M had a fee-free joint account. In 2001,  Mr M opened a separate sole account 
and says he was told this needed to be a packaged account as he couldnt have two fee-free 
ones running alongside  each other. Because of this, Mr M opened an Additions  account in 
his name.  
Mr M then visited a Barclays  branch  in 2010  and was informed by the cashier  that he could 
have the packaged account  on his joint account  instead, so that both he and Mrs M could 
have use of the benefits. Mr M agreed  and his sole additions  account was downgraded to a 
fee-free account  at the same time as the joint account with Mrs M was upgraded to an 
Additions Active. 
Mr and Mrs M later complained that they werent aware they could  have two separate  fee-
free accounts and that they didnt have to have  a packaged account  at all. In response,  
Barclays upheld the upgrade to the Additions  account and offered a full refund, plus 8% 
simple interest. But they didnt uphold the Additions  Active account. Mr and Mrs M disagreed 
with this and brought  the complaint to our service.
Their complaint about the interest calculation was answered under a separate  complaint with 
our service  so this wont be addresses  in this decision. An adjudicator did an initial  
assessment on the case and felt that the Additions Active  wasnt  mis-sold. Mr and Mrs M 
disagreed so the complaint was moved onto the decision stage  of our process.
While it was waiting, another adjudicator looked into the complaint and spoke to 
Mr and Mrs M. After  investigating further, the adjudicator felt there  was enough  to say 
Barclays mis-sold  the Additions  Active account  and should refund Mr and Mrs M the account  
fees plus interest. 
Barclays disagreed  and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, in essence,  is that they were led to believe they couldnt have two 
fee-free accounts  running alongside each other,  so thought they had to have a packaged 
account. They say they were  told this in 2001 when  Mr M opened his sole account as an 
Additions account and they still thought this was the case  in June 2010 when Mr Ms account 
Ref: DRN07959022was changed  to a fee-free  one and their joint account was upgraded to an Additions Active. 
Barclays has said there isnt enough  to show Mr and Mrs M were  mis-advised  that they 
couldnt have  two fee-free accounts  and felt Mr and Mrs M wanted the Additions Active for 
the benefits it provided.
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was said when either the Additions account  or 
the Additions Active was sold. Where  theres  a difference of opinion as to what  happened  I 
have to consider  everything available to me to determine what  I think  is more  likely in the 
circumstances. To be clear, as the complaint about  the Additions account  has already been 
upheld by Barclays, I havent considered the sale of it in this decision. 
The first thing Ive considered is Mr Ms testimony  and how reliable I consider it to be. Mr M 
has been consistent and detailed in his testimony since  he first brought  his complaint  to 
Barclays. Barclays has provided a transcript of the call in which Mr M made his complaint. 
From this, and from his conversations with our service, I can see that his version of events 
has remained the same  throughout. So I think this adds some weight to his testimony. 
Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Ms personal  circumstances in relation to the benefits on the 
Additions Active account. At the time of the sale, the main  benefits were worldwide travel  
insurance, breakdown  cover and mobile phone  insurance. Mr and Mrs M have explained that 
they had a company car so had no need  for the breakdown cover,  and had company mobile 
phones at the time of the sale.  Theyve also said they continued to take out their own 
separate travel insurance policies.  
Barclays has pointed out that a mobile phone was registered under the phone insurance  in 
2014. But I have  to consider that the phone was registered over four years after 
Mr and Mrs M took out the packaged account. So I think its unlikely that the mobile  phone  
insurance was a factor in their decision  to take out the Additions Active account. And 
considering their personal circumstances at the time they took out the packaged account in 
relation to the benefits, I cant see why they would have chosen  to take out the Additions 
Active account had they known they had the option not to take it. 
Having carefully considered everything  available to me including  Mr and Mrs Ms testimony 
of what happened  at the time of the sale, Barclays argument that they hadnt  seen  enough to 
show they gave  incorrect advice and Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of the sale, I 
think its more likely  Barclays didnt clearly set out to Mr and Mrs M that the Additional  Active 
account was optional. And I think if they had made it clear the account was optional,  I dont 
think Mr and Mrs M would  have chosen  to take it over a fee-free account.  So, I think the 
Additional Active account was mis-sold.
putting matters right
To put matters right, Barclays  should  refund all of the Additions Active account fees that 
Mr and Mrs M paid,  and pay 8% simple interest  on those fees, less deductible tax.
If Mr and Mrs M saved  money by having a better rate for an overdraft, loan or savings 
account than they wouldve had without  this packaged account, Barclays may take the 
savings off the total amount that it pays back to them.  But if Barclays does this, it must 
explain this clearly to Mr and Mrs M, and show how it worked out the savings  so its easy  
for Mr and Mrs M to understand.
Ref: DRN07959023 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and I instruct 
Barclays Bank UK Plc to refund the Additions Active account fees as specified above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0795902