K820x#14complaint
Mr B says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a new credit 
card he got from Barclays Bank  UK PLC, in 1995.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr B 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B said he cant remember ever agreeing  to PPI and would never have done so if hed 
been given the choice.  I dont doubt this is Mr Bs genuine recollection now.  But these 
events are from around 24 years ago and its obviously possible he simply doesnt 
remember what happened. 
I say this because  Barclays  still had a copy of Mr Bs original  application form and I can see 
quite clearly that the application form did give Mr B a choice. There  was a section on it 
about Payment Protection with what I consider to be two clear  and obvious  options for him 
to choose between. 
Mr B ticked  the first option which said Yes, I want my Barclaycard account to be covered 
against unemployment, accident,  sickness and death. There  was also a no box which  was 
equally as prominent  which  Mr B didnt tick. He then went  on to sign the application form.
I can also see from his monthly  credit card statements  that there were charges for 
Payment Protection Plan on them. I think if he hadnt ever asked for the PPI he would 
have wanted to know what these charges were for.
So I think its clear he agreed to the policy, even if he doesnt remember  this now. He would 
have also been  able to see he didnt need to have the PPI if he didnt want it. 
Barclays concedes it may have advised  him during the PPI sale.  This means it needed to 
make sure the policy was suitable for him. I think it was.
Looking at the work he did, I think Mr B may have had some sickness protection with his job 
but it would  have been quite moderate. The PPI, on the other hand, would have paid off 10% 
of his outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if hed needed  to claim. This wouldve 
been in addition to any other means  he had at that time. He was also eligible for the cover  
and not caught by any of the main  exclusions  we tend to see in these types  of policy.  The 
cost of the policy was around 69p per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance on the credit 
card. In my experience  this is broadly  comparable  with other  PPI policies being sold then 
and I dont think hed have found  these  charges  unaffordable.
Ref: DRN08679002So I think this policy was suitable for him. 
Barclays needed to provide information that was clear. I can certainly see some  ways in 
which the application form could have been set out more  clearly, but it did make it clear  the 
policy came  with a cost and overall  I think he would have had enough information on which  
to make an informed decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0867900