K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about two regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies 
taken out in 1992 and 2008. Mr and Mrs C say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold 
them the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs C initially raised a complaint against YBS which  responded to say it didnt feel it 
mis-sold either policy.  An adjudicator looked into the complaint and felt the 1992 PPI policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  But he did feel the policy sold in 2008 should be refunded in full because  
Mrs C had a pre-existing medical  condition that wouldnt be covered under  the policy. 
YBS disagreed with this so the complaint was passed to me to make a decision on. I wrote a 
provisional decision in which  I explained I didnt feel either the 1992 or the 2008 policy had 
been mis-sold. My provisional decision read as follows:
Mr and Mrs C first took out their first PPI policy alongside a mortgage in 1992. The benefit 
was increased in 1994 alongside a further advance but the policy terms remained the same. 
In 2008, Mr C turned 65 and was no longer eligible  under the policy. This is because  the 
cover ceased on his 65th birthday. So YBS cancelled the cover and Mrs C applied for a new 
PPI policy  in her name only. 
Mr and Mrs C say they were made  to feel like they needed to take the PPI to get the 
mortgage. Its not possible for me to know  exactly what  they were told when they took out 
the mortgage, and they havent gone into much detail about what  happened.  YBS has been  
able to give me a number  of documents from the time of the sale.  Ive considered everything 
available to me to determine what I think is most  likely to have happened  in the 
circumstances. 
In the mortgage  application form, there  was a separate section for PPI. I can see Mr and  
Mrs C ticked the box within this section  to take advantage  of the policy.  And in my opinion it 
was clear they couldve left the section blank if they didnt want it. They then completed a 
separate PPI application form in which they selected  the monthly benefit. In addition to this, 
they received  the mortgage offer which set out the PPI as a separate product as well as the 
monthly cost. Taking all of this into account,  I think YBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs C 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out. 
The mortgage was sold by a third party, or an introducer. Because of this, YBS didnt give a 
personal recommendation for the PPI policy. So it didnt have to check if it was right for Mr 
and Mrs C. But it did have to make  sure they got the information they needed  to decide if it 
was right for them. 
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they 
were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for them  if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put them off taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN09227382In 2008, the policy was cancelled and Mrs C took out a new policy  in her name  only.  As   
Mrs C actively  sought to take out the policy again after the joint cover was cancelled,  I think 
she was aware she didnt have to take out the policy if she didnt want  it. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  YBS recommended the PPI policy  to Mrs C. So, like the 1992  
sale, it didnt have  to check if it was right for Mrs C. But it still had to give her enough 
information so she could make sure she wanted  it. 
Mrs C has mentioned that she had some  medical operations between when the first and 
second policies  were taken out. And our adjudicator  felt this may have affected her ability to 
claim on the 2008 policy if she had any pre-existing medical conditions as a result of the 
operations. YBS highlighted that the statement of fact from the 2008 sale said if Mrs C had 
a similar  policy prior to taking out this one; the cover start date will be the start date of the 
previous policy  for the purpose of a pre-existing medical condition..  Because of this, I think  
that only qualifying  medical issues Mrs C had prior to the sale in 1992 would be classed as 
pre-existing under  the policy. Mrs C has previously told us she had no pre-existing medical 
conditions in 1992, so I dont think her ability to claim wouldve been affected.   
Ive also considered that when Mrs C took out the PPI in 2008, she only had 18 months of 
cover available to her. After that time, she would be 65 years  old and therefore would no 
longer be eligible under the policy. Mrs C selected an excess period of 80 days. The policy 
couldve covered  Mrs C for up to 12 months per claim  if she was too ill to work, had an 
accident or was made redundant. So once the excess period ended  she wouldve needed to 
make a claim within three months  to receive  the full 12 month benefit available  to her. 
But the policy was paid monthly, meaning Mrs C had the option  to cancel it at any point. And 
I think she was aware  that there was a limit to her eligibility  for the policy,  considering the 
reason she took it out in her own name is Mr C was no longer  eligible due to his age. YBS 
says that it wrote to Mrs C when she was about  to turn 65 to let her know she would soon no 
longer be eligible under the policy. Taking  all of this into consideration, I think  Mrs C couldve 
benefitted from the 2008 policy and I dont think YBS needed to do more when it sold the 
PPI to Mrs C. 
Based on what Ive seen  so far, I dont think YBS mis-sold the PPI policies to Mr and Mrs C.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because:  
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr and Mrs C nor YBS responded to my provisional decision with any additional 
comments or evidence for me to consider. Because of this, I see no reason to depart from 
Ref: DRN09227383the findings set out in my provisional decision. For the reasons set out above, I dont think  
YBS mis-sold either PPI policy.  But I do think it needs to refund  any commission  and profit 
share it received  that was over 50% of the PPI premium. 
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs C any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs C the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs C 8%* simple interest on each payment and15%  on payments before April 
1993.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs C can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policies were  mis-sold  by Yorkshire Building Society. But I do think it 
should repay any commission and profit share it received that was over 50% of the PPI 
premiums.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 June 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0922738