K820x#14complaint
Ms U is unhappy with the service she received from Black Horse Limited after the car it 
provided to her under a hire purchase agreement was damaged  in an accident.
background
This complaint is brought by a representative on behalf of Ms U but for convenience Ill refer 
to Ms U throughout.  Ms U took out a hire purchase  agreement for a new car in September  
2015.The car cost £44,709. In March  2018 the car was involved in a serious accident and 
the insurance company declared  it to be a write off. The insurance company  paid Black  
Horse £26,324.80  on 6 April 2018 in settlement of the claim.
But Black Horse calculated that under the terms of the hire purchase agreement,  there was 
a shortfall of £3,895 between the amount  paid to it by the insurance company and the 
amount required  to settle the agreement. It asked Ms U to pay this.
Ms U disagreed and said 
The cost of the repairs were less than the write off value of the car so she felt it could 
have been repaired,  not written off.
Shed  asked to buy the car from the insurance  company but it refused saying Black  
Horse had placed a restriction  on it of £6,000.  Shed asked the insurance company 
not to dispose of the car but it had done  so anyway.
Under the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and other relevant regulations  Black  
Horse shouldnt have  included interest in tits calculations  after the car was written  off. 
On that basis the settlement figure was wrong.
She felt the insurance company and Black Hose were in breach of the regulations  by 
discussing the car between themselves without her consent.
As shed  paid more  than a third of the required amount for the car by the time of the 
accident, Black Horse had been wrong to repossess the car without a court order or 
her consent.
Black  Horse had wrongly  recorded  a default notice against her credit file.
She asked  for Black Horse to now close her account  with nothing further to pay and no 
penalties.
Black Horse  said the insurers had declared  the car to be a total loss. In those circumstances 
the terms and conditions of the hire purchase  agreement said the money from the insurers 
was to be paid to it as the owner  of the car. This was why it had negotiated  and made 
arrangements with the insurance company, not Ms U, but that was in line with the agreement  
so it didnt agree it had done anything wrong.
Ref: DRN02530302It said it had followed the legislation  in calculating the amount to settle.  The final figure 
reflected the fact the account was being settled  early. It also included the rebate on the 
overall interest for the early settlement. It didnt agree with Ms Us calculations or her view 
that no interest was payable after the insurance payment was made.  It said it would be 
entitled to apply interest to the shortfall if it wasnt paid promptly, but in this case  the amount 
outstanding remained  £3,895 as previously advised.
But Black Horse said it had made  a mistake when it told Ms U it had applied  a default notice 
to her account. This wasnt correct and no default  notice  or other  information  had been 
recorded against Ms U. It offered her £25 for this together with an additional £100  for its poor 
communication in general.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Shed reviewed the relevant regulations and felt 
Black Horse  had calculated the shortfall  correctly. And she felt it had acted fairly by keeping 
the shortfall to the original figure and not adding interest. And while  Ms U was unhappy that 
Black Horse  had negotiated directly with the insurance company about  the car, this was in 
line with the terms  of the hire purchase  agreement  in the event of a total loss so she 
couldnt say it was wrong to do so.
Shed seen Ms U disputed that the car was a total loss but that was a decision for the 
insurance company  and not Black Horse.  And having paid the total loss amount to Black 
Horse it was also the insurance company  that was responsible for deciding  whether to sell 
the car and at what price. She could see Ms U was unhappy shed been unable  to buy back 
the car but ultimately that was a decision for the insurance company and not Black Horse. 
And as the payment in this case was an insurance  settlement, not a forced sale,  she couldnt 
agree with Ms Us that it had been repossessed.
But it was clear Black Horse had made a mistake  in telling Ms U it had registered a default 
against her. This wasnt correct but she felt the compensation offered by Black Horse for this 
and its other  poor service was fair. In the circumstances  she wouldnt be asking it to do 
anything more.
Ms U disagreed and asked for her complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman.  She said in 
summary:
the cost of the repairs to the car were less than its value  so it shouldnt have been 
written off. shed asked to buy it back but Black Horse had put a restriction  on the 
sale so it hadnt proved  possible.  
Black  Horse and the insurance company were wrong to negotiate without her and to 
sell the car without her consent.  
Black  Horse had miscalculated the settlement figure and added  in interest that wasnt 
due.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read and considered  the whole file, 
but Ill concentrate  my comments  on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN02530303Ive seen Ms U has referred  to a number of specific pieces of legislation in her comments. 
Ive taken these  into account along, with all the relevant law, but my role isnt to offer a legal 
determination on the law but to consider whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. For that reason I may come to a decision  that a court  would not. But thats in 
line with the purpose  of this service and it doesnt restrict Ms U from rejecting my decision 
and seeking to pursue her concerns through any other options available to her.
In this case I dont consider Black Horse has acted unreasonably.  I realise this isnt the 
decision Ms U was hoping  for but in the circumstances  Im satisfied its fair as Ill now explain.
Negotiations with the insurance company
Clauses 3.2 and 3.3. of the hire purchase agreement read as follows:
3.2 if goods are stolen  or become a total loss  by this agreement you transfer to us all of 
your rights to any insurance money  due in these circumstances  in respect of the goods and 
agree that the insurers must  pay that money to us. You will pay us any money you receive 
from the insurers in respect of the goods.
3.3 if the insurance money we receive  is less than the total of the repayments  shown  on
page 1 which have not then been paid (including those still to become due) we may require
you to pay us the difference less any applicable  rebate for early payment. If the insurance
money we receive  exceeds your liability we will pay the surplus to you.
Following Ms Us car accident in March 2018, the insurance company decided  the car was a 
write off. Its usual at that point for insurance policies  to require the insured to transfer their 
rights to the insurance  company.  But in any event clause 2.2 of the agreement provided that 
in those circumstances Black Horse was entitled  to receive any insurance settlement for the 
car. For that reason I cant agree it was wrong  for Black Horse to communicate directly with 
the insurers about the claim.
I know Ms U feels the car could have been repaired instead and thats what  shed have liked. 
However ultimately thats a decision for the insurance company, not Black Horse because  
its the insurance company that must either authorise the repairs  or the settlement. And 
because of that its outside the scope of this decision and I cant comment on it further  but if 
Ms U remains unhappy  then Id advise her to raise this with the insurers.
Disposal of the car
Where a cars a write off, the insured will usually agree  to take payment  for the car and then 
assign their rights to the insurance company but until then the owner  Black Horse  in this 
case - may still have some  rights in the car until the payment is agreed.  It seems to me this 
may not have been explained fully to Ms U and may have caused  some confusion in the 
earlier letters  between her and the insurers. 
However on 31 May the insurers wrote to Ms U to say Black  Horse had released all interest 
in the vehicle and it is OK to dispose  of it via our salvage agents. On 23 July it followed this 
with another letter saying  On settling the total loss of your vehicle, you have decided  to not 
retain the vehicle,  therefore allowing us to instruct salvage. Black  Horse finance has 
released interest in the vehicle and we have instructed our salvage  agents to dispose  of the 
vehicle. Please call us on [] if you wish to discuss this further  
Ref: DRN02530304If Ms U still wanted to buy the car it seems  to me at this point that she had the opportunity to 
do so - or at least to discuss the possibility. But it would have been outside of the insurance 
settlement between the insurers  and Black Horse because by then Black Horse  had agreed  
to take the settlement in full and not retain any interest in the car. I can see Ms U feels Black 
Horse prevented her buying the car but its for the insurers to decide whether to sell so I 
cant reasonably  say Black Horse  was responsible for this.
I should add that Black  Horse didnt repossess the car as has been  suggested.  This was an 
insurance settlement  following an accident and, as is the way in such cases, the ownership 
of the car passed to the insurers once the insurance money was paid. I appreciate Ms U is 
unhappy with this process but I cant agree Back Horse has acted unfairly.
The settlement  figure
The amount  paid to settle  the claim by the insurance  company and the amount required to 
settle the hire purchase agreement are based on different calculations so they wont 
necessarily be the same.  Thats  provided  for in clause 3.3 of the hire purchase agreement  
which explains that, in that case, the hirer- in this case Ms U- will need to pay the difference.  
On that basis Im satisfied  Black  Horse was entitled  to ask Ms U to pay the shortfall.
Ive seen Black Horse used the relevant regulations to calculate the amount due under the 
agreement, including the interest rebate for an early  settlement. Unfortunately  this came to 
more than the insurance payment, leaving a shortfall  of £3,895,  but that doesnt mean its 
wrong. In this case Black Horse has used the standard method for its calculations  so I cant 
agree its made a mistake.
Default notice and credit reporting
Ive seen that initially Ms U disagreed with the figures put forward  by Black  Horse and 
stopped her payments. This seems to have caused some confusion  and may have lead to 
Black Horse  saying, wrongly,  that a default  notice had been  issued against her. I can 
understand why Ms U was upset to be told this. Clearly  it could have had implications for her 
credit record  if it had been correct. But it wasnt, as Black Horse has now acknowledged,  and 
no adverse information  has been  recorded against her. Its apologised and offered £25 for 
the confusion  together  with a further £100  for its poor communication.  Ive taken into account  
the circumstances of what happened and the impact on Ms U and I consider Black Horses  
offer is reasonable so I wont be asking it to pay anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I consider the compensation already paid by Black  Horse for its poor 
service to be sufficient and on that basis I do not uphold Ms Us complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0253030