K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he wasnt made aware  that the amount he would receive on the 
encashment of the investments within his SIPP could be lower than the value  Cedar House 
Financial Services Limited  told him when  confirming his instructions to sell the investments. 
He also complains about their charges, and the interest achieved on the cash in his SIPP.
background
After advice from Cedar House, Mr B opened  a SIPP  in 2010. He was able to see online  the 
value of the investments within the SIPP. Any dealing instructions (instructions to sell or buy 
investments within  the SIPP) had to be made to the SIPP administrator, Provider S, by 
Cedar House. 
On the morning of 28 June  2017, Mr B emailed  his financial adviser at Cedar House to ask 
that £720,000 be moved  from his SIPP to cash as soon as possible.  Less than four hours  
later an administrator at Cedar House emailed Mr B to say that the total value of the 
investments in the SIPP was £728,204. 
The SIPP was invested in two funds. The trades (sales) of these were completed  on 30 June  
2017 for a net value of £721,518. 
A few weeks  later Mr B queried why the cash balance of his SIPP was lower than hed 
expected. Cedar  House  told him that the value hed been given on 28 June was based on 
the day before his enquiry, but the amount  hed received was from 30 June when the trade  
completed.
Over the next six months  there were several exchanges between Mr B and Cedar House 
about this and other aspects of his SIPP, including Cedar Houses fees and the interest  
being earned on the cash from the sale of the investments. In October 2017, Cedar House 
agreed to reduce its yearly adviser  charge  from 1% to 0.5% of the value of the assets in the 
SIPP. 
Mr B emailed Cedar House on 25 February 2018  about how he wanted his concerns 
resolved. He said that there had been  no indication that there would be several days  of 
delays and that the value  could be subject to a drop in the market. He remained unhappy 
about the charges, which he said hadnt been reduced at all and that nothing had been done 
to improve the interest position on the cash in his SIPP.
Cedar House treated  his email as a complaint and responded in late April 2018. It said that 
there had been  no errors or delays with the processing of the trades. The difference  in the 
value was due to a fluctuation in the market. It agreed that its fees hadnt been reduced as 
they shouldve  been and apologised  for this. It said the fees taken in error would be rebated 
to his account. In relation to the interest being  obtained on the cash,  Cedar House said 
securing a better rate wasnt feasible  because Mr B needed instant access  for a property 
purchase, and that moving the cash to an account off the platform wouldve cost more  in 
fees that he couldve obtained in interest. 
But Mr B remained unhappy and so brought his complaint  to our service. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it shouldnt be upheld. He 
considered the fluctuation in the market was outside of Cedar Houses control, and it hadnt 
Ref: DRN04031272provided any guarantees that Mr B would receive the higher amount. And Mr B wouldve 
always been exposed  to fluctuation at encashment, even if hed been made aware of that 
possibility. He also thought Cedar House was entitled to charge the fees that it did, and that 
Mr B had been advised of options in relation  to the interest obtainable on the cash  in the 
SIPP. 
Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicators view, so the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 March 2020. My provisional findings were  as follows:
I can see that Mr B genuinely  feels aggrieved that he received less than he expected  to 
when his investments  were encashed.  Thats completely understandable. And he also thinks 
that adviser charges where a SIPP is held in cash is unacceptable,  and that Cedar House 
hasnt done all it could  to obtain better interest rates  on the cash in the SIPP.  But Im afraid  
Im going  to have  to disappoint him, as Im not going to ask Cedar  House to do anything 
further. Ill explain why. But before  I do so, Id like to reassure Mr B that Ive read the whole 
file carefully even if I dont  refer to every point raised.  Ill only mention those matters that I 
need to in order to resolve  the complaint. 
encashment of the investments
In its final response letter  to the complaint  Cedar  House says that Mr B shouldve  been 
aware that the WRAP platform  for his SIPP  worked  on a forward  price basis so that when 
the sale of a fund is requested, the price would be secured at the next available pricing point 
(daily). It says this wouldve been explained in the products Key Features document that 
was provided with the initial suitability  letter for the SIPP, dated 21 May 2010, as well as 
Provider Ss Terms and Conditions that Mr B signed when he established the plan. 
Where a fund is sold on a forward pricing basis, the price which  will be achieved for the 
asset cant be known  until after the applicable pricing point  the point at which the price  for 
the sale of units  in the fund is established. 
Ive looked at the key features for the SIPP and it doesnt refer to forward pricing at all. The 
SIPP terms and conditions also dont  make it plain that forward  pricing  applies.  Ive set out 
below some extracts from the terms and conditions which  deal with sales and pricing points:
12.12 Provided we receive  dealing  instructions in accordance with these Terms, 
we will
 place all dealing  instructions with the person(s) that will execute them as soon as
reasonably practical  and in any event no later than one business day after the 
pricing
point (or in the case of a wrap SIPP, the third business day following receipt  of the
dealing instructions).
pricing point means the time when the price of the underlying assets  and cash held 
by a fund is
calculated. Funds are generally priced each business day, although some  fund s 
are priced weekly  or at
other frequencies. Information on when each fund available from the wrap 
platform is priced can be
Ref: DRN04031273obtained from the prospectus  and or fund factsheet which  you can obtain from 
your financial adviser
or the platform customer  centre .
I dont think Mr B wouldve  realised from this that the pricing point could  be in the future, 
rather than the immediate past. In other  words,  I dont think Mr B wouldve realised that it 
was the next pricing point after he made his request to sell that would apply, rather  than the 
one that was used to give him the value after he made his request. 
But even if he had been aware, I dont  think he couldve done anything about  it. This is 
because there was no way to avoid the application of the forward  pricing point even if he had 
known. 
Cedar House agrees  that it didnt tell Mr B that the value given could fluctuate and that there 
were no guarantees  the value given would be achieved. But as our adjudicator said, even  if 
Mr B had been aware that the value could fluctuate, there was no way to avoid that risk. It 
would arise whenever the decision  to sell was made. Ive no reason to think that Mr B 
wouldve done anything  differently if he had been  made aware. Mr Bs concern was to take 
profits when  the market was at a high, so I think it is more likely than not that he wouldve 
still given the instructions  to sell even if he had been made  aware. 
adviser fees
Mr B is unhappy that hes had to pay adviser  fees to Cedar House whilst his SIPP  is held in 
cash. I understand the strength of Mr Bs feeling, but Im afraid I dont think  it would  be fair 
for me to tell Cedar  House to refund any adviser  fees it has charged him whilst Mr Bs SIPP 
is held in cash. Ive looked  at the client  agreements  Mr B signed  consenting to the fees since 
he took out the SIPP in 2010. Mr B receives  the private client service  and that has had an 
ongoing adviser fee of 1% of assets held in the SIPP. 
In October  2017, as a result of Mr B being unhappy  with the fee level whilst his SIPP was 
held in cash, Cedar House agreed to reduce  the ongoing adviser fee from 1% to 0.5% 
without any obligation  to do so. I know that Cedar  House initially failed to reduce its fee in 
accordance with the October 2017  client agreement but it has since  done  so and rebated  the 
amount incorrectly taken. And Cedar House still carries out administrative activities  in 
relation to the SIPP, and has overheads that need  be met, even where the SIPP  balance  is 
held in cash. So Im not going  to tell it that it cant charge  the agreed fee. 
interest on cash balance
From early  July 2017 onwards Mr Bs SIPP held a substantial cash  balance  from the sale of 
the two funds. Mr Bs complaint is that hed received virtually no interest on the cash in his 
SIPP.
In its response to his complaint, Cedar House said that itd emailed  him in late November  
2017 setting out options, including  rates that could be obtained with instant access  to the 
money, and rates that might be obtained  if it was tied up for longer. In that email  it also said 
that it understood he was looking to use the money to buy a property so it expected he 
would want the money  accessible immediately. It also said that it wouldnt be cost effective 
to move the money  off the SIPP  platform in an effort to obtain a better  rate.
Ref: DRN04031274Mr B says that Cedar  House knew that he didnt  need the whole of the money for a house  
purchase. He also says that Cedar House had indicated much  earlier  than November that it 
would look for a better return on the money. 
Ive looked carefully  at the email of late November 2017. It does suggest that all the money  
is needed for a property.  Mr B says that isnt the case, and that Cedar  House knew  it wasnt  
all needed. I note that Mr B was dealing with a number of people  at Cedar House. The 
person who prepared and sent him the email in late November wasnt  the person that Mr B 
said was aware that any property purchase would need only £200,000 of the money. And so 
Ive no reason to think that the person drafting the email  was knowingly misrepresenting the 
situation - rather it was clear that they were  stating their understanding. 
But theres no indication  that Mr B responded to that email, either by correcting that 
misunderstanding, or by indicating  what he wished  to be done with the money in terms of an 
interest bearing account, instant access or longer term. So I dont think  I can say that after 
late November 2017 Cedar House shouldve  obtained  a better interest  rate. It didnt have 
instructions from Mr B to do so.
Ive also thought carefully about whether Cedar  House shouldve  done anything in relation to 
the interest being  earned on the money in the period between early  July, when the money 
from the sales was deposited  in the SIPP, and late November 2017,  when Cedar  House 
emailed Mr B with some  options for earning interest  on the money Im not sure what 
discussions took place  during this period. But from the emails  between Mr B and Cedar 
House from early October 2017 it seems clear that Mr B was unhappy about the declining 
balance of his SIPP due to fees.  Cedar  House addressed that by agreeing later in October 
2017 to reduce the fee level,  as Ive said above. 
But I dont think Cedar House was required to pro-actively take steps to determine an 
investment strategy  for the money  in the account until Mr B directly asked it to do so, as they 
arent discretionary fund managers-  managers who are able to make and change  
investments within  certain parameters. It was reasonable  to wait for Mr B instructions  as to 
what he wanted done with the money,  and Mr B mustve known it was all sitting  in cash  after 
the sale of the funds.
And given  the likely misunderstanding over how much of the money was needed for a house  
purchase, I dont think it unreasonable  that Cedar House didnt raise it with him, as some of 
its staff thought all the money needed  to be kept in cash.
Cedar House did take three weeks to provide Mr B with options in relation to the interest  
obtainable on the money in the SIPP  after he raised  the issue  directly in his email of 2 
November 2017.  I do think this was too long. But since  Mr B didnt reply  to that later email, 
Ive no reason to think that he wouldve responded to an email sent a couple  of weeks 
sooner. So Im not convinced this delay caused him a loss. 
So, although  I appreciate this will disappoint Mr B, for the reasons given I dont  propose  to 
ask Cedar House to do anything.
My provisional decision was that I didnt uphold the complaint.
Cedar House said that after reading  the provisional  decision  it had no further details or 
information to add. 
Ref: DRN04031275Shortly after receiving the provisional decision, Mr B said that there were still inaccuracies  
and incorrect assumptions  in the provisional decision and he would provide a further 
response. In due course Mr B replied,  saying  that there was a false conclusion by me about 
his not replying to the Cedar House  email of 23 November. Hed dealt with another  person at 
Cedar House directly and that person knew all along  what  the position was. Mr B said that 
by this time he was sick and tired of dealing with the malfunctioning at the firm, and the other 
person had been told repeatedly about  all this, generally in phone conversations.  The other 
person was copied in on the email  of 23 November and did nothing. Mr B says that the other 
person at Cedar House knew that he didnt  need the money  to be accessible immediately 
and Mr B didnt need to reply to the email.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive thought carefully about Mr Bs 
comments, as he is clearly unhappy with my provisional decision. But having done  so, I still 
think my provisional decision is the right one.
Mr B says he didnt need to respond  to the email of 23 November because the Cedar 
Houses principal knew the information  in it was incorrect. But Id also said in my provisional 
decision that he hadnt responded by providing any instructions as to what  he wanted  done 
with the monies  in terms of an interest-bearing account, instant access or longer term. And 
as Ive said, Cedar House  werent  discretionary fund managers,  so needed instructions from 
Mr B before it could  act. 
Mr B hasnt directly commented  on other aspects of my provisional decision, other than to 
say that there were  inaccuracies and incorrect assumptions.  Other than as above, he hasnt 
set out what those are. As Ive said, Ive reviewed the file, and my provisional decision,  and 
Im content  with its findings.  So Im not going to change my decision. 
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold the complaint. I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed, and Im sorry for that. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0403127