K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited have rejected his income protection 
claim. 
background
Mr T has an income protection  policy with Aviva. The policy  is designed to provide him with a 
monthly benefit in the event of accident  or sickness which renders him completely incapable 
of performing his normal occupation.
Mr Ts normal occupation is desk  based,  so is considered  office/clerical  work. The policy has 
a deferred period of 26 weeks, meaning  Mr T needs to meet the policys  terms and 
conditions for that amount of time before becoming eligible for benefit.  And he is required to 
submit a claim within two months  of being unable to work. 
In September  2017 Mr T made a claim on his policy. He told Aviva that hed been unable to 
work since December 2016 because of neck and shoulder pain, and explained changes to 
his neck had been seen in an MRI.  So, as part of considering his claim,  Aviva looked at 
Mr Ts medical  records. 
Aviva said that according to those records the first indication  of Mr T being  unable to work  
due to shoulder pain was in March 2017. It said hed been signed  off work until April 2017 at 
that point but, because  he hadnt  been signed off again until November 2017 and had 
continued to work in-between those times, hadnt  met the 26 week  deferred period  from 
March 2017. Aviva also said that the medical evidence  itself didnt demonstrate that Mr Ts 
symptoms were of such severity that hed been prevented  from undertaking his normal  
occupation (desk based),  especially  taking into account workplace adaptions. 
Avivas Chief Medical Officer  (CMO) also commented on the MRI that was available and 
said that whilst the results of it were  abnormal,  they were  compatible  with Mr Ts age. The 
CMO wasnt  persuaded  that Mr Ts MRI had confirmed that hed been rendered totally 
disabled from the generic  duties of his occupation.  So Aviva  felt that Mr T hadnt met the 26 
week deferred period from November 2017 either and decided to decline his claim.
Unhappy with what had happened,  Mr T approached this service and one of our 
investigators looked into things. She said there  wasnt  any evidence to support Mr Ts claim 
of being unable to work  prior to March 2017. And that the available  evidence  didnt show 
hed been unable to perform his normal occupation either. She felt that Mr T hadnt shown 
that hed met the terms and conditions of the policy but Mr T disagreed  with that and sent 
our investigator a consultants letter in relation to his MRI. 
Our investigator shared that letter  with Aviva. But Aviva  explained  the letter hadnt been 
available or considered at the time it decided to decline  Mr Ts claim, and hed need to 
submit it as part of a new complaint if he wanted  it to be taken into account now.  
Mr T remained unhappy with what had happened  though and said Aviva  had been given 
enough information to see that it should pay his claim. He asked for an ombudsman to 
consider the matter, so the complaint has now been  passed to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN06939022my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules, which are set out in full under  ICOBS and can be found in the FCA 
Handbook, explain that Aviva are required  to handle claims promptly and fairly  and mustnt  
reject them unreasonably.
As explained, Mr Ts policy had a 26 week deferred  period. When making his claim in 
September 2017 he told Aviva that hed been unable to work since December 2016.  But, 
based on the evidence Ive seen,  the first record of him being unable to work because of 
shoulder/neck pain is in March 2017 when he was signed off work by his GP until April 2017. 
Theres nothing after that date to persuade me that Mr T continued to be unfit for work 
beyond that, because the next record of him being  signed off work again isnt until 
November 2017  for two months. So, based on the available evidence, it would appear that 
Mr T had been able to manage work  between those dates. 
Mr T needed to demonstrate that hed been totally incapable of performing the duties  of his 
normal occupation for 26 weeks before being eligible for the benefit his policy provides. I 
dont think it was unreasonable  of Aviva to decide  that Mr T hadnt demonstrated that after 
he was signed  off in March 2017.  And I dont think it was unreasonable of it to go on to 
consider whether Mr T had been able to demonstrate that from November 2017  either.
Mr Ts occupation  is desk based. So Aviva would have considered  whether accident  and 
sickness had rendered  Mr T totally  incapable  of performing a desk  based office role from 
November 2017  onwards.  Im aware that Mr T has said the medical  evidence  already 
provided, which includes an MRI scan and sick notes from his GP confirm that hes unable to 
carry out his daily work.  But Aviva  has said that Mr T hasnt substantiated that position, and 
its CMO has said the results of his MRI wouldnt render him totally disabled  from the generic 
duties of his occupation.
Looking at the evidence as a whole, Mr T has been signed off work  from his GP on different 
occasions because  of shoulder/neck pain. He has had physiotherapy for his pain, and has 
had x-rays and ultrasounds to explore  the cause of it. There  are however, several  entries 
within the evidence  that point to Mr T having  continued to manage  to work despite  that. 
I have no reason to doubt that Mr T has been suffering with pain in his neck/shoulder and 
that he has had to take some time away  from work because of it. But Im not persuaded that 
Mr T has demonstrated  that hes totally incapable  of performing his normal occupation.  Nor 
am I persuaded that the evidence shows that hes unable to perform his role taking into 
account workplace  adjustments.
At the point Aviva  reached  its decision on Mr Ts claim, other  than its own CMO,  there was 
no other medical opinion  on Mr Ts MRI results. Mr T has since  gone on to provide a letter  
from a Consultant Spinal  Surgeon  that he feels supports his position  on the MRI. But Aviva  
has explained that letter is dated some  months after its final response, and it didnt form part 
of its consideration  at the time. It has said that Mr T can provide that letter as part of another 
complaint if he wants to do so. But, unfortunately, it wont  be forming  part of this complaint 
and I wont be commenting on it.
.  
Ref: DRN06939023Based on the evidence  in this case and for the reasons given above, Im not persuaded that 
Aviva acted unreasonably  in declining Mr Ts claim.  I realise  that Mr T will be disappointed 
by that, but I wont be asking the insurer to do anything.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0693902