K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Gain Credit LLC (Lending Stream)  lent him money he couldnt afford to 
repay.
background
Mr M took out one short term loan and three  instalments loans (4 in total) with 
Lending Stream. These are:
Loan Date amount instalments Repayment date
1 22 June 2013 £140 1 05 July 2013
2 22 August 2013 £300 7 09 September 2013
4 29 October 2013 £60 3 31 January 2014
5 25 January 2014 £80 3 09 July 2015
When Mr M complained to Lending  Stream  that the loans  werent  affordable it didnt agree. It 
says it was entitled to rely on the information Mr M gave about  his income and outgoings,  
and when it did so, along with carrying out a credit check, it saw that the loans were 
affordable for him. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ms complaint should not be upheld. He says 
Lending Stream carried  out proportionate checks for all 4 loans and so it didnt do anything 
wrong. 
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators view and says he had numerous other payday loans at 
the time and so Lending Stream shouldnt have lent him the money. As both parties are still 
not in agreement, the complaint has come to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
this complaint. I will explain  why.
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Lending Stream, at the time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate  
checks to satisfy  itself that Mr M would  be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr M would have been 
able to do so.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Ms indebtedness  in a way that was otherwise 
unsustainable or harmful?
Did Lending Stream act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
If I determine that Lending Stream did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M 
and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Ref: DRN02768162Lending Stream was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make  checks to see whether    
Mr T could  afford to pay back the loan before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr M was borrowing and the length of the 
agreement. But there was no set list of checks Lending Stream  had to do.
Mr Ms first loan was for £140. Lending  Stream  says he told it he was earning £1390 and 
declared expenditure of £700. Lending  Stream also says it carried out a credit agency check 
that it says was satisfactory. 
I can see the repayment was a small  proportion of Mr Ms declared disposable income and 
this was his first loan.  So for those two reasons, I am satisfied that the checks  carried  out by 
Lending Stream for the first loan were proportionate.
Mr M asked  for second loan of £300  after his first loan ended. This was to be repaid in 7 
monthly instalments  with the largest  monthly  repayment being £94.94.  Lending Stream  again 
asked Mr M about his income  and outgoings  for this loan to make sure he could afford it over 
the 7 instalments. 
Again, the information provided  by Mr M (£1390  income and £700 expenditure) for this loan 
would have showed that the loan was affordable with him having enough disposable income 
to comfortably meet the monthly repayment.  I cant see anything that would suggest to me 
that Lending Stream should  have  carried  out further checks  over what  it had already  done. 
Mr M took out loan 3 on 29 October 2013 and loan 4 on 25 January 2014.  Both loans were  
for relatively  small  amounts with loan 3 amounting to £60 to be paid over 3 instalments and 
loan 4 for £80 also over 3 instalments. Lending  Stream again asked Mr M for information 
about his monthly  income and expenditure. Mr Ms total repayment was still comfortably 
within his declared  disposable income.  So I think the checks  it carried out for these 2 loans 
were proportionate and I dont  think it should have carried  out further checks  based  on what 
it was told by Mr M and the amounts he was borrowing.  
Mr M has said that Lending Stream should have  seen  he had several other  payday  loans 
and not lent to him as a result. But as Ive said above, I think that the checks  it did carry out 
for these  four loans, by asking  Mr M for information  about his income and expenditure - were 
proportionate.
In conclusion, I consider  the affordability checks that Lending Stream made on Mr Ms four 
loans were proportionate and sufficient.  So I cant say now that it was wrong for 
Lending Stream to give these loans to Mr M. And so I cant require it to do anything  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 7 March  2019.
Mark Richardson
Ref: DRN02768163ombudsman
Ref: DRN0276816