K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd (CFC) didnt provide the service 
it should have  in regard to the repossession of her car following the termination of her hire 
purchase agreement  (HPA).  
background
Mrs M entered into a HPA in June 2015  to acquire a used car. She says that following issues  
with her HPA the car was due to be collected.  She says that the car wasnt collected as 
agreed and that her complaint wasnt acknowledged. She says that had the car been 
collected it could  have been  sold with the proceeds reducing the outstanding balance  on her 
account. 
CFC says that Mrs M made contact with it in September 2016 and later that year payment 
arrangements were agreed. In January  2016, an income and expenditure assessment was 
carried out which showed the HPA had become unaffordable and it says it explained the car 
would be repossessed. It says Mrs M consented  to this and updated the agent on the 
location of the car. It says Mrs M didnt  say at this time that she wished to voluntarily 
terminate the HPA.
CFC says that Mrs M contacted it in April 2016 to ask to keep the car but as it had been sent 
for repossession it says the full balance  on the HPA was due. It says Mrs M was sent 
statements and notice  of arrears through 2016 and 2017 but no contact was made until May 
2018. It says it tried to contact Mrs M at this time but Mrs M didnt respond and so her 
complaint wasnt investigated  and a final response  letter not issued. 
CFC says that collection of the car was assigned to two third party companies and that one 
of these companies visited in March 2016 but the car wasnt present so a letter was left.
Our adjudicator said that when the issue of repossession was discussed Mrs M told CFC 
where the car was located.  She said that of the parties instructed to collect the car, one 
hadnt done any work on the account  and the other had attended an incorrect  address. This 
suggested the recovery agent  didnt  have the correct details needed to recover the car. 
Our adjudicator said that Mrs M had been  in contact with CFC in November 2016  about the 
recovery which had been recorded as a fail. She thought that the CFC should have clarified 
details at this time in order  to enable the repossession  to take place. Based on this she 
recommended that Mrs Ms outstanding balance be reduced by £1,755, (the trade  valuation  
for the car as at November 2016).  
CFC didnt respond to our adjudicators view and so the case has been  passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms HPA has been terminated. Based on the information I have seen I accept that it was 
reasonable that this action was taken  as the payments  under the HPA had not been 
maintained. 
Ref: DRN04961042Looking through  the notes provided  by CFC I can see that in January 2016 a call took place 
on which Mrs Ms income and expenditure was assessed. It was concluded that the HPA 
was no longer affordable and repossession of the car was discussed. At this time Mrs M 
provided a contact number and told CFC where  the car was located. 
CFC used a third party for the collection. It appears  that this was attempted  in March 2016. 
Based on the information provided by the recovery company, attempts  were  made  to collect  
the car from Mrs Ms address. However, as Mrs M had explained on the call in January her 
car was located elsewhere. As the details of this were provided it is reasonable that these 
would have been passed to the recovery agent.
Mrs Ms car wasnt  collected in early  2016  as expected.  In November 2016, Mrs M contacted 
CFC about  the car not being collected.  At this time I think  it would have bene  reasonable for 
CFC to check  the required details and for the collection to take place. However this still didnt 
happen.
Mrs M has not been able to use the car since early 2016 and so has not had any benefit 
from the car not being collected. She has said it is parked on private land so I am not aware 
of any costs she has incurred. Based on the statement of accounts provided I cant  see that 
any interest has been charge on her account since November  2015 which  I find reasonable.
The outstanding issue is that the car was not collected when it should have been.  Given this 
I think it fair that the car is now collected at no cost to Mrs M. However it is likely the cars 
value will have reduced during the time it has been  awaiting collection. It appears the 
collection could have  taken place in early 2016  had the correct  details  been  provided. 
Further as Mrs M contacted CFC In November 2016  CFC had an opportunity  to address  this 
issue at that time.
Overall, I think it fair that Mrs M receives the benefit of the cars value as at November 2016. 
This should be offset against her account.  Our adjudicator has provided evidence for this 
being £1,755. 
The car still needs to be collected and I think this should now happen  at no cost to Mrs M. In 
the event the car is then sold and the proceeds are higher than £1,755 then the additional 
amount should  also be removed from her outstanding balance. 
my final decision
My final decision is that The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd should reduce the 
outstanding balance on Mrs M account by £1,755.  It should also collect  the car at no cost to 
Mrs M and, in the event  a higher price  than £1,755 is achieved at sale, the additional  funds 
should be offset against Mrs Ms outstanding  balance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0496104