K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim 
she made under her car insurance policy. Mr C is a named driver under the policy  and is 
helping Mrs C with her complaint.
background
Mr and Mrs Cs daughter  was a named driver under  Mrs Cs policy with Admiral.  
Unfortunately she was involved in a collision with another driver in April 2019.  So she made  
a claim to Admiral. 
Between April and June 2019  Mr and Mrs C raised  a number of complaints with Admiral. 
Mr and Mrs C contacted  us in May 2019. I havent listed  every complaint, but I can assure 
Mr and Mrs C that Ive considered everything they and Admiral have provided. The main 
complaint is that Admiral  decided not to repair Mrs Cs car.
Admiral settled the claim as a total loss and paid a market value of £2,890 (minus a salvage  
fee) to Mrs C. 
Mr C didnt agree with the Approved Repairers (AR) report and wanted to speak to an 
engineer about  the repairs. As the final estimate  for repairs came to the same  as the total 
loss sum, Mr C wanted Admiral to repair the car rather than write it off. 
Mr and Mrs C were frustrated with Admiral as they felt their request was a logical one. 
Admiral spent time and money in hire car cover, investigation costs  and instructing  an 
Independent Assessor. (IA). They  felt these costs could have been avoided  if it had agreed 
to repair  the car instead. 
Admiral arranged for an independent assessor (IA) to provide a report on the repairs 
because Mr C didnt agree with the ARs  report. The IA said the estimate to repair the car 
was reasonable  and so Admiral said its decision to settle the claim as a total loss was 
correct. 
Mr C thought the repairs could be reduced by a further £400, in addition  to a previously 
agreed reduction in the labour costs by £300.  Mr C said this would make it economical  for 
Admiral to repair. But Admiral said it wouldnt make a difference.  And Admiral said it was 
also possible  that on further dismantling of the car, it would likely reveal suspension damage 
to the car. It said Mrs C could choose  to arrange her own repairs,  but this would be outside 
of the policy  as its ARs estimate was deemed  reasonable by the IA. It said it correctly  
recorded the car as written off.
Admiral paid Mrs C an interim payment for the total loss settlement minus its salvage fee. It 
asked Mr and Mrs C to let it know  if Mrs C wanted to keep  the car. If so, it would arrange its 
return. If not, Admiral  would dispose of it and refund  the salvage fee. Mr and Mrs C thought 
Admiral had ended the car hire agreement too soon. But Admiral  said it provided  a hire car 
as a benefit over and above the policy  as a hire car is only available if the car is repairable.  
Admiral said Mrs C could look to recover uninsured losses under the legal protection  section 
of the policy.
Mr C said the car was worth around £3,800. But Admiral  said its valuation of £2,890  was fair 
using the main motor  trade guides.
Ref: DRN02578172Mr C was unhappy that Admiral cancelled Mrs Cs policy  after settling the claim. They  were  
concerned that the car was at the AR and not insured. They  didnt want  the car returned  to 
them while uninsured. They  were unhappy  that Mrs C wasnt insured to drive other vehicles. 
Admiral said the car was in no immediate danger while at the AR. But it agreed it shouldnt 
have processed the cancellation on 4 May 2019. It moved Mrs Cs car to free storage. 
Admiral said the car remains  there until it receives a decision  from this service.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  that they raised  their concerns with the CEO at Admiral,  but he 
didnt personally  reply. Instead,  their complaint was handled by individuals  theyd 
complained about.  Admiral said its complaints  handling team  deals with complaints  on behalf 
of the CEO and it believes it investigated their complaints  fairly.
Mr and Mrs C said the service  they received from Admiral was poor and a bank holiday 
weekend had been ruined  spending  time in calls and communication with Admiral. 
Admiral accepted that at times  its service was below standard. It said there  was some 
misinformation in calls from Admiral  and the AR. For this it paid £400 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, £50 for the costs of calls,  £50 toward  the following bank 
holiday weekend for Mr and Mrs C to spend,  and £20 for travel  costs associated with 
obtaining a hire car. It said it would cover an additional excess fee of £5 a day which  Mrs C 
chose under the hire car agreement.
In June 2019 Admiral  said that it would communicate with Mr and Mrs C in future by letter or 
email.
In June 2019 Admiral  made the decision to give Mr C notice of cancellation of his policy  
under its multi car policy. Mr C paid for the days he was insured. 
Mr and Mrs C said Admirals decision to change how they could communicate with it  and 
the decision to cancel insurance   made  it impractical and difficult  for Mr and Mrs C to deal 
with the claim and obtain alternative insurance  elsewhere. 
Mrs C was unhappy that a claim from November 2016 hadnt been  resolved and it meant  
shed paid a higher premium. Admiral said the claim was handled  under the legal protection 
section of Mrs Cs policy. It has since closed the claim and refunded  the difference in the 
premium paid. 
Our investigator thought the complaints Admiral  upheld  had been  resolved fairly. She found 
that overall Admiral  had acted reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mrs C didnt agree. She believes  we havent properly considered  their complaints and all of 
the information theyve provided. In particular, she says:
The IA was appointed  by Admiral and is therefore not independent. Weve 
ignored the fact that an engineer previously said the ARs labour  estimate  
was too high and reduced it by £300.  This difference made it economical to 
repair the car. Mrs C drove  her car following the incident to the AR so it was 
driveable. If the suspension  required  replacing (as the IA reported), she 
doesnt believe she could  have  driven  it after the incident.  
Admirals complaint handlers  investigated  complaints against themselves 
which cant be right. When Mr C said their complaints process wasnt  fit for 
Ref: DRN02578173purpose, Admiral  withdrew cover and refused  to communicate with them  by 
phone. This made it very difficult to obtain alternative insurance elsewhere.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate that Mrs C has spent some  time collating the information she has provided us 
with. I can assure her Ive reviewed everything. My decision  focusses on the fact that central  
to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is Admirals decision not to repair the car.
Mrs Cs policy says that in the event of a claim for damage,  Admiral will decide how to settle 
the claim:  either  by paying to repair the damage or paying a cash sum to replace the 
damaged car. 
I understand that Mr C didnt agree  with the estimate provided by the AR. And I appreciate 
that Admirals engineer  discussed a reduction  in the labour costs estimated by the AR. 
Insurers deal with a network of ARs and it isnt unusual for the insurer to discuss repair 
estimates where necessary. 
An insurer  can decide at what  point a car isnt economical to repair. It isnt unusual in the 
industry for a vehicle  to be uneconomical to repair if the costs are more  than 60% of the 
market value of the car. So in this case  even if the reduction Mr C felt was possible of £400  
- in addition to the £300 reduction the engineer discussed  this still meant the repair costs 
were almost  as much as the market value  of the car. And so even a reduction  of up to £700 
wouldnt affect Admirals  decision that it wasnt economical to repair the car.
As Mr C didnt  accept the ARs report, I think it was reasonable of Admiral  to instruct an IA in 
order to resolve the issue. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C doesnt  believe the IA was 
independent. But Ive seen examples where  an IA doesnt agree with an ARs report   and 
Ive nothing to show me that this IA wasnt independent. In the IAs opinion, the ARs 
estimate for repairs was reasonable. I understand Mrs C drove the car following the incident. 
However, the IA reported  that a wheel alignment check confirmed the complete suspension 
would require replacing in order to bring the car back  to a safe and roadworthy condition.
So I cant say that Admiral was unreasonable by relying on the professional  opinion  of both 
the AR and an IA. I therefore  think its decision  to deal with the claim as a total loss was fair 
and in line with the policy. 
Mrs Cs policy says the most Admiral will pay in the event of a claim is the market value of 
her car at the time of loss. It defines the term market value as the cost of replacing  your 
car, with one of a similar make, model, year,  mileage and condition based on market prices 
at the time of the loss.
We dont decide  a valuation. But we look at whether  an insurer reached its valuation in a fair 
way. We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We think the retail 
transacted figure provided by the main motor  trade  guides are a reliable way to decide  a 
valuation for a car. This is the amount Mrs C might  pay for a similar car from a retail  garage.  
Their valuations are based  on likely selling prices for a car of the same make, model, age, 
condition and mileage. 
Ref: DRN02578174We find adverts are less reliable as they vary widely and tend to be a starting  point to 
negotiate a price downward.  In this case, Admiral look at the main motor  trade guides and 
used the highest of the three guides when deciding a market value for Mrs Cs car. So I think  
it reached its valuation  in a reasonable way. 
Admiral gave Mr and Mrs C the option  to either:  withdraw their claim,  have Admiral deal with 
the claim and pay the market value and dispose  of the car, or have the car returned to them 
to arrange their own repairs and receive  a market value minus  the salvage  fee Admiral  
would have otherwise received on disposal. Alternatively, Mr and Mrs C could arrange 
disposal rather than repair. If Mr and Mrs C chose to withdraw their claim,  Mrs C would need 
to pay back the market value Admiral  paid her.
Admiral paid the market  value minus the salvage  fee as Mr and Mrs C didnt want the car 
returned to them while uninsured and not repaired. They said the car had a flat tyre when 
Mrs C viewed it at the AR. Admiral  said theres  no evidence this was caused by the AR. 
Mrs C has provided photos of her car while it was held at the ARs  after it was declared  a 
total loss. Mr C said they asked the AR to move the car, which they did. There  isnt any 
evidence to show that the storage of Mrs Cs car prejudiced her position or meant her car 
was at threat  of further damage. 
Admiral covered the costs of a hire car up until it settled the claim.  Under  Mrs Cs policy  she 
isnt entitled to a replacement  car if her car isnt repairable. This isnt an unusual  term in 
standard motor  insurance policies. I know that Mr and Mrs C felt Admiral was unreasonable  
to request the return of the hire car when  it did as this didnt give them  enough time to make 
alternative arrangements. But I think Admiral  covered the costs of a replacement  car beyond 
the scope of the policy  so I cant criticise it for its actions  here. 
As Admiral made a total loss settlement  for the insured car, it was entitled  to end cover.  And 
the policy says If Mrs Cs car cannot  be repaired economically, Admiral  will move it to a 
place of storage  as soon as possible. As this is what Admiral  has done pending my decision, 
I think its been reasonable.  
I understand that the options  provided by Admiral  dont  include the one Mr and Mrs C 
wanted: which was to repair the car. But I think Admiral has dealt with the claim correctly as 
a total loss claim. So its for Mrs C to let Admiral  know  how to proceed  based on the 
available options
Its not for us to decide  who in a business  replies to a complaint. But Ive considered  the 
complaints Mr and Mrs C raised and whether Admiral dealt with them  in a fair way. 
I think there were times when Admirals handling of the claim could have been better. And 
Ive no doubt that dealing  with a claim can be stressful and inconvenient,  even when  things 
go smoothly. So when  errors are made,  this can cause unnecessary  additional distress. 
Admiral has apologised  to Mr and Mrs C for the errors it made and paid a total of £520  
compensation. When things go wrong,  we look at what  an insurer did to put things right.  In 
this case, I think Admiral has done  enough  as its in line with what we would recommend in 
similar circumstances. 
Admiral gave Mr and Mrs C notice on 4 June 2019  that it would cancel Mr Cs policy under 
the multi  car cover on 10 June 2019.  It said it reached this decision due to the severity of the 
complaints and feedback from Mr C as to the suitability  of the policies. 
Ref: DRN02578175An insurer  can make  a decision  to no longer  offer insurance to a customer. But I think an 
insurer should give reasonable  notice  of its decision. In this case I think  Admiral did. Mr C 
paid only for the time he was insured.
I understand Mr and Mrs C will be very disappointed with my decision. And I appreciate that 
dealing with the claim has caused  Mrs C distress. But I think overall Admiral  has dealt with 
the claim and the complaint in a reasonable way. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0257817