K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained about the way Aviva  Insurance Limited dealt with an extension to 
their travel policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S had this travel insurance policy through their bank account.  It covers Mr and 
Ms S and their children up to the age of 23, if the child is in full time education, for individual  
trips that are no longer  than 31 days.
In July 2017 Mrs S made a telephone call to advise that they were due to go on a family 
holiday later that summer and that Mr S and one of their children would be staying longer 
than the 31 days  allowed. An extension to their policy was arranged  to allow both Mr S and 
their son stay on longer.  Mrs S paid £47.38 for this extension over the phone  by card.  
Mrs S was reviewing her bank statement in October  2017 and neither she nor Mr S 
recognised a payment of £47.38 to Aviva. Mrs S went back  and forth between  Aviva and her 
bank to try and establish what  the payment was for. 
Mrs S tells us she thought  she had been  dealing with her bank when arranging  the extension  
to the travel  insurance.  And that is why she didnt recognise the payment to Aviva.
In November 2017 Mrs S had her bank reverse the transaction. That meant  that Aviva then 
wasnt paid for the extension to the policy that had been arranged  in July for the summer  
holiday. 
Aviva tried to recover this and Mrs S arranged to repay it in early  2018. However, she felt 
she had been  treated  unfairly so she brought her complaint to us. Ultimately, the investigator 
didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In this decision Im only able to consider the actions of Aviva, not the bank.
When Mrs S arranged  the extension it wasnt clear  to her that the payment would be to Aviva 
as she thought she was dealing with her bank. And as several weeks  had passed she 
couldnt immediately  recall a payment for £47.38  for any insurance  transaction. 
When Mrs S contacted Aviva she got in touch with a department  that didnt deal with the 
partnership with her bank. So they were  unable to trace a policy for Mr and Mrs S. The policy  
booklet does contain a telephone number that would have taken Mr and Mrs S to a 
department that would have been  able to deal with queries on the Aviva  travel policy  taken 
out through the bank.  So Im satisfied that Aviva  didnt do anything wrong when they said 
they couldnt trace a policy for Mr and Mrs S or shed any light on what the payment was for.
Ref: DRN03419332In a phone  call with her bank Mrs S explained  she hadnt given her details to Aviva and she 
didnt know what the payment  to them was for. Mrs S was then put through  to the team  that 
handles disputed transactions.  It checked  if Mrs S recalled any insurance related 
transactions or had made any purchases for the amount, Mrs S said she didnt. The adviser 
confirmed that the transaction was either  done over the phone  or the internet. Mrs S 
explained that she rarely used the card. 
Based on the information Mrs S provided,  her bank said it would initiate a dispute on her 
account and credit her account with the amount of the transaction.  As she didnt recall  the 
transaction Mrs S confirmed she was happy  for the dispute to be progressed.  So her bank 
proceeded to reverse the transaction. 
As the transaction  had been reversed it meant Aviva no longer had the £47.38  premium  for 
the extension  of cover. The period of cover under the travel  insurance extension had now 
passed so Mr and Ms S had enjoyed the cover but Aviva  hadnt had the payment  of £47.38. 
So I find it fair and reasonable for Aviva  to cancel the cover that had been provided by the 
extension. And request that Mr and Mrs S pay the £47.38 that was due to them  for the cover 
theyd provided.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ss frustration  with the situation, and the potential for confusion  
as to whether  or not she was speaking with her bank  or with Aviva  when  arranging  the 
extension of cover. However, I cannot  say that Aviva  have done anything wrong. And it is 
right that Mr and Mrs S pay for the extension  of cover that was agreed.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0341933