K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks unhappy with the information Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited (trading  as 
Barclays Partner Finance) has recorded on his credit file. He wants  it amended.
background
Mr K is unhappy because Clydesdale has recorded an arrangement  to pay on his credit file. 
Mr K entered into a hire purchase  agreement with Clydesdale. In summary over a period of 
time he missed some payments, a payment arrangement  was made and, as he missed  
some payments, a default was issued which has subsequently  been  removed from his 
record. The account  was brought back up to date but when a payment was missed in June  
2018 the contract was voided,  the full balance became due and possession of the car could 
be sought. Possession of the car wasnt pursued and Clydesdale has agreed to an 
arrangement to pay the outstanding balance. 
Clydesdale has confirmed  that as a payment was missed in June 2018  it correctly 
terminated the agreement. It has removed a default  that was incorrectly  recorded  and it 
didnt pursue repossession of the car. But the termination still stands and there is an 
arrangement to pay whats still owed.
 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
As a termination notice was issued the full balance  on the agreement is due. But 
Clydesdale has agreed to an arrangement to pay rather than pursue Mr K for the full 
amount owed. 
Although Mr K has been making his contractual  payments Clydesdale  hasnt added  
an arrangement to pay to his record in error.  Following the termination  of his contract 
the full balance became due and the remainder owing forms part of an arrangement 
to pay.
Clydesdale hasnt  acted unfairly and he will not be asking it to do any more.
Mr K remained unhappy.  He said he wasnt informed of the arrangement  to pay. 
Clydesdale has accepted it couldve been clearer about the arrangement to pay being 
applied on the account. And its offered to pay Mr K £200 compensation for this. Mr K hasnt 
accepted this offer. He doesnt think this is fair and still wants  the arrangement to pay 
removed from his credit file. Mr K has asked  for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has provided detailed submissions to support  his complaint including in a recent email. 
Ive read and considered them all. But my findings are expressed  in considerably less detail. 
And they focus  on what I think  are the main  issues.
Ref: DRN06062442Its clear that Clydesdale couldve handled  some  things  better  at times and its already 
removed a default it recorded on Mr Ks credit file.
That aside I dont think Clydesdale  has done anything wrong in recording information, 
including about  the arrangement to pay, on Mr Ks credit file. 
Clydesdale has an obligation  to record accurately the conduct of Mr Ks account  and I think  
its done so in this respect. When Mr Ks contract was terminated  the full amount outstanding 
became due. And when it didnt seek possession of the car it agreed Mr K could pay off what  
was owed over a period of time. That is an arrangement to pay. And so I consider it was 
obliged to record this on his credit file.
Taking everything into account  I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require  Clydesdale to 
amend Mr Ks credit file or remove the record of his arrangement to pay from it. 
But Clydesdale has accepted it couldve been  clearer in explaining this arrangement  to pay 
and what it meant. And its offered to pay £200 compensation for this. I think  thats fair and I 
cant ask it to pay any more. So, I simply leave it to Mr K to decide if he now wishes  to 
accept this offer.
Mr K has also recently raised  some new issues about what  hes been told on the phone 
particularly that hes been given incorrect advice  about his payments and the status of his 
account. But as these are new issues I cannot  deal with them  in this complaint. Mr K should 
raise them directly with Clydesdale in the first instance.
Overall although  I recognise  Mr Ks frustration and strength of feeling,  I dont  see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case. I simply leave him to 
decide if he now wants to accept Clydesdales recent offer of compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.  
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0606244