K821x#15Complaint
Mrs F has complained about a series of unsecured personal loans that she was provided 
with by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). She says Barclays  kept offering her a number  of 
credit facilities as part of her account.  She started off by taking a small manageable loan but 
was continually offered  further loans before having repaid what she already owed. 
Mrs F went on to say that she was never asked to provide any information  about her 
earnings and she was continually offered credit in circumstances where Barclays ought  to 
have seen that she was constantly  using her overdraft to cover her priority debts.
Background
As far as I can see, Mrs F was provided with five loans  by Barclays between December 2013 
and December 2017. For the sake of clarity,  Ive set out the sequence of Mrs Fs loans 
below. Her loan history  is as follows:
Loan Taken Repaid Amount Consolidation Received* Repayments APR
1 Dec 13 Oct 15 £10,500.00 None £10,500.00 36 @ £341.39 13.9%
2 Oct 16 Feb 17 £27,000.00 None £27,000.00 60 @ £615.12 13.9%
3 Feb 17 Jun 17 £42,000.00 Loan 2 £15,991.02 60 @ £976.61 14.9%
4 Jun 17 Outstanding £50,000.00 Loan 3 £8,536.23 60 @ £1,162.63 14.9%
5 Dec 17 Outstanding £1,700.00 None £1,700.00 36 @ £57.85 14.6%
* funds  advanced  to Mrs F.
Mrs F was also provided with an overdraft and credit cards by Barclays.  But as they dont 
form part of this complaint, I wont be looking at whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably when providing those products to Mrs F. 
In its response to Mrs Fs complaint, Barclays didnt agree its checks  were  inadequate. It 
said a number of factors such as Barclays account  history, personal details disclosed by a 
customer such as income  and financial commitments, credit rating, as well as other  factors 
are considered when  it decides to lend. And it didnt think that there was anything  to suggest 
that it shouldnt  have provided  these  loans to Mrs F. One of our adjudicators looked at      
Mrs Fs complaint and agreed  Barclays hadnt  acted unfairly when providing these loans. 
Mrs F disagreed and requested the matter be considered by an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
On 25 February 2020, I issued a provisional  decision setting out my initial  findings  on       
Mrs Fs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings.
Firstly, I summarised  the regulatory  framework,  relevant law and what  I considered to be 
relevant publications at the time (this is copied  in full in the appendix to this decision and I 
ask Barclays and Mrs F to read this again in order to give proper context  to this final 
decision).
In light of the relevant rules, law and publications, I explained that there  were  three  
overarching questions I needed to consider in order to decide  what was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  These were:
Ref: DRN058990821.Did Barclays,  each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  
itself that Mrs F would be able to repay  her loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mrs F wouldve been able to do so?
2.Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Barclays ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Fs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and so shouldnt 
have provided  her with further  credit?   
3.Did Barclays  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
In considering the first overarching question  whether Barclays completed  reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs F would be able to repay  her loans in a 
sustainable way  I explained  that the rules  and regulations throughout the time Barclays  
lent to Mrs F required it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether 
she could afford to repay any loan. 
I explained that any affordability  checks  had to be both borrower-focused and 
proportionate. So Barclays had to think more widely than simply whether it would get its 
money back from Mrs F. What Barclays needed  to do was think  about whether repaying  the 
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse  consequences for Mrs F. 
I also explained that what constitutes a proportionate affordability  check was dependent 
upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular  circumstances of the 
borrower (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
Even for the same customer,  a proportionate check could  look different for different loan 
applications.
In light of this, I provisionally found that a reasonable and proportionate check ought 
generally to have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN05899083I explained that there may also be other factors which could influence  how detailed a 
proportionate check should be for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any 
indications of borrower vulnerability and, any foreseeable changes  in future circumstances.  
I then proceeded  to look at the checks Barclays carried out at the time of the loans and 
considered whether they were proportionate. I started by saying I found Barclays  response 
to Mrs Fs complaint and what  it provided  to support its position to be very disappointing.  It 
disagreed its checks were inadequate and simply regurgitated details of what  its usual 
process would  involve. It relied on all the loan applications having  taken  place online and 
has also said it considered a number of factors such as Barclays account history, any 
personal details  disclosed - such as income  and financial commitments,  credit rating, as well 
as other  factors. 
There was no explanation of which, if any, of these checks were undertaken at each  of the 
loan applications  or what exactly these checks revealed about Mrs Fs financial 
circumstances at the respective times.  Indeed  it appeared to me that Barclays simply 
expected this service  to accept that all of Mrs Fs loans were affordable because its systems  
approved them. Considering Barclays said it gathered  sufficient information  to inform its 
lending decisions,  I thought that it was extremely disappointing Barclays  hadnt provided it to 
me. Equally I also found it disappointing  that Barclays  had been  unable to tell me what  it 
knew about Mrs Fs circumstances when she applied for her loans. 
I made  it clear that this service could not and would not look for evidence  and construct  an 
argument to support Barclays defence  of Mrs Fs complaint. If Barclays  couldnt  provide  the 
information it relied on and describe why this information showed  it was fair and reasonable 
to lend to Mrs F on each occasion,  then I couldnt and wouldnt reach  the conclusion  that its 
checks before providing these loans were proportionate. I said this while especially  mindful  
of the fact that in terms of loans 2 to 5, at least, it approved a number of applications for 
significant sums of money in a relatively short period of time.
Without any explanation from Barclays on this matter, I wasnt  prepared to take it as read its 
lending decisions were  fair. I invited Barclays to provide more detail on these points, its 
checks and what they showed, in its response  to my provisional decision. But as things 
stood, I was minded  to find that Barclays hadnt  carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before providing any of these loans to Mrs F.  
As Barclays didnt carry out proportionate  checks for these loans, I cant say for sure what  
proportionate checks would more likely than not have  shown. So I needed to decide whether  
it was more likely than not that a reasonable and proportionate affordability check  wouldve 
told Barclays that it was unfair to offer these loans to Mrs F.
Mrs F had a current  account with Barclays. And to help us understand for ourselves what  
Barclays would more  likely than not have discovered  if it had completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks prior to providing  Mrs Fs loans, we asked Barclays to provide us with 
copies of her bank statements. 
Barclays provided the ledgers for Mrs Fs account,  which as I understood it detailed  all the 
account transactions. And even though I didnt know what  checks  Barclays  completed at the 
time, I thought it was perfectly reasonable for me to rely on these ledgers to ascertain          
Mrs Fs financial position at the time of the respective applications as Barclays was in 
possession of this information at the time. 
Ref: DRN05899084I started  by taking a look at Mrs Fs financial position at the time she was provided with loans 
1 and 2. I thought that a proportionate check for loans 1 and 2 would have  involved  finding 
out  for example  about Mrs Fs normal monthly  outgoings and regular financial 
commitments. 
Loan 1
Having considered the information contained  in Mrs Fs account ledgers, I didnt think  that a 
proportionate review of Mrs Fs financial circumstances, would have shown Barclays that it 
shouldnt have provided loan 1. 
I said this because while there were some  signs I was concerned about such as payments 
being made to a debt collection agency and Mrs F having a significant number of existing 
credit commitments,  it looked like the intention was for this loan to consolidate  some  of       
Mrs Fs existing debts.  Indeed Mrs Fs account  ledgers indicated thats precisely  what 
happened when  she received the funds. 
Equally although it appeared that Mrs F spent some  of the month overdrawn, it was clear 
that her monthly salary brought her account into credit and she did maintain a credit  balance 
for a reasonable period of time each month.  I was also mindful  that Mrs F didnt consider this 
loan to be unaffordable either.
So overall and having considered the information before me, I was satisfied that should  a 
reasonable and proportionate check have been  carried out before loan 1 was provided, this 
wouldnt have indicated  Mrs F would  more likely than not have had difficulty repaying this 
loan. And it followed  that at that stage I was inclined to find that reasonable and 
proportionate checks wouldnt  have prevented Barclays from providing loan one to Mrs F. 
Loan 2
I noted Barclays referral to loan 1 having been  repaid  early.  But Mrs Fs account ledgers 
showed that she was only able to settle  this loan by using the proceeds from a loan of 
£13,500.00 which she took out with another provider in October 2015. So for the sake of 
clarity and the avoidance of doubt, I started by saying that I didnt think  Mrs Fs first loan 
being repaid early was in itself indicative of her being in a healthy financial position, or itself 
demonstrated that loan 2 was affordable.
Loan 2 was provided in October  2016.  It was for £27,000.00 and due to be repaid in monthly  
instalments of around £615 over a term of five years. So the payments for this loan were 
almost double that of loan one and Mrs F was committed to making these payments for a 
significantly longer  period.  
Much like at the time Mrs F applied for loan 1, I also thought that there were some significant  
warning signs about Mrs Fs overall financial position and her capacity to repay  further credit 
at the time of this loan. For example, I could see that Mrs F had four credit cards  including 
one with Barclays that were at their limit. Mrs Fs Barclays  credit  card looks  to have had a 
balance that was over its limit in six of the seven months leading up to loan 2. And this was 
despite Mrs Fs credit card limit being  increased  in August 2016. 
Mrs F also had catalogue shopping  accounts  and what looks  to be an outstanding loan for a 
hire purchase agreement too. Finally I was also concerned with Mrs Fs overdraft usage in 
the period leading up to loan 2 as well. Mrs F hardly ever saw a credit balance   her existing  
Ref: DRN05899085commitments immediately  swallowed  up her salary as soon as it was credited.  And it was 
my view that it ought to have been  apparent Mrs F was not using  her overdraft for occasional 
use  in fact she was reliant on it to meet her day-to-day living expenses.  And I made it clear 
that I would have expected this to have played an important part in Barclays decision on 
whether to provide loan 2 to Mrs F.      
That said while  there were some significant warning signs  about Mrs Fs overall 
indebtedness, her ability  to take on any more and her overall financial position, I was mindful 
that the purpose of this loan was recorded as debt consolidation. And, in these 
circumstances, there  may well have been an understanding that Mrs F was going to pay off 
her existing commitments and only have this loan payment going forward.  
Equally considering that Mrs F did repay a significant amount of existing debt after she was 
provided with loan 1, I didnt  think  it was unreasonable for Barclays  to proceed on the basis  
that Mrs F would do the same thing on this occasion.
All of this left me minded to find that while there  were clear warning signs that Mrs Fs 
financial position had worsened since loan 1 was provided, it nonetheless wasnt 
unreasonable to lend.   I thought that Mrs F had indicated shed settle  some  of her existing 
debts. Bearing  in mind  shed  done that previously and doing  so again would mean she would  
more likely than not be able to sustainably repay this loan, I was inclined to say reasonable 
and proportionate checks for loan two would more likely  than not have shown that it wasnt  
unfair for Barclays to provide this loan to Mrs F.
I then explained  why I didnt go on to recreate  affordability checks for loans 3 to 5. This was 
because in addition  to assessing the affordability of each individual  loan provided  to Mrs F 
by Barclays, I also thought it was fair and reasonable  to look at the overall pattern of lending. 
I was mindful that the relevant rules and guidance  made it clear  that a lender shouldnt 
continue lending where the loans  are unsustainable or otherwise harmful and/or its apparent  
that the customer may be experiencing  financial difficulties.
By this stage, Id already explained that while I thought there  were  some clear warning signs 
Barclays ought to have been  alert to when it provided loans 1 and 2  Mrs Fs worsening  
debt position and her living in her overdraft - I didnt  think I could say that the pattern of 
lending had, in itself, become demonstrably unsustainable or harmful   such  that I could 
reasonably say the facts spoke for themselves. This was mainly due to the fact that I was 
currently prepared to give Barclays  the benefit  of the doubt  and say it wasnt  unreasonable  
for it to believe Mrs F would use the funds advanced for loan 2 to reduce her debts 
elsewhere, rather than increase her overall indebtedness.
Looking at loan 3, though,  I didnt think that Barclays had any reasonable basis for 
concluding that Mrs F would be able to sustainably repay what  it was advancing.  I was 
minded to reach this conclusion for a number of reasons. 
Firstly Mrs F applied for additional amount of almost  £16,000.00  a mere four months after 
she was provided  with £27,000.00. In my view, this, in itself,  was a warning sign that Mrs Fs 
financial position  which, on any objective  measure, had worsened  between loan 1 and loan 
2  may well have worsened further after loan 2 had been advanced.
I also saw that while  Mrs F did pay off the outstanding balance on her credit cards  after she 
was provided with loan 2, her credit card accounts  were back around  their respective limits 
by the end of January 2017.  It appeared to me that she was only making minimum payments 
Ref: DRN05899086to these balances  and this included Mrs Fs credit  card with Barclays. Mrs Fs catalogue 
shopping balance  had also crept up too. 
Finally, Id also seen that Mrs F continually  remained overdrawn each month  too. Her salary  
would enter  her account on the final day of each  month. But then all of her bills and regular 
payments went out the following day once again leaving her substantially  overdrawn. I 
highlighted that Mrs F only ever saw a credit balance, on a temporary basis,  for one day 
each month  and spent  the rest of the time incurring additional overdraft fees and charges. 
And, in these circumstances, Barclays ought  reasonably to have  been  aware  of the 
likelihood Mrs F would only be able to make her loan repayments by using her overdraft and 
therefore borrowing  further.
I didnt think that Mrs Fs financial position had materially improved by the time Barclays 
provided her with loans  4 and 5 either. The balances on Mrs Fs existing accounts 
temporarily dipped  after Mrs F made  larger payments  after shed been in receipt of the funds 
from loan 3. But the balances soon increased back to the position they were in before. And I 
also saw that Barclaycard  increased the credit limit on Mrs Fs Barclays credit  card in the 
months leading  up to the application for loan 4. 
Indeed at the time Barclays provided  Mrs F with loan 5, with Barclays  alone she: 
already had an existing loan for £50,000.00, 
had a credit card with a limit of £2,500.00 which had a balance of almost £2,000.00 
on it; 
had an overdraft of £2,000.00 which she spent  most of the month in, despite 
Barclays own literature saying that this product was only to be used occasionally  and 
in the short-term.       
I simply couldnt see how and why Barclays could reasonably have  believed  that Mrs F 
would be able to sustainably repay  this lending when the information it had in front of it 
suggested the opposite was far more likely. Mrs Fs borrowing  history  with Barclays  
demonstrated a clear inability to repay what she owed without borrowing further. And her 
debt with Barclays alone had grown  to an unsustainable level.  It was clear that Mrs F debts 
were spiralling and these additional loans  were unfairly increasing Mrs Fs indebtedness  to 
an unsustainable level. 
To put this into context,  I pointed out that when Barclays provided Mrs F with loan 2 she was 
required to make 60 monthly payments of around  £616. This increased to 60 monthly 
payments of almost £980 for loan 3 and 60 payments of approaching £1,200.00  by the time 
of loan 4. And by the time of the final loan Mrs F was required to make  additional  payments  
of around £60 a month on top of the £1,200.00 she was already committed to as well as 
payments to her credit card and her overdraft. 
Indeed it seemed to me the only reason Barclays might have stopped lending to Mrs F, 
when it did, was because  it stopped  receiving  payments from her when they reached a level 
where she simply couldnt make them anymore.  Mrs F might have had a relatively high 
salary. But it was clear from the information  Barclays had that she her expenditure was 
correspondingly high and I thought  that she was reliant on credit  in an attempt to meet  her 
commitments.
Ref: DRN05899087In these circumstances, I couldnt  see how or why Barclays could reasonably have believed 
these loans werent unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mrs F and didnt unfairly and 
excessively increase her overall indebtedness. From this perspective,  having carefully 
considered everything, I found  that Barclays ought fairly and reasonably  to have realised any 
further lending  was unsustainable and harmful  for Mrs F by the time it provided loan 3. 
So given all of Barclays obligations  and what I thought was fair and reasonable taking into 
account the circumstances and everything Id covered,  I thought that Barclays acted unfairly 
in providing Mrs F with loans 3 to 5.
Finally I considered the third of the overarching questions that I thought  were  relevant to my 
determination of Mrs Fs complaint. And having  done so, I hadnt  seen  anything  that led me 
to conclude Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs F in some other way.
All of this led to me issuing a provisional  decision which found that:
Barclays didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs F to satisfy 
itself that she was able to repay  any of these  loans; 
it wasnt the case reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not 
have individually shown Mrs F was unable to sustainably  make  the repayments  for 
loans one and two;
Barclays ought  fairly and reasonably to have realised that the loans from loan 3 
onwards were unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mrs F and were unfairly and 
excessively increasing  her overall  indebtedness; 
Barclays didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs F in some other way.
So overall my provisional decision  found  that Barclays had not acted  fairly  and reasonably to 
Mrs F when  providing her with the loans from loan three  onwards.  
I then went on to consider  whether Mrs F suffered adverse consequences as a result of 
Barclays unfairly giving her loans 3 to 5. I did think this was the case because  these loans 
had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Mrs Fs indebtedness to Barclays by excessively 
increasing her indebtedness. I thought Mrs F ended up having to commit more and more of 
her income towards the monthly payments  until it reached a stage where she simply couldnt  
afford to continue doing so. 
Id already spoken about the impact this had on her ability to meet her other essential 
commitments. And I also thought that these loans being provided in these circumstances 
unfairly prolonged what was an adverse and precarious financial position for Mrs F.
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything provided and what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case,  I provisionally concluded  that Mrs F lost out 
because Barclays unfairly gave her loans 3 to 5, which  it ought  to have realised were 
unsustainable, harmful and unaffordable for her. 
I finally set out a method of putting  things right for Mrs F, which I found addressed Barclays  
failings and Mrs Fs resulting loss.
Barclays response to my provisional decision
Ref: DRN05899088Barclays responded to my provisional decision. Its response: 
apologised for the lack of detail provided  previously  and agreed  that it should  have 
provided this before  my provisional  decision;
accepted that with the benefit  of hindsight it could have done  more before providing 
loans 4 and 5 to Mrs F. But it maintained that it didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in 
providing loan 3;
said that as part of the terms of its Current Account, it collected monthly data from 
the Credit Reference Agencies to help it understand a customers creditworthiness. 
Adverse details such as missed  payments, the use of pay day loans, and similar 
details would prevent it from lending. This check was completed  on each application 
it received from Mrs F. There was no record of Mrs F struggling to repay  her creditors  
from this, as they were all up to date at the time of each application it received, with 
no adverse details for the previous 6 years. This again supports its decision to lend 
on each occasion.  
 
said the loan purpose Mrs F declared on each of her applications was used to form 
part of the eventual lending decision. Loan 3s purpose was recorded as being debt 
consolidation. This had worked out well for Mrs F after loan 1 and its agreed the 
decision to provide loan 2 was reasonable. This is important  because  this helped to 
shape the decision on loan 3;
argued that it was sensible  for Mrs F to consolidate existing credit into loan 3 
considering the APR was more favourable. While Mrs F didnt follow  the same 
economic behaviour  as she displayed after loan 1 and did increase her indebtedness 
at this point, it was still affordable for her to do so and the onus was on her to close 
her existing  lines of credit;
pointed out that Mrs Fs average  income in the months proceeding loan 3 placed  her 
in the top 5% of earners in the UK. The regular  expenditure calculated  was 
overestimated because it considered payments to credit that would no longer be paid 
as they were being consolidated into loan 3. But even with this overestimated 
monthly expenditure the loan repayment  for loan 3 only took up 42% of her monthly 
disposable income, which means  the loan was clearly affordable.      
Mrs Fs response to my provisional decision   
Mrs F confirming that she accepted that my provisional decision. And she made no further  
points for me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments provided from the outset, including 
the responses to my provisional decision,  in order to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account  the relevant law and regulations;  relevant 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; and relevant  codes of practice.  Ive set out all of 
this in the appendix to this decision.
Ref: DRN05899089Taking into account the relevant rules,  law and publications, I remain of the view that the 
three overarching  questions that I set out in my provisional decision are what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. These 
are:
1.Did Barclays,  each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  
itself that Mrs F would be able to repay  her loan in a sustainable way?
a.If so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
b.If not, would  those checks have shown that Mrs F wouldve been able to do 
so?
2.Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Barclays ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Fs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and so shouldnt 
have provided  her with further  credit?   
3.Did Barclays  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
Barclays hasnt challenged my conclusion that these  overarching  questions are relevant to 
me deciding  this complaint. Indeed, bearing in mind  its acceptance  of my findings on loans 4 
and 5 and my reasons for this, the content  of its response suggests its my findings on these 
matters in relation  to loan 3 that it disagrees  with.
I want to start by thanking  Barclays for the clarification it has provided on the checks in 
general that it carries out before approving an application. And before I go on to consider 
Barclays comments I do have a general observation about what  it has said in relation to 
Credit Reference Agency  information. Specifically it has said:  
Barclays collect  monthly data from the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) to help us 
understand a customers creditworthiness.  Adverse  details such  as missed payments, using 
of pay day loans, and similar details prevent us from lending  to customers. This check was 
completed on each  application  we received from Mrs F. There  was no record of Mrs F 
struggling to repay her creditors from this, as they were all up to date at the time of each 
application we received,  with no adverse details for the previous 6 years.  
I set out in my provisional decision that Mrs Fs credit card with Barclays  appears  to have 
had a balance  that was over its limit in six of the seven months leading up to loan 2. And this 
was despite Mrs Fs credit  card limit being increased in August  2016.  I (and I think  most 
reasonable observers would)  consider information recorded about a borrower exceeding  
their credit limit  especially over such  an extended period - to constitute  adverse 
information. 
I dont agree with Barclays view that the mere existence of adverse  information on a 
consumers credit file, in itself, should  automatically prevent a lender from providing  
additional lending.  But I am concerned that Barclays is arguing that the veracity  and 
robustness of its checks and process, in itself,  resulted in a fair lending decision being made 
even though it doesnt appear to have followed  its process in one of the loans it says was 
fairly and reasonably provided. 
Ref: DRN058990810In any event, notwithstanding Barclays apparent failure to follow its own processes, I need  
to decide whether reasonable  and proportionate checks would more  likely than not have 
shown Barclays that Mrs F would be able to repay  loan 2 in a sustainable way. And for the 
reasons Ive explained, on pages 4 and 5 of this decision  (as well as my provisional decision 
of 25 February 2020),  on balance, I dont think that reasonable  and proportionate checks  
would more likely than not have shown that Mrs F wouldnt have been able to sustainably  
make the payments to loan 2.       
I now turn to Barclays comments regarding loan 3. 
As I understand it, Barclays accepts that it ought  to have realised it was increasing Mrs Fs 
overall indebtedness in a way was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have 
provided her with loans  4 and 5. But while Mrs Fs overall indebtedness may have increased 
after loan 2, it wasnt unfair for it to have provided  loan 3, even though  this increased her 
indebtedness further, because the monthly repayments were clearly  affordable.  It has 
referred to Mrs Fs monthly income placing her in the top 5% of wage earners in the UK and 
it having relied on Mrs F saying this loan would be used to consolidate debt,  which she did 
do after taking loan 1 when the same  loan purpose  was recorded during the course  of that 
application. 
Ive thought about what Barclays  has said. But I think its important for me to explain that 
Barclays was required to establish whether Mrs F could sustainably make  her loan 
repayments. In my view,  this is wider than simply establishing any loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis. Of course, the loan payments being 
affordable in this way is a reasonable starting point  for establishing a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this will always be the 
case.
This is because CONC (which was in place at the time loan 3 was provided) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender ought  
reasonably to realise a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably, if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  I dont think 
that Barclays took account of this when providing loan 3.
I explained, in my provisional decision,  that while  Mrs F did pay off the outstanding balance  
on her credit  cards after she was provided with loan 2, her credit card accounts were back 
around their respective  limits by the end of January 2017. Barclays arguments appear to 
suggest that its expenditure estimation was based  on Mrs F continuing  to make the 
payments she had been making. But she was clearly only making  minimum payments  to 
these balances and this included Mrs Fs credit  card with Barclays.  These minimum 
payments werent  enough for the balance to be cleared within  a reasonable period of time. 
So, in my view, the figures Barclays used to estimate Mrs Fs expenditure were  flawed. 
Ive also considered Barclays argument  that the onus was on Mrs F to close her existing 
lines of credit. For the avoidance of doubt,  I want to be clear in saying that I did not and Im 
still not saying  that Barclays needed  to close down Mrs Fs existing lines of credit.  Clearly  it 
didnt have the authority to close the accounts  Mrs F held with other providers. And in the 
case of the other lines of credit Mrs F held with Barclays,  Ive been clear  in saying that they 
havent formed part of this complaint. So Ive not looked into whether Barclays  had grounds 
to close those accounts and therefore make no comment upon those matters here. 
Ref: DRN058990811What Im saying here is that Barclays was aware that rather than reducing, Mrs Fs debt had 
increased considerably  in the period after loan 2 was provided. Mrs Fs outstanding balances 
on her existing credit were substantial. The failure  of loan 2 to at least stabilise Mrs Fs 
financial position was indicative of a pattern of providing further credit causing substantially  
more debt. 
So I think that Barclays ought to have placed more weight on this more  recent  pattern, which 
in my view while emerging before loan 2 had been  provided was now established,  when 
considering whether to provide loan 3. It should  have  done this rather  than assumed that 
Mrs F would do the same  as she did after she was taking  loan one, which was provided  
more than three years before, when  her debts were smaller and involved a quarter of the 
amount now being  advanced. In my view,  increasing  Mrs F debt by such a considerable 
amount so soon  after loan 2 had been  provided,  in these circumstances, was unsustainable.     
Finally, I think  Barclays has overlooked that Mrs F continually remained overdrawn each 
month too. As Ive explained, her salary would enter her account  on the final day of each 
month. But then all of her bills and regular payments went out the following day once  again  
leaving her substantially overdrawn. I highlighted that Mrs F only ever saw a credit balance, 
on a temporary basis, for one day each month  and spent the rest of the time incurring 
additional overdraft  fees and charges. 
So Barclays  failed to take account  of the fact that Mrs F was likely to make her loan 
repayments from her overdraft and therefore  borrowing further.  Again, in my view, this 
means that Barclays ought to have realised that loan 3 was simply unsustainable for Mrs F.
Having carefully thought  about all of Barclays further points, I remain  of the view Mrs Fs 
complaint about  loan 3 (as well as loans  4 and 5) should be upheld.  So I think that Barclays  
should put things right for Mrs F. And Ill now set out what  Barclays should do.
Fair compensation  what  Barclays  needs  to do to put things right for Mrs F
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is 
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean Barclays  putting  Mrs F 
in the position shed  now be in if she hadnt  been  given  the loans Im upholding.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mrs F 
was given the loans in question and she used the funds   albeit in reality  shes effectively 
used a substantial  proportion of what was advanced to repay previous loans. So, in these 
circumstances, I cant  undo  whats already  been  done. And its simply not possible to put 
Mrs F back in the position she would  be in if she hadnt been  given loans  3 to 5 in the first 
place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Barclays  to put things right in the 
following way.
As Ive explained, the main effect of Barclays lending to Mrs F in the way that it did is that it 
left her in a position  where she wasnt able to properly  settle  her debt. This was because   
Ref: DRN058990812Mrs F kept having to find additional funds to pay the substantially increasing payments to her 
Barclays loans. And then she had to borrow  again  from Barclays as making the payments 
was preventing her from meeting her other  commitments, which  meant that her overall 
indebtedness substantially increased until she ended up defaulting. 
The amount  Mrs F defaulted on was inflated because of paid and unpaid interest and 
charges on loan 3 - which shouldnt have been provided and which  led to a larger  amount 
being advanced for loan 4 - and interest and charges on loans 4 and 5. I dont think its fair 
and reasonable to expect Mrs F to pay the extra when  she shouldnt  have  been  provided 
with these loans  in the first place. So, in order to put things right in this case, I think  that 
Barclays needs to ensure  Mrs F is left in the position  where she only needs to pay back the 
money she actually received on loans 3 to 5. So it should  add up the total amount advanced 
on loans 3 and 5 to the amount  Mrs F was given (as new funds)  for loan 4. 
The payments Mrs F made  to loans 3,4 and 5 should be deducted from this. This will then 
leave a new outstanding balance. I understand that Barclays has been accepting  affordable  
repayments to what  Mrs F owes through a debt management plan.  Barclays  should continue  
accepting these payments  for the remaining period that this plan remains  in place. 
Once the plan ends  Barclays should consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
write off any balance that remains  taking into account whether there is any prospect of it 
being repaid within a reasonable period  of time.  As this may well conclude with Mrs F not 
having repaid  the capital she was originally advanced and shes  in a debt management  plan, 
Im not making any direction in relation  to Mrs Fs credit file.    
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision  of 25 February 2020, Im 
upholding Mrs Fs complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to settle Mrs F complaint in the 
way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN058990813Appendix  relevant considerations as set out in my provisional decision
A The regulatory framework 
B Other relevant publications  including good industry practice
C Barclays own information
A The regulatory framework
Regulation by the Office  of Fair Trading  (up to 31 March  2014)
Barclays gave Mrs F her first loan in the period  up to the end of March 2014. During this time it held a 
standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading  (OFT), which permitted it to carry out consumer 
credit activities.
Section 25(2)  of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 set out the factors the OFT had to consider when 
deciding whether  to grant a consumer credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1)In determining whether  an applicant for a licence is a fit person for the purposes of this 
section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be relevant  including  
(amongst other things) 
(a)the applicant's  skills, knowledge and experience  in relation to consumer credit 
businesses, consumer hire businesses  or ancillary credit businesses;
(b)such skills, knowledge  and experience  of other persons who the applicant 
proposes will participate in any business that would be carried on by him under 
the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement  in connection  
with any such business;
(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence is evidence tending to show that the applicant, or any of the applicant's  
employees, agents or associates  (whether past or present) or, where  the applicant is a 
body corporate, any person appearing  to the OFT to be a controller  of the body 
corporate or an associate  of any such person, has
(a)committed any offence involving fraud or other dishonesty  or violence;
(b)contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it relates  to 
the consumer credit  jurisdiction under  that Part;
(iii) any other enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or other 
transactions with individuals;
(c)contravened any provision in force in an EEA State which corresponds to a 
provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph (b);
(d)practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or national  
origins in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; or
Ref: DRN058990814(e)engaged in business  practices  appearing  to the OFT to be deceitful  or 
oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether unlawful  or not) [my 
emphasis].
Section 25(2B) set out a direct example of the type of practice referred to in Section 25(2A(e))  and 
said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which the OFT may consider to be 
deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper  include practices in the carrying on of a 
consumer credit  business  that appear to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending [my emphasis].
In March 2010, the OFT sought to produce clear guidance on the test for irresponsible lending for the 
purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  And so it issued its guidance on 
irresponsible lending (ILG).
So I consider the ILG to be of central importance in reaching a fair and reasonable  outcome on Mrs 
Fs first loan.
The foreword to the guidance set out its purpose and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses  and 
consumer representatives as to the business practices that the Office  of Fair Trading (OFT) considers 
may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes of section 25(2B)  of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. It indicates types of deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper business 
practices which, if engaged in by a consumer  credit business, could call into consideration  its fitness 
to hold a consumer credit  licence.
Whilst this guidance represents the OFT's  view on irresponsible lending, it is not meant to represent 
an exhaustive list of behaviours and practices which  might constitute  irresponsible lending.
Section two of the guidance sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. 
Section 2.1 says:
In the OFT's view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer protection and fair 
business practice which apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says:
In general terms,  creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when  advertising, selling, or seeking  to 
enforce a credit agreement
make a reasonable  assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet repayments in 
a sustainable manner
explain the key features of the credit agreement to enable the borrower to make an 
informed choice
monitor the borrower's  repayment record during the course of the agreement, offering 
assistance where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty  and treat borrowers fairly  
and with forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations of lenders. Amongst other things,  it says:
Ref: DRN058990815In addition to the above there should be:
fair treatment  of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted with credit products that are 
clearly unsuitable for them,  subjected  to high pressure selling, aggressive or oppressive 
behaviour or inappropriate  coercion, or conduct which is deceitful,  oppressive, unfair or 
improper, whether unlawful  or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable by virtue of their current  indebtedness, poor credit 
history, or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in particular, not be 
targeted or exploited.
Section four of the guidance  is concerned  with the assessment of affordability that lenders were 
required to carry out before granting credit. Section 4.1 says:
In the OFT's view, all assessments of affordability should involve a consideration  of the potential for 
the credit commitment to adversely impact  on the borrower's financial  situation,  taking account of 
information that the creditor  is aware of at the time the credit is granted. The extent and scope of any 
assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, should  be dependent upon  and 
proportionate to  a number of factors (see paragraph 4.10 of this guidance document).
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' which involves a 
creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake  a specific  credit commitment,  or specific additional 
credit commitment, in a sustainable manner,  without the borrower incurring  (further)  financial 
difficulties and/or  experiencing adverse  consequences.
Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Whatever means and sources  of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment  of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than solely  
assessing the likelihood of the borrower  being able to repay  the credit in question.
We consider that before granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit,  or significantly 
increasing the credit limit under an agreement for running  account credit, creditors should  take 
reasonable steps  to assess a borrower's  likely ability  to be able to meet repayments under the credit 
agreement in a sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance. And Section 4.3 says:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit that can be repaid by the 
borrower:
without  undue difficulty   in particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness
over the life of the credit  agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within  a 
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings, without having  to realise  security or assets.
Section 4.4 goes on to describe undue difficulty and says:
The OFT would regard 'without undue difficulty' in this context as meaning the borrower being  able to 
make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that were  not reasonably 
foreseeable at the time the credit was granted):
while  also meeting other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings and
Ref: DRN058990816without  having to borrow  further to meet these repayments.
Building on the proportionality principle set out in section 4.1, section 4.10 deals with the issues that 
might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It includes  factors such  as:
the type of credit product;
the amount  of credit to be provided and the associated cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrowers financial  situation  at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history, including any indications of the borrower  experiencing (or 
having experienced) financial difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower
Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types and sources of information  that a lender might use to 
assess affordability, including:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained  from the borrower  through a form or a meeting
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible lending practices 
relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would include where  a lender 
is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable  assessment  of affordability  in an individual case  or cases
Section 4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient  information  to be able to reasonably assess affordability,  prior to granting 
credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided, or significantly increasing  the credit  
limit (in the case  of a running  account credit  agreement)
And Section 4.26 says a business would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability assessment, it is known, or 
reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders treatment of information disclosed  by the customer. 4.29 
says it would  be an unsatisfactory  business practice where a lender:
fail[s] to take adequate steps, so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure  that information on a 
credit application relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete  and correct.
Ref: DRN058990817And section  4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to:
[Accept] an application for credit under  circumstances in which it is known, or reasonably  ought  to be 
suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application for credit with regards 
to the information supplied relevant to inform  an assessment of affordability
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific  irresponsible lending  practices relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s)  have  been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory practice  
where a business is:
Failing to monitor  a borrowers  repayment record
Section 6.2 goes on to say:
The OFT considers that creditors  should take appropriate actionwhen/if there are signs of apparent 
/ possible repayment difficulties.
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
By the time of loan two and for all of Mrs Fs subsequent loans (1 April 2014 onwards) this 
requirement to assess creditworthiness moved to the rules  of the new regulator the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Barclays was authorised by the FCA at this time so it was subject to the FCAs 
rules in respect of consumer credit activities from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs  Principles  for Business set out the overarching  requirements which all authorised firms are 
required to comply  with.
PRIN 1.1.1G,  says
The Principles apply in whole  or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most  relevant principle here is PRIN 
2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules which apply to firms specifically  when carrying out credit related  regulated 
activities. CONC also replaced the requirements  set out in Section 55B. Bearing  in mind  the complaint  
before me, I think the most relevant sections of CONC  here are CONC 1 which sets out guidance in 
relation to financial  difficulties;  CONC  5 which  sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible 
lending; and CONC 6 which sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered  into a 
regulated agreement.
CONC 1.3G provides  guidance on financial  difficulty. It says:
In CONC (unless otherwise stated in or in relation  to a rule), the following matters, among  others, of 
which a firm is aware or ought reasonably to be aware, may indicate that a customer is in financial 
difficulties:
(1)consecutively failing to meet minimum repayments in relation  to a credit card or store  card;
(2)adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
Ref: DRN058990818(3)outstanding county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4)inability to meet  repayments  out of disposable income  or at all, for example,  where there is 
evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer having to borrow 
further to repay existing  debts, or the customer only being able to meet  repayments of debts 
by the disposal  of assets or security;
(5)consecutively failing to meet repayments when due;
(6)agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution;
(7)evidence of discussions with a firm (including a not-for-profit debt advice body)  with a view to 
entering into a debt management plan or other debt solution or to seeking  debt counselling
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment  between the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance  and 
the rules set out in CONC 5 and CONC 6. As is evident from the following  extracts, the FCAs CONC 
rules specifically  note and refer back to sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance  on 
many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a consumer a 
loan of this type. It says a firm must  consider:
(a)the potential for the commitments under the regulated  credit agreement to adversely impact  
the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which the firm is 
aware at the time the regulated  credit agreement is to be made;  and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability  of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the regulated 
credit agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end agreement, to make 
repayments within  a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes  guidance about proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  
the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit 
not being  sustainable directly relates to the amount  of credit granted and the total charge for credit 
relative to the customers  financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains  further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when  thinking about 
affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1)  says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm 
should take into account  more than assessing the customers ability to repay  the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
Ref: DRN058990819CONC 5.3.1G(2)  then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include 
the firm taking  reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments under  a 
regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box)  and 4.2 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4)  has a 
reference to paragraphs 4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers income 
and expenditure on a statement of those matters made  by the customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement  where  the firm 
knows or ought reasonably  to suspect that the customer has not been truthful  in completing the 
application in relation  to information supplied  by the customer  relevant to the creditworthiness  
assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
Ref: DRN058990820B Other relevant publications  including good industry practice
The ILG and CONC  set out the regulatory framework  that firms carrying out consumer  credit activities 
have to adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms.  And as Ive explained, Im also 
required to take into account  any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, and, where 
appropriate, what I consider  to have been good industry practice.
Barclays were subscribers  to the Lending  Standard Boards Lending  Code and currently subscribe to 
the Standards of Lending Practice which replaced it in July 2016.
The Lending Code 
Section 4 of the Lending Code is concerned  with Credit Assessments.  It says:
Personal customers 
50. Before lending any money, granting or increasing  an overdraft or other borrowing, subscribers 
should assess  whether  the customer  will be able to repay it in a sustainable manner. They  should  do 
this by considering the potential for the borrowing  to adversely impact the customers financial 
situation, information from CRAs, including existing  financial commitments where provided, as well as 
the following, as appropriate:  
 The type and amount of credit being sought;  
 How the customer has handled their finances in the past; 
 Any known future financial  commitments of the customer;  
 Any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to have a 
significant financial adverse impact on the customer; 
 Internal credit scoring techniques (if used by the subscriber); 
 The customers declared  income;  
 Why the customer wants to borrow the money and for how long; and 
 Any security  provided. 
51. Subscribers  should take a view on which  of the above factors it is appropriate to consider in any 
particular circumstance dependent on, for example,  the type and amount of credit being  sought and 
the potential risks to the borrower.  
52. Assessment may also include other  checks  that have not been  listed above.  
53. The requirement to consider information from CRAs does  not apply in specialist customer  
segments such as private banking where  use of CRA data may not be appropriate. 
54. Where income  is one of the factors considered when  assessing ability  to repay a personal  loan 
and the loan is agreed only if the income  of another person is taken  into account,  normally the loan 
should be provided on a joint and several  basis. However  there may be circumstances when  it is 
appropriate to provide a loan on a sole basis. 
55. Subscribers  should ensure they are familiar with the requirements of the Code Sponsors  Guide to 
Credit Scoring  and the explanations that need  to be given  to customers if credit scoring is used.  
56. If a lending  application  is declined following credit assessment, the subscriber  should explain the 
main reason why if asked by the customer. If the decline is as a result of information  obtained  from a 
CRA search, the subscriber should provide the customer with contact details for the CRA. 
The Standards of Lending Practice
The standards  relating  to assessing the affordability of credit are set out in the Product Sale section 
of the Standards  of Lending  Practice.  The relevant section says:
Ref: DRN0589908215. Before providing  any form of credit, granting or increasing an overdraft  or other borrowing, Firms  
should assess, from the information available  to the Firm at the time, whether  the customer  will be 
able to repay  it in a sustainable manner  without the customer  incurring financial  difficulty or 
experiencing significant adverse consequences. [CONC 5]  
There is also a section  on Money  Management  and paragraph 3 of this section says:
3. Firms should monitor customers credit card and overdraft limits to ensure that the customer  is not 
exhibiting signs of financial stress and where relevant, offer appropriate support.
Ref: DRN058990822C Barclays own information
Barclays own website has a section entitled Our lending  commitments and what we expect  from 
you. The first part of this information says:
As a lender, we have  a responsibility to act fairly and as part of this we have committed to follow 
the Standards of Lending Practice. This note sets out some of our key responsibilities and what we 
ask of you, to ensure that the relationship works  well for both of us.
We will lend responsibly and aim to provide a product that is affordable for you.
We will provide you with information about our products  and services and how they work, in a 
clear and understandable way, so that you can decide whats best for you and your needs.
We will endeavour to make sure our products and services offer, wherever possible,  the flexibility 
to meet your needs.
We will treat you fairly and reasonably at all times and make sure that you are provided with a 
high level of service.
If you tell us about any inaccuracies, for example around the personal  information we hold about 
you, we will act quickly  to put it right.
We will always aim to help you if we see, or you tell us, that you are having trouble  financially.  We 
will seek  to understand your overall circumstances, try and identify options that you can afford  
and where  appropriate,  provide a reference to free debt advice.
Barclays website also has a description of overdrafts. It says:
A short-term safety  net
Our overdrafts  offer a short-term way to borrow money  up to an arranged limit. We make  it easy  for 
you to work out how much  they could cost and provide a number  of ways to help you manage your 
money.
Mrs Fs overdraft renewal  letter also says:
Your limit
Your overdraft limit is £2000. Overdrafts offer a short-term  way to borrow money up to an
arranged limit for occasional use. You can make payments  out of your account up to this limit 
whenever you need,  but you should regularly  pay into your account  to reduce the amount you owe.  It 
may adversely impact  your credit rating if you go over your overdraft limit. Your overdraft is not to be 
used for the purchase of investments such as stocks  and shares.
Repayable on demand
Your facility is repayable  on demand. This means that you must  repay  everything you owe when we 
ask you to. Wherever possible, we will give you advance notice of repayment but we do not have to 
give advance notice.
Ref: DRN0589908