K822xcomplaint
Mrs T complains that she was given unsuitable  investment advice by Lawcomm Solicitors.
In summary,  she says:
she was advised  to sell her £185,000 (Prudential) With-Profits bond  and re-invest  in 
a self-select Individual Savings Account (ISA) and a General Investment Account 
(GIA); 
the adviser didnt  complete a fact find or suitability report;  
the adviser failed  to complete the required due diligence; 
the cost of investing wasnt  made  clear;
illustrations  werent provided; 
her complaint wasnt handled  appropriately.
background 
In my provisional decision of 3 July 2020, which forms part of this, my final decision, I said I 
was minded to uphold  the complaint. I said:
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite  the absence  of a fact find 
and suitability letter Im not persuaded that the advice to surrender Mrs Ts bond and re-
invest in an ISA and GIA was suitable.  In other words, Ive seen no reason why Mrs T was 
advised to surrender her existing bond and its likely  that her circumstances werent 
considered. 
This was a recommendation to cancel  an existing investment and re-invest the proceeds in a 
different product, and so the adviser had a clear responsibility to actively  consider and 
explain the potential  advantages and any disadvantages of doing  this which I dont  think was 
done. In other words,  Im not persuaded that Mrs K was given sufficient information that 
explained the risks involved.
Its possible that this was a churn   that is advice to change to a similar product that 
provides no clear benefit to the customer but allows the business to earn commission   
which is primarily what Mrs T seems to suggest  the adviser did. 
Im conscious not all cases,  where  there is advice to change  to a similar  investment, involve 
churning. An adviser can have good reasons for advising a change even into a similar 
investment. But in this instance, it seems the old bond matched  Mrs Ts objectives and she 
was broadly happy with it, so there needed to be strong reasons for the recommending  
surrender and re-investment, given the additional  charges. Im mindful that she says she 
was very reluctant  to follow the advice.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that there were such  
reasons to recommend encashing  the bond  and I dont think the advice to reinvest  in an ISA 
and GIA was suitable in light of the overall  circumstances.
If after meeting with the Lawcomm adviser Mrs T was unhappy with the performance of her 
bond, the advisor shouldve explored  other more cost-effective options  including changing 
the investment  mix before  recommending  the surrender of this bond. Even if the new 
investments were likely  to potentially perform  better, Ive seen no evidence  that she was 
Ref: DRN02828982likely to recoup her costs.  In other  words,  if Lawcomm thought that Mrs T needed to reduce 
her exposure to equities  this couldve potentially been done in other ways. 
Im mindful of Mrs Ts comments, but despite what she says, on balance I think  its more 
likely (than not) the suitability report, KFD and illustration  were provided to her. I note Mrs T 
is adamant she didnt  receive any of these documents and I may be wrong about this. 
But I think its unlikely that not one single  one of these documents would have been provided 
to her  Im mindful of the letter  from Lawcomm  dated June 2018 that Mrs T provided.  Im 
also satisfied that a number of these  documents including  the KFD and the suitability report  
wouldve made clear the commission  and fees. But given the redress  Im going  to propose I 
dont think this issue matters in the overall  scheme of things.  
On the face of the evidence, I cant safely say that Mrs T shouldve been  advised to move  
the funds within her bond or surrender it or reinvest the money  in an equally-suitable product 
with better  investment potential. Nor can I safely say for sure what  she would have done, if 
given appropriate  advice.
Nevertheless, in light of what Mrs T says, it seems  she surrendered  the ISA and GIA 
following advice from her new adviser  and received back the sum of £182,900, and thats 
primarily why she now wants a refund of the balance of her capital  as well as investment 
loss. 
Im mindful that despite acknowledging the investigators view Lawcomm hasnt formally  
objected to the investigators  findings. And despite being given a reasonable amount  of time 
and opportunity it hasnt  responded,  so Im content to proceed in the circumstances. 
In the circumstances I think compensation should  be based  on the value of her old bond if 
she had kept it, until the date she chose  to surrender the ISA and the GIA. 
The compensation should also include any fees paid to Lawcomm  to start the new 
investments (unless  deducted from the investment amount  in which  case itll be taken 
account of in the calculations) because Mrs T wouldnt have incurred these fees if she hadnt 
invested in the first place. The compensation should also include the reasonable cost of 
advice about her options moving forward.. 
Mrs T responded and accepted my decision  but made the following observation:
She was advised  to cash in her £200,000 Prudential investment.  
oShe had originally invested  £150,000  and made a £50,000 profit.  
She reinvested £185,000 through Lawcomm.  
On 3 August  2020, Lawcomm also responded and said it apologises for the delay in replying 
but there is one figure its trying to quantify and should be able to confirm its response to us 
in the next day or so. To date it hasnt provided any new submissions despite being  chased 
to do so by the investigator. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN02828983Having done so, considering the responses from the parties, my conclusion  regarding the 
uphold remains as set out previously, and for the same reasons. 
I appreciate the point  made by Mrs T about the value  of the Prudential bond at the time of 
surrender (£200,000),  but the £185,000 I referred to is the value of what she re-invested 
through Lawcomm.  
So that its clear, when I said Lawcomm Solicitors should compare the value of Mrs Ts ISA 
and GIA at the date of surrender, with the nominal value of her old bond at that time, if she 
had not surrendered it, I meant the £185,000  because thats what she re-invested from her 
old bond and not the entire £200,000. 
Ive no doubt Lawcomm will have noted  this too and will use the correct figures to calculate 
any redress thats due. 
In this instance, notwithstanding  what Mrs T says, I dont consider  that any new points have 
been raised, other than those key points  already  made  and considered by me in my 
provisional decision. In other words, Ive considered all the points that I consider relevant  to 
my decision.  
Lawcomm hasnt provided any new submissions  despite being given a reasonable amount 
of time to do so  so my decision  remains unchanged.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I uphold this complaint.  
Lawcomm Solicitors should  compare  the value of Mrs Ts ISA and GIA at the date of
surrender, with the nominal value of her old bond  at that time  which is £185,000  if she 
had not surrendered it.
This value  may include any market  value adjustments, annual and terminal bonuses  which
would have been applied to her bond.  If the value of her old bond  would  have been  higher,
the business should pay the difference between the two sums  and add 8% simple interest
per annum  to this amount  from the date of surrender  of her new bond  to the date of
settlement of this complaint.
Lawcomm Solicitors should  also pay:
The reasonable cost of advice  to reinvest Mrs Ts money,  subject to the production of 
an invoice. 
Any fees Mrs T paid Lawcomm Solicitors for the unsuitable advice unless deducted 
from the investment  amount.
£250 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020..
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0282898