K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  will not refund a disputed  
transaction.
background
In August  2018  Mr B complained to Halifax about  an online transfer which  had left his 
account.  The amount  of the transfer  was £730.   Mr B told Halifax  he had never  set up online 
banking and was not able to use a computer.  He also had not registered for telephone  
banking.
Halifax looked into the transfer and noted that Mr B seemed to have set up online banking 
on the day he opened the account.  He had also logged into his account on a number of 
occasions  the IP address all being relatively local to his home address.
When the transfer was made online,  a new payee  had to be set up.  This  was authenticated  
by confirming Mr Bs instructions on the telephone number Halifax had registered for him.  It 
said Mr B confirmed, via this number, that he wanted the transfer to go ahead.
Halifax also reminded Mr B he had made a complaint  about  other  disputed  transactions 
made between August  2017 and June  2018.   Halifax had refunded  these transactions into 
his account.  Mr  B had then spent some of the funds and the remaining funds were the 
subject of the transfer.
But Mr B said he hadnt complained about  any other transactions  just the online transfer.
Halifax sent its final response to Mr B in November 2018.  It declined his claim for a refund, 
but it did offer him £100 for the delay in dealing with his complaint.
When our investigator looked  into the complaint, she didnt think  she could ask Halifax  to do 
anymore - so, Mr B asked  for an ombudsmans decision.  He  said his benefits  were paid into 
this account and he had found himself without any funds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note our investigator dealt with the second  claim for disputed transactions  made  by Mr B 
and which  Mr B denies.  Ive not commented on these in this decision because I note the 
subject of this complaint  was the online transfer.   I didnt think the disputed second claim 
would help me in reaching my decision.
Generally speaking, if the evidence shows its more likely than not that Mr B authorised  this 
transaction, Halifax is entitled to hold him liable for them.  The relevant rules are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017.
However, authorisation has two limbs  authentication  and consent.   So, Halifax  need to 
show the transaction was authenticated as well as showing Mr B consented to it.
Ref: DRN09662462Authentication, in terms of the online transfer,  can be shown  by the correct details and 
credentials being used to log into online banking.   Halifax  has been  able to show Mr Bs 
correct details were entered  so Im satisfied the transfer was authenticated.
Turning to the issue of consent, for the following reasons I am satisfied Mr B consented to 
the transfer:
-online banking on Mr Bs account was set up on the same day he opened the 
account.  I think its more likely  than not that he set this up himself;
-following the setting  up of online banking, it was accessed a number of times up to 
the date of the disputed transaction;
-there had been previous online transfers  made  on Mr Bs account which he has not 
disputed;
-the IP addresses  for the log ins were relatively close to Mr Bs address so I think its 
more likely than not that Mr B was accessing  his account;
-on the day of the transfer, a new payee  was set up.  This required enhanced  
authentication by contacting Mr B on the phone number registered for him.  Halifax  
received a positive  response;
-Mr B says he had no visitors  to the house  apart  from his elderly  mother.  I think its 
unlikely she authenticated the transfer.
So, for these reasons,  I wont be asking Halifax to refund this money to Mr B.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 November  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0966246