K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited unfairly  declined  their 
home insurance claim for subsidence damage.
background
Mr and Mrs B reported a claim in November  2016,  for damage to their two-storey  extension 
and conservatory.  Mr and Mrs B bought the property  in about 2008.  At the time of purchase, 
a first-story extension at the rear of the property was already  in place having been built in 
1988. They  added a second storey to that existing extension in about 2010;  and the 
conservatory was built soon after.
Lloyds conducted  investigations and it concluded that the extension and conservatory were  
suffering from subsidence as result of clay shrinkage caused by nearby trees. However,  
Lloyds went on to decline the claim on the basis that, but for defective  foundations, the 
additional structures to the property wouldnt have subsided. Lloyds relied  on a policy 
exclusion contained within the terms which excludes any damage  caused by faulty 
workmanship, poor design, and defective or unsuitable materials.
Lloyds based  its decision on published  standards applied by builders of certain new homes. 
Lloyds said given the proximity of a nearby oak tree, the foundations should have been at 
least 1,600mm deep. However, the trial pits dug on site showed  the two-storey  extension 
foundations were only 1,000mm deep, and the conservatory foundations 250mm  deep.
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy with Lloyds  decision  and they made a complaint.  In doing so, 
they first engaged  a solicitor who wrote to Lloyds. In response, Lloyds explained that its 
decision remained unchanged, but Mr and Mrs B could  provide their own independent  
surveyors report which Lloyds would consider. 
Mr and Mrs B went on to obtain a report from a structural  engineer.  The report accepted that, 
in accordance with the guidelines Lloyds had relied  on, the foundations ought to have been 
1,600mm deep.  However,  the engineer noted  the first-storey extension  had already been 
built at the time Mr and Mrs B bought  the property, and it had been approved by the local 
authority under building  regulations  as was the second storey they later built.  So, the 
engineer didnt think their claim  had been  fairly declined. 
The engineer thought  that the only viable  option for the extension would be underpinning the 
foundations. In respect of the conservatory,  the engineer noted that due to the extremely 
shallow nature of the foundations he was of the view it needed to be demolished  and 
reconstructed on suitably designed foundations.
Mr and Mrs B referred their complaint to this service, where it was considered  by one of our 
investigators. Our investigator didnt think  the complaint should be upheld. To summarise,  
she thought Mr and Mrs Bs builder ought  reasonably to have  considered the depth of the 
foundations before adding  a second  storey to the extension and building  the conservatory.
Ref: DRN00103762Lloyds told our investigator that based on the standards  its relying  on, and the proximity of a 
hawthorn tree thats the same age of the property and closer  to it than the more mature oak 
tree, the extensions  foundations depth should  have been 2,100mm  and the conservatory 
foundations 2,500mm  rather than the 1,600mm previously quoted. In her assessment 
letter, our investigator quoted the higher depths, but without explaining the figures were 
based on the hawthorn tree.
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy with our investigators  conclusions, so their complaint  has been 
passed to me to decide. Mr and Mrs B also appointed  a loss assessor to act on their behalf.  
The loss assessor  has provided an email  and a letter from Mr and Mrs Bs local council that 
confirms the foundations were inspected by building control in 1989 and considered 
adequate in respect of complying with the appropriate building regulations.
The loss assessor  also questioned why we hadnt  conducted our own investigations into the 
depth of the foundations and the relevance  of the standards being applied  by Lloyds given 
the years  the extensions  and conservatory  were  built. He also provided a further  building  
structure survey report, which noted:
-The conservatorys foundation depth is 250mm,  and this is clearly inadequate.  There  
was no need for a building control inspection due to its size. However, the builder of 
the conservatory should have made  adequate foundation provisions to negate the 
effects of the oak tree. Its clear  the conservatory foundation was poorly  designed 
and not fit for purpose.
-The local council has confirmed that the extensions foundations were  assessed by a 
building control  officer in April 1989  during its construction, and they were found to be 
adequate. The foundations are now not to an adequate  depth  due to the influence of 
the tree roots in the clay sub soil. However, this does not indicate a failure  in design 
at the time.
I issued my provisional decision in June 2020.  I explained I intended to uphold  the complaint 
about the two-storey extension, but not the conservatory. I also explained that I intended  to 
decide Lloyds  should cover Mr and Mrs Bs engineer fees and pay them  compensation due 
to the claim delays. In my provisional  decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds doesnt  dispute that Mr and Mrs Bs extension and conservatory are suffering from 
subsidence, which their home insurance  policy covers. So, what  I need to decide  here is 
whether the policy  exclusion  Lloyds has applied  in order to decline  the claim has been 
applied fairly.
Mr and Mrs Bs loss assessor has questioned why this service hasnt investigated the depth 
of the foundations. However, thats  not our role here. Its for the parties  to the complaint  to 
make their submissions, which we will then consider in order  to decide what  we are more  
persuaded by  or, we may decide  we require more information to be provided. 
Ref: DRN00103763Lloyds commissioned a specialist to undertake investigations at the property, including three 
trial pit holes  to determine the depth of the foundations. Ive not seen anything  that leads me 
to doubt the credibility of that report, and nor has any contradictory information  been 
submitted. Therefore, I consider it reasonable to accept the depths reported.
I will set out my provisional findings under  the following four headings:  extension,  
conservatory, report costs, and delays.
extension
In my view, its not unreasonable for a business  to look towards good industry practice when 
determining what ought to have happened; and I understand the standards Lloyds is relying 
on were first published before the first-storey extension was built.  However,  there are other 
considerations here that persuade me Lloyds claim decision, in respect  of the extension,  
wasnt fair or reasonable.  
The policy terms dont stipulate the foundations of the home need to be a certain depth or 
comply with the standards Lloyds is applying.  Theres  also no suggestion that the first or 
second storey extensions  were subject to these  standards when they were built.  So, the 
builder wasnt under an obligation to take them into account. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs B have provided information  that supports both storeys were subject 
to planning regulation and control;  and Lloyds hasnt provided anything  that suggests  the 
1,000mm depth  was non-compliant  at the time of the two builds. 
Im conscious the second-storey was added to the existing extension in about 2010, but the 
completion inspection  wasnt undertaken until March 2016. Mr and Mrs B have  explained 
that they werent aware they needed  a completion certificate at the time, but the council 
inspected the building  at every stage,  and they thought  that was all that was required. 
However, they commenced  an extension to the front of the house  in about 2015,  and 
through that process they became aware  they needed a completion  certificate  for the 
second-storey extension  at the rear. Therefore, they applied  for this. I accept what                    
Mr and Mrs B say here.
So, taking everything  into consideration, Im not persuaded  that Lloyds can reasonably  say 
the extension  wasnt built properly, or fairly rely on a general policy  exclusion for faulty  
workmanship and poor design. Therefore, I intend to decide Lloyds needs to deal with            
Mr and Mrs Bs claim for their extension.
conservatory
Its my understanding the conservatory  was exempt  from building control,  and as such,  the 
same arguments cant be made  about  regulations being followed  in terms of it being  
designed and built properly.
Furthermore, all the experts  that have reported accept the conservatory foundations were  
insufficient at the time it was built  including  the two experts who provided reports for         
Mr and Mrs B.
Therefore, Im persuaded Lloyds  can fairly decline the conservatory  due to faulty  
workmanship and poor design.
Ref: DRN00103764report costs
Im conscious that Mr and Mrs B have engaged several parties to support them with their 
claim and complaint. They havent raised  these costs with us, but for completeness  I will 
consider them here.
Mr and Mrs B engaged a solicitor to make their complaint to Lloyds, and they later appointed  
a loss assessor to represent them whilst  we considered the matter.  However, in my opinion, 
I cant reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for these fees given professional representation 
wasnt needed to make a complaint or have one considered by our service.
Mr and Mrs B also appointed an engineer to support their claim, after it was declined. Given  
Im not persuaded Lloyds fairly declined their claim, I consider it fair for Lloyds to cover  this 
report cost, plus 8% simple interest from when it was paid for. So, when responding to my 
provisional decision, Mr and Mrs B should provide evidence  to show the amount paid.
However, in respect  of the further  report the loss assessor commissioned, its not my opinion 
that Lloyds should be responsible for this cost. I say this because the complaint was already 
with us, and the report  wasnt  requested or needed by us.
delays
I understand Mr and Mrs B first made  their claim in November 2016,  but it wasnt declined 
until February 2018. 
In January 2018, Lloyds paid Mr and Mrs B £450 for the delays up to that date  and those  
delays were considered  by our service under a separate complaint. So, its not appropriate 
here for me to consider the delays between the claim  registration  and the declinature. 
However, further delays  have now been caused  by the February 2018 claim decision,  which    
I intend to decide wasnt fair or reasonable. Mr and Mrs B havent said the ongoing  issues  
have had an impact on them,  but nonetheless, Im persuaded a further  two-year  delay of 
living with the damage,  and uncertainty, would have  caused them a degree  of distress.  
Taking everything into consideration, I intend  to award Mr and Mrs B a further £500.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr and Mrs Bs loss assessor provided: 
-the scope  proposal and price estimate
-plans and drawings  regarding the required underpinning  of the property
-three invoices from the engineer
Lloyds disagreed with my provisional decision. It made the following points:
-My provisional decision relies on the policy document not stating what the depth of 
the foundations should be. This is an unreasonable position to take as it suggests 
that all potential exclusions  need  to be listed in the policy document  and general 
exclusions are not to be used. This would result in an infinitely longer policy 
document which would be of little benefit  to either  consumer or insurer.
Ref: DRN00103765-The second storey  addition  in 2010  was a material  alteration requiring careful design 
and adherence  to building regulation  provisions. The 2010 building  regulations  in 
terms of structural  stability  will have applied to the existing  foundations  and the 
existing structure  generally. 
-Its not the case that foundations suitable for a single  storey  extension  in 1988 would 
automatically remain suitable for effectively doubling the loadings on the foundations, 
by adding another storey. Unless the 1988  extension was built with foundations that 
were adequate to support a doubling of the load and to withstand  the effects of 
nearby vegetation,  then before construction was considered in 2010, someone 
competent in the design of foundations  should  have  investigated the situation. 
-The plans for the 2010 extension contained the caveat that care should  be taken to 
check the foundations prior to any work commencing. No evidence  has been 
provided to show such  checks took place, and if it did what  the results  were.
-The checks should have formed part of the basic design obligations in 2010  and they 
should have included: finding out the existing  construction, comparing it against good 
practice and if necessary,  designing  something  else if it was judged deficient. Finding 
out about the existing  construction is not just having  a look at a set of drawings from 
1988; its digging  a hole to find out what the builder  did. Theres  no evidence  such 
investigations happened and failure  within six years of construction points to the 
design of the second  storey  extension being ill thought out and its failure was 
foreseeable from the outset.
-A 1,000mm foundation supporting  a two-storey extension in highly plastic  soil, with a 
mature oak tree within influencing distance, isnt considered effective by 2010  (or 
1988) building regulation design  standards. The oak tree has a potential  mature 
height of 24m and pre-dates the house. If the proper investigations had been  
undertaken in 2010, it would have been  obvious underpinning  was required.
-The 2010 building regulations, that were in place  when the second-storey  extension  
was constructed,  contained a requirement for consideration  to be given to loading  
and ground movement. Theres no evidence these  were  considered  or approved.
-Those building regulations  also explain that in clay soils subject to volume change on 
drying, foundations  should be taken to a depth  where anticipated ground movements 
wont impair the stability of the building, taking due consideration of the influence  of 
vegetation and trees on the ground. They explain the depth  to the underside  of the 
foundations shouldnt be less than 750mm on low shrinkage clay soils,  900mm on 
medium shrinkage clay soils, or 1,000mm on high shrinkage clay soils  although 
these depths may need to be increased  in order to transfer the loading  onto 
satisfactory ground or where there are trees nearby.  
-The foundations  dont meet the basic 2010  building regulation criteria and theres  no 
evidence to suggest that the influence of trees on the ground were  taken 
into account.
Ref: DRN00103766-Other standards are also used  to guide  designers (such as those originally relied on 
by Lloyds when  quoting a foundation depth  of 1,600mm), and these too show that a 
1,000mm deep foundation  in this situation  wont be ineffective. Theres  no evidence 
that the retrospective completion notice issued in 2016, six years  after completion, 
paid any attention to the adequacy of the foundations.
-Taking all the information into account,  the 2010  extension was inherently  defective 
in design, and therefore any claim engages the defective design exclusion and 
should fail. Its not the role of insurance to pay for wholly foreseeable claims.
-Mr and Mrs B have  a clear legal remedy against  either their building contractor or 
their designer. That would appear the appropriate route  for them  to take.  Seeking 
building control  'sign off' is a diligent measure,  but it doesnt then mean  that their 
building is free from defect, or that they are unable to pursue a claim against the 
building contractor.
-Lloyds carried out extensive technical  investigations during  this claim and the report  
provided by Mr and Mrs B offered nothing new to the claim, and it supported Lloyds 
findings that the foundations were  inadequate.  On this basis  it doesnt seem  fair or 
reasonable for Lloyds to pay the reports costs with 8% simple  interest.  Lloyds also 
considers the claim to have been  correctly  declined, so it doesnt  consider its 
responsible for any delays and doesnt  agree with any further award.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Neither party has disagreed with my provisional findings regarding  the conservatory  or 
provided any further information in respect of that part of the claim. Therefore, I wont  
comment further on the conservatory and my decision  about it remains the same.
It wasnt my intention  to suggest  that its unreasonable for an insurer  to rely on a general 
exclusion. However, the issue is not that Lloyds sought to rely on a general  exclusion for 
poor design or faulty workmanship, but rather,  it applied standards which the extension 
wasnt subject to at the time of construction. I remain of the view that such practice is 
unreasonable. In my opinion, if an insurer is to rely on such an exclusion it needs  to 
demonstrate the structure was poorly designed or built,  based on the standards or 
regulations that specifically  applied to it when it was built. 
Nonetheless, Lloyds  has now pointed towards the building regulations. Therefore, Ive given 
the applicable regulations,  in relation to the points Lloyds has made, consideration. 
Ref: DRN00103767Lloyds has referred to the increased loading caused by the second  storey addition, and the 
nearby trees. The regulations are made  up of requirements and supporting  guidance. The 
loading requirements explain  a building should be constructed so the loads are sustained 
and transmitted to the ground safely and without causing deflection or deformation  of the 
building, or ground  movement. The ground  movement requirements  explain a building 
should be constructed so ground movement  caused by subsidence will not impair the 
stability of the building.
Lloyds has specifically pointed towards  the guidance that supports the ground  movement 
requirements. The guidance that Lloyds  has pointed towards states:
-In clay soils subject to volume  change on drying  (shrinkable clays,  with Modified 
Plasticity Index  greater or equal  to 10%), strip foundations should be taken  to a depth 
where anticipated ground movements  will not impair the stability  of any part of the 
building taking due consideration of the influence  of vegetation and trees  on the 
ground. The depth to the underside  of the foundations on clay soils should  not be 
less than 0.75m on low shrinkage clay soils, 0.9m on medium  shrinkage clay soils 
and 1.0m on high shrinkage clay soils, although  these  depths  may need to be 
increased in order  to transfer the loading onto satisfactory ground or where there are 
trees nearby.
The arboricultural report that Lloyds commissioned explains the supporting  clay subsoil is of 
predominately medium-high volume change  potential. Lloyds therefore  argues that, as per 
the guidelines, the foundation depths  needed  to have been deeper than 1,000mm to take 
account of loading and the nearby  trees.
However, Lloyds is referencing guidance that didnt apply at the time of the build. The above 
guidance wasnt introduced until three years later, in 2013.  The guidance that applied in 
2010 stated:
-In clay soils subject to volume  change on drying  (shrinkable clays,  with Plasticity 
Index greater than or equal to 10%), strip foundations should  be taken to a depth 
where anticipated ground movements  will not impair the stability  of any part of the 
building taking due consideration of the influence  of vegetation and trees  on the 
ground. The depth to the underside  of foundations  on clay soils should not be less 
than 0.75m, although this depth will commonly need to be increased  in order to 
transfer the loading onto satisfactory  ground.
So, the guidance in place  at the time the second  storey was built was foundations  should be 
at least 750mm deep, with the need to increase the depth to account for loading  and nearby 
trees. Therefore,  the question  here is whether its reasonable  for me to decide  that due 
consideration wasnt given, and the poor  design  policy  exclusion fairly  applies, as the 
depths were only 250mm  above the recommended minimum.
In my view, this case is finely balanced.  Irrespective of Lloyds quoting the wrong guidelines, 
given the nearby trees and the clay subsoil,  Lloyds make some  persuasive arguments that 
action should  have been taken, in terms of the foundations, before the second-storey was 
added. However,  on balance,  given  the foundation depths were  33% above  the minimum 
requirement at that time, Im not persuaded that I can reasonably decide consideration 
wasnt given to loading  or the nearby trees,  or it was unreasonable that Mr and Mrs B 
proceeded without  taking  further steps, such as underpinning.
Ref: DRN00103768I appreciate the point  Lloyds makes about  the structure failing within six years of the second 
storey being  built.  However, the policy doesnt  set out a minimum amount of time a structure 
must be defect free before a claim will be accepted. Equally, simply because  a structure has 
begun to fail doesnt automatically  mean  it was poorly designed or built, otherwise no 
subsidence claim would ever be covered.
Ultimately, the onus is on Lloyds to show  a policy exclusion fairly applies to the claim. Im not 
persuaded it would be reasonable to retrospectively apply building regulation guidance that 
didnt apply at the time the second storey was built (i.e. a minimum depth of 1,000mm),  or 
guidance that simply didnt apply to the builder  in question (i.e. the 1,600mm or 2,100mm 
previously quoted by Lloyds). On balance, Im more persuaded the design  and build was 
compliant with the regulations and supporting  guidance that applied at the time.
So, having  carefully considered the arguments presented, overall,  Im not persuaded Lloyds 
has sufficiently shown  the second-storey was poorly  designed  and/or built bearing in mind 
the building  regulation guidance at the time it was added  to the first-storey extension. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded Lloyds fairly declined the two-storey extension, and I remain of 
the view it should  deal with this part of the claim. As such, it follows  that I remain  of the view 
Lloyds should  reimburse Mr and Mrs B their engineer fees plus interest and compensate 
them a further  £500.
Mr and Mrs Bs loss assessor submitted three engineer invoices in response to my 
provisional decision, dated:
-October 2018  initial inspection  and report: £270
-January 2020   soil investigations: £1,031
-June 2020   specifications for underpinning and superstructure repairs:  £2,244
At the time of my provisional decision, I wasnt aware of the engineers fees beyond  an initial 
report. Im mindful the January 2020  and June 2020  fees were incurred whilst  the case was 
waiting for a final decision from an ombudsman at this service and without any engagement  
with us. But equally, I dont consider it unreasonable that Mr and Mrs B decided to progress 
towards completing the repairs themselves,  given  the claim had already been declined  and 
our investigator had concluded Lloyds outcome was fair. By January 2020 the issues  had 
been ongoing for over three  years. If Lloyds  hadnt declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim, they 
wouldnt have incurred  those further  report costs. As such, Im satisfied Lloyds should 
reimburse all three invoices. 
Mr and Mrs B should share  their soil investigation  report and their repair specifications with 
Lloyds, if it asks to see these to assist  with the claim settlement. If a dispute arises  about 
what repairs are required  to the two-storey extension, or how those repairs should be 
completed or cash settled, then a separate complaint will need  to be made.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint. 
My final decision is Lloyds  Bank General Insurance Limited should:
-deal with the claim for the two-storey extension, but not the conservatory;
Ref: DRN00103769-reimburse Mr and Mrs B their engineer fees as per their three  invoices (£270, £1,031, 
and £2,244), and pay interest1 at 8% simple  per year on this amount, from the date 
they paid each invoice until the date this part of the settlement  is paid; and
-compensate Mr and Mrs B £500
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 September 2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
1If Lloyds Bank General  Insurance Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
deduct income  tax from the interest  paid, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much  tax it has taken off. If 
requested, it should also give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing the amount deducted, so they can 
reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0010376