K821x#15complaint
Mr Y complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading Pounds to Pocket, lent to him 
irresponsibly.
background
I have created these  two tables using the information from Pounds to Pocket  to give brief 
details of the approved loans and Mr Ys financial details as given to it by Mr Y. 
Loan Date AmountInstalments 
(rounded) and 
periodAgreed end 
date Repaid
128 October 
2012£2501 x £29
11 x £3625 October 
20133 April 
2013
23 November 
2014£650 12 x £10130 October 
201513 October 
2015
37 March 
2016£2501 x £35
11 x £3824 February 
2017refinanced 
4*30 August 
2016£250 12 x £6425 August  
2017waived
Customer reported 
incomeAmountCustomer reported  
expensesAmount
28 October 2012 
(Loan 1)£302 No record -
16 April 2014 £900 No record -
-3 November 2014 
(Loan  2)£220
- 8 September 2015 £220
5 March  2016 
(Loan 3)£1,088 5 March 2016 £220
30 August  2016 
(Loan  4)£560
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought that Pounds  to Pocket  should  
not have approved Loan 4 which was a refinancing of Loan 3. He thought that things should  
be put right in relation to Loan  4. 
Pounds to Pocket did not agree and made  a number  of points and sent to us a document 
which it refers to as its entire  lending process  to demonstrate  what it says it did prior to 
lending to Mr Y after March 2015 (which  means Loan 3 onwards).  
Pounds to Pocket says that Loan 3 was topped up with an additional  sum of £250 in 
August 2016 and does not think that what we have referred to as Loan  4 was a new or 
refinanced loan. 
It has sent us an updated  business file and an explanation that in April 2019  it waived the 
outstanding debt due from Mr Y for the final loan. I can see that this looks like it was a write 
off of £345.54. This included some interest charges as well as the remaining principal sums. 
Ref: DRN09872202Pounds to Pocket has asked me to consider in particular some Financial Conduct Authority 
Consumer Credit Source  Book paragraphs  (CONC)  6.2.1 and 6.7.2. And it has pointed 
out the large gaps in lending. 
The complaint remains unresolved and was passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  short-term  lending - including  all of the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
Pounds to Pocket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr Y could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Pounds  to Pocket should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Pounds  to Pocket  was required to 
establish whether  Mr Y could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) (and its predecessor 
the Irresponsible  Lending Guide published  by the Office of Fair Trading) defined  
sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments. He or she ought 
to be in a position to make the repayments  without having to borrow further.  
Ref: DRN09872203And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ys complaint.
Loan 1 
This was approved  at a time when Mr Y had declared a very low income.  I have spoken to 
Mr Y and he has explained that he was having  serious health issues around that time and 
had to take time off work. Whilst  I sympathise  with Mr Y I do not think it would be reasonable 
of me to expect Pounds to Pocket  to have known this. And I have nothing  to show me that 
Mr Y had told them this. 
And if the low income had prompted  additional enquiries, the relatively low repayments of 
£36 a month may not have  made a difference to its lending decision. So I am not able to 
uphold Mr Ys complaint  for Loan 1.
Loan 2 
There was a significant gap between Mr Y paying off Loan  1 and him applying for Loan 2. 
This does  make a difference and it is not unreasonable  for Pounds to Pocket to treat Mr Ys 
application for Loan 2 as the start of a fresh relationship. Mr Y declared a higher income of 
£900 as outlined in the second table above.  He also said that his expenditure was £220.  
Mr Y was applying for a large sum - £650. Mr Y was going to be indebted to Pounds  to 
Pocket for 12 months  so I think it ought to have found out more  about Mr Ys expenditure. 
I do not have any details about Mr Ys specific outgoings or any other  debts he may have 
had around the time he applied for Loan  2. 
I know that towards the end of the loan term around September 2015 Mr Y asked for his 
repayment date to be altered some notes of those calls show that it agreed to move his next 
repayment to 1 October 2015 and then Mr Y chose to repay  that loan early. 
I have spoken  to Mr Y and he told me that he had very little to live on at the end of each 
month. But I have nothing concrete to demonstrate to me that Pounds to Pockets  decision 
to lend in November 2014 was irresponsible. I am not able to uphold Mr Ys complaint for 
Loan 2.
Loan 3 
This was applied for several months  after repaying  Loan 2 but I do not think that the gap is 
long enough  to break the lending relationship. I think that Loan 3 forms part of the same 
lending chain. 
Mr Y informed Pounds to Pocket when he applied for Loan 3 that his income had increased 
to £1,088 and that his outgoings remained £220. Pounds  to Pocket says that it used Office 
of National Statistics data to increase  his outgoings  figure to a sum which it says meant that 
his estimated disposable income was £633.80. With repayment figures of around  £35 and 
£38 a month then I think that Pounds to Pockets  lending decision was likely  based on 
Ref: DRN09872204proportionate checks and without more, which Mr Y has not been  able to provide, I am not 
able to uphold  Mr Ys complaint for the initial lending decision for Loan 3. 
Loan 4 
The email  correspondence I have seen between Mr Y and Pounds to Pocket clearly refers to 
the Loan 3 being  refinanced  in August 2016. An email about the loan to Mr Y says: 
Please note that your loan [4] has been rolled  into the new loan agreement  referenced 
below and therefore loan [3] will have a status of paid off. 
So I do not think that this was a top-up as Pounds to Pocket says to us that it was. 
The sum extended was £250 and the repayment dates were very different  to the original  
loan agreement for Loan 3 - around £64 a month for a further  12 months. So this extended 
Mr Ys indebtedness and was a significantly  higher monthly repayment. 
I have looked  at the overall pattern of Pounds to Pockets lending history  with Mr Y, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which it should  reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Pounds  to Pocket  should  have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. Given the particular  circumstances 
of Mr Ys case, I think that this point was reached by Loan  4. 
I say this because  as well as having  been  indebted  to Pounds to Pocket  for seventeen 
months by the end of August 2016,  Mr Y approached Pounds to Pocket for a significant  
amount of additional  funds of £250  through a refinancing. This would have suggested that 
he was in real need for extra money.  I can see that Mr Y increased the expenditure figure  
significantly - from £220 to £560  in August 2016.  
Pounds to Pocket ought to have realised it was more  likely than not Mr Y was having to 
borrow further to cover  the hole from repaying his previous loan and that Mr Ys 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. And that with the additional  expenditure costs  
then his ability to deal with that extra debt was reduced.  
I think that Mr Y lost out because Pounds to Pocket continued to provide borrowing by 
approving Loan 4. It had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Ys indebtedness  by allowing 
him to take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended  period  of time.
So I am upholding the complaint about Loan 4, and Pounds to Pocket should put things right 
for him.
CONC  6.2.1 and 6.7.2.
Pounds to Pocket made specific  reference to these  parts of CONC. I have reviewed these 
parts and they do not alter my view or decision. 
putting things right  what Pounds to Pocket needs to do
It was explained  in the background  section  of this decision that in April 2019 Pounds  to 
Pocket waived the outstanding debt due from Mr Y for Loan 4. So usually Id expect Pounds 
to Pocket  to refund interest and charges for that loan. But in Mr Ys case  it seems  that 
Pounds to Pocket has done  something  equivalent  to that already. 
Ref: DRN09872205I can see from the updated account (details  of which has been sent to Mr Y) that Mr Y 
seems to have repaid  less than he borrowed and so there is no loss to Mr Y in relation to 
Loan 4 and so there  is nothing to refund to Mr Y. 
Pounds to Pocket needs to amend Mr Ys credit file and because of the decision I have 
come to then reference to Loan  4 needs to be removed from his credit  file completely.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am upholding Mr Ys complaint in part. CashEuroNet  UK 
LLC, trading as Pounds to Pocket,  should do as I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0987220