K820x#14complaint
Mr O says DJS (UK) Limited  (trading as Piggybank) lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr O had one loan with Piggybank for £265  in September  2016.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Os complaint but didnt think  Piggybank was wrong to lend. 
Mr O didnt agree with the adjudicator,  so the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Os case. 
Piggybank needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay  his loans in a sustainable  manner. 
Ive seen that Piggybank carried out a credit check before lending  and the results  dont  
suggest Mr O had any problems managing  his money at the time he applied to Piggybank.
Piggybank also obtained  information about  Mr Os income and expenditure. It says Mr O 
declared total monthly income of £2,550.  Mr O disputes this. But I think its likely the 
information Piggybank had was provided  by Mr O. And Ive seen no reason why Piggybank 
shouldve doubted  the accuracy  of this information   so it was reasonable for Piggybank to 
rely on it. 
I have noted that the total income figure  of £2,550 was comprised of three separate  figures:  
income of £1,098, other income of £1,250 and £202 of working  tax credits.  I dont know  
what the other income figure refers to but I dont  think this matters. The figures were  
provided by Mr O and it was reasonable for Piggybank to take them into account.  The 
expenditure figures Mr O provided totalled just over £800  suggesting he had sufficient 
disposable income to repay the loan.
I think Piggybanks checks before lending were proportionate and it was reasonable for it to 
conclude from the checks that the loan was affordable. I therefore do not think Piggybank 
was irresponsible  when  it lent to Mr O.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I do not uphold Mr Os complaint about  DJS (UK) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Ref: DRN09465222Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0946522