K822xcomplaint
Mr Fs complaint against Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) is that it wont refund  him for a fraudulent 
transaction made using his credit card. 
background 
In February 2018,  Mr F noticed a transaction on his credit card account  that he hadnt made 
or authorised. It was for purchase of a technological  item, with a value of £937.72, which 
was bought via an online auction site, using Paypal. 
Mr F says he heard  from a courier  company that customs  duty of circa £150 needed to be 
paid on an overseas parcel  before  it could  be released and delivered  to him. As he knew 
nothing about  the goods purchased, he said he wouldnt pay the customs, so the courier  
company returned  the goods  to the sender.
This meant that Mr Fs account  with Lloyds was debited, but he didnt receive  the item. 
When Mr F reported  the disputed transaction, Lloyds initially  refunded his money. But after 
investigation, it felt that because  his correct details had been used to make  the purchase,  
and the delivery  address was the same as Mr Fs, he should be held liable for it.
Mr F didnt  think  this was fair, so he complained  to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and was provided with further  information  from both 
parties. She concluded  that Lloyds wasnt entitled  to hold Mr F liable for the disputed  
transaction, as hed been a victim  of fraud, and should refund him.
Lloyds asked for further information before coming back to our Investigator with its response.  
But despite  this being provided,  weve not heard back. 
As such,  Ive been passed the complaint for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that Lloyds hasnt treated Mr F fairly, 
and that it should now refund him for the disputed transaction, with interest.  
My reasons  are the same as outlined in our Investigators view of 30 October 2019. To 
briefly summarise, the relevant Regulations  concerning payments are the Payment Services  
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These  say that where  a payment cant be shown to be authorised,  
and except where a customer  has acted fraudulently,  the bank/lender should be liable for it 
In this case were also dealing with a distance  contract  where  a purchase was made online 
or by phone, and not by a customer in person. And this provides extra  protection for the 
buyer.
I accept on the evidence that Mr F didnt make this payment.  He didnt ever take receipt  of 
the goods, and has proven that he reported the fraud to Lloyds, Paypal, and the online 
Ref: DRN02585182auction site. He also contacted the merchant, who wouldnt provide the refund herself as she 
said shed also been scammed.
Im satisfied that Mr F didnt  make or authorise  the transaction. And as such I believe hes 
entitled to a refund from Lloyds.
my final decision
My final decision is that to resolve this complaint Lloyds  Bank  PLC should agree to pay to 
Mr F the suggested settlement of £937.72, together with interest at 8% from the date of the 
disputed transaction  to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0258518