K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 2 payday loans taken out between June and July 2014  as shown 
below: 
Loan 
numberTaken outRepayment 
dateAmount
1 5/6/2014 25/6/2014 £300
2 8/7/2014 30/7/2014 £500
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Cs complaint and said the loans shouldnt have been  given.  
Uncle Buck  disagreed so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN07107622I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Ive reached the same  conclusion as the adjudicator, and for the largely  the same reasons. 
In response to the adjudicators view Uncle Buck pointed out that wed said it had confirmed 
Mrs Cs income  as £3480.  However, the affordability checks it completed show it had 
actually used just Mrs Cs take home pay of £1800. I can see this is correct from the reports  
it has sent in. I know Mrs C has said its untrue she declared total income of £3480  when she 
applied for loan 1. And Uncle Buck has shown she declared other  monthly income of 
£1680. But I dont need to make a finding  as to what exactly Mrs C told Uncle  Buck about 
her income, as Uncle Buck has evidenced that it used the £1800  figure  for its affordability  
checks. And I can see from the bank statements shes  provided that her usual monthly 
income seemed  to be just under £1,800. So if it had checked this with her she was likely  to 
have confirmed it.
However, accepting  it used the right income information to reach its decision, I still think it 
should have done more  before approving loan 1. It argues that this was Mrs Cs first loan 
with Uncle  Buck and the combination of the income  and expenditure information  and the 
credit check  gave it no reason to investigate further. But I disagree.  Within the expenditure 
data Uncle  Buck didnt  have  any information  on Mrs Cs other  financial commitments.  It 
seems it gathered information about  her food costs, housing and bills and transport which 
came to a total monthly figure of £1,050. And given the value  of the loan and that her credit  
check showed she had over £22,000  of outstanding  debt, had opened  seven accounts in the 
previous six months  and defaulted on one account I think  it should have made  further 
enquiries about her expenses to at the least understand what  she usually paid towards her 
existing financial commitments  each  month. 
Had it carried out proportionate checks it would likely have  found  that, in addition to her 
declared expenses  of £1050, she already had regular financial commitments (loans, 
insurances, credit and storecard repayments) of around £450 a month.  Our adjudicator said 
that Uncle Buck would also have found  out that Mrs C owed money to other short term 
lenders. But even without going  this far I think better  checks around her regular financial 
commitments would have  shown Mrs C wouldnt be able to sustainably  repay her loan. 
Loan 2 was provided within days of settling the first loan. And it was for a significantly higher 
value. So Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs C was having  to 
borrow further to cover  the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances,  and 
Ref: DRN07107623that Mrs Cs indebtedness  was increasing  unsustainably.  So I think it needed to do more  
here than it did for Mrs Cs first loan and it should have checked whether Mrs C was reliant 
on short  term lending.
It hasnt provided a credit check  for loan 2 but I think it is most likely to have shown  a similar, 
or worsening, situation given loan 2 was taken out only 11 days after loan 1 was repaid. And 
I can see from her bank  statements that in addition to Mrs Cs regular financial commitments 
of £450, at this stage  Mrs C was borrowing  from several other payday lenders. She repaid 
over £1400, excluding the payments to Uncle Buck, in the month  loan 2 was due to be 
repaid. So again I think its likely that more  information gathered by proportionate checks  
would have changed its lending decision.
Overall, I think Uncle Buck failed to carry out proportionate checks  and was irresponsible  to 
give both loans.  
putting things right  what Uncle Buck will need to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs C paid on both loans;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  about  both loans from Mrs Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck  to take off tax from this interest.  Uncle Buck  must 
give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and Uncle Buck Finance LLP must  pay Mrs C 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0710762