K821x#15Complaint
Mrs Ks complaint is about the charges applied by Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS)  at the end of her hire purchase  agreement (HPA).
Background
Mrs K entered into a HPA with MBFS in 2015  to acquire a used car. At the time of 
acquisition, the car was around six months  old and had been driven 2,000 miles. Mrs K 
said she didnt take any record of any scratches  on the car at that time and that she 
accepted these as she was acquiring a used car.
In 2018, at the end of her agreement, Mrs K visited the same dealer she had acquired 
her car from and said she had intended to either exchange the car or extend her 
agreement. She said she was advised the best option was to exchange the car and get a 
new agreement.  She did this but was then charged a large amount for damages.  She 
accepted the bumper  damage but said the scratches were  present when  she acquired 
the car. She said that had she known  how much she would  be charged for damage  she 
would have extended her agreement rather than incur the cost.
Mrs K complained to MBFS about the charges.
MBFS said that the damage charges  had been  applied in line with the agreements terms 
and conditions and that it had no evidence  of the damage to the car being  present when 
Mrs K acquired it. It asked the dealer about the spare key and as this couldnt  be 
confirmed it agreed  to remove the charge  for this. In its final response letter MBFS also 
offered, as a gesture  of goodwill,  to reduce the charges by 15% leaving an amount owing 
of £1,395.87.
Mrs K didnt  agree and brought her complaint to us.
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  the complaint should  be partially upheld. 
She thought the charge for the literature pack should be removed and that the charge  for 
a dent to RHF door should be changed  to a charge  for a scratch.
Mrs K didnt  agree. She reiterated  that the scratches didnt happen while  she had the car 
and said she felt misled  by the sales  adviser as when she discussed her concerns about  
handing back the car only the issue with the bumper was noted.  
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should  be partially upheld for these reasons: 
Mrs K entered into a HPA with MBFS and in doing so agreed to its terms and 
conditions. These  state that the vehicle  should  be maintained to a standard 
consistent with the vehicle return conditions.  It later states that the vehicle must be 
returned in good  condition. 
Ref: DRN01131262MBFS has said that the vehicle return conditions were  provided at the outset and 
also six months before  the return of the car. These  explain that chipping  and 
scratching of paintwork that has penetrated  the base  coat or caused  corrosion  isnt 
acceptable. It also notes that dents that do not exceed 13 mm are acceptable and 
that the vehicle needs  to be returned with the literature pack.
An inspection took place on 29 September 2018.  This noted the following issues:
oMissing literature pack
oMissing spare key
oFront bumper dented
oBonnet scratched
oDoor LHR scratched
oRear bumper scratched
oDoor RHF dented
oWing RHF scratched
MBFS removed the charge for the missing spare key and Mrs K accepted  the 
damage to the front bumper  so I havent  considered these items further. Having 
looked at the photographs  provided and considered  the damage against  the terms of 
the HPA and the industry guidelines  provided  by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association  (BVRLA), I accept that the scratches on the bonnet, door (LHR), 
rear bumper and wing fall outside  of the fair wear and tear guidelines. 
Our investigator couldnt  see evidence of a dent to the door RHF but did note the 
scratch and thought this charge should be changed to reflect the presence of a 
scratch rather than a dent. MBFS accepted  this and I find this a reasonable 
recommendation.
I have nothing to show that the damage noted in the inspection  report  was present at 
the point of supply and while I note the comments Mrs K has made,  I find without 
further evidence  to show the damage was present  I cannot require these  charges  to 
be removed.
Our investigator thought the charge for the literature pack  should be removed as 
there wasnt evidence  this was provided  at the outset.  In this case, MBFS agreed to 
this and I find this reasonable.  
For these reasons, I have  partially uphold this complaint  
Ref: DRN01131263My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld in part. 
In order to resolve Mr Ks complaint, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited  should,  
as it has agreed,  remove the charges for the spare  key (as per its original offered) and the 
literature pack.  It should  also change the charge for the door RHF to a scratch  from a dent. 
Once this has happened  it should apply the 15% reduction to the final amount. Mrs K is then 
liable for the reduced amount.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0113126