K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by post in 1999. The policy  was taken  out at 
the same  time as Mrs L applied for a Mint credit  card. It gave her accident, sickness and 
unemployment protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Mrs L says at no point  was it clear to her that the policy was optional. But on her 
application form she indicated that she wanted PPI by ticking  a box. And there was 
no wording on the form that I think could  reasonably have  led her to believe it was 
mandatory. Overall, I think RBS made it clear to Mrs L that she had a choice about 
PPI and she agreed to take it out.  
Mrs Ls representative says the PPI wasnt  suitable for Mrs L and she didnt need  it. 
But RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have  to check  if it was right 
for her. It was up to Mrs L to decide  whether the policy was right for her bearing in 
mind her ability to make her credit card repayments if she was unable to work or lost 
her job. 
Its possible RBS didnt give Mrs L all the information about the PPI that she needed  
before she made her decision. But Mrs L chose to take out the policy  and so appears 
to have wanted this type of cover. She wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy was competitively  priced and apparently affordable.  
Mrs L told us she was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she 
was sick, and redundancy pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to her 
work benefits and for up to 12 months.  It wouldve allowed her to protect any lump 
sum redundancy payment  giving increased  financial security. Overall, based  on what  
I know about her circumstances and the terms of the PPI policy,  I cant  fairly 
conclude Mrs L wouldve made a different decision if better  information  had been  
provided. 
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because: 
Ref: DRN01142572RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about  that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mrs L, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs L any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0114257