K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about advice given by HDIFA (then part of Berkshire Financial Advisers
Ltd) to transfer  the value  of his deferred  benefits  in two former employers pension  schemes 
to a self invested  personal pension (SIPP) to invest in an unregulated investment.
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd (Meyado) is now responsible  for the advice
HDIFA gave. 
background
Ive considered Mr Fs complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 23 December 
2020. Ive summarised  the findings  I reached  below. But Ill first recap the facts  and how our 
investigation progressed.  
Mr F had deferred benefits in two former  employers  final salary  pension schemes. He was
referred to a firm Ill call Firm A (an appointed  representative of a regulated  firm).  Firm A
didnt have the necessary permissions to advise on final salary pension  transfers.  So Mr F 
was referred to HDIFA.
Following advice in March 2012 from HDIFA, Mr F transferred the value of his deferred 
benefits in his two former  employers schemes (in total about £70,722) to a SIPP.  In May 
2012 £65,000 was invested  in carbon credits.
Mr F, through  his representative, complained to Meyado in September 2017. Meyado didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr Fs representative  asked us to look into it.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She said HDIFA hadnt given suitable  advice. Mr F 
wasnt an experienced investor  and he didnt have any capacity for loss. The regulator  had 
made it clear  that assessing the suitability  of a transfer couldnt be done without considering 
the destination of the transferred funds. And the regulators position about  transfers  out of 
final salary schemes was that an adviser should start from the assumption that a transfer 
would be unsuitable.  Carbon credits  wasnt a suitable investment for Mr F. HDIFA should  
have advised  him against transferring to invest in carbon credits. The adjudicator set out 
how Meyado should  redress  Mr F.
Meyado didnt agree that the complaint should be upheld. In summary it said there were 
limitation (time bar) issues; investment advice was to be provided by Firm A; the complaint 
should be redirected to Firm A. Meyado said Mr F had already decided to invest in carbon 
credits. He wasnt seeking advice about the investment from HDIFA. It had said it wouldnt 
be commenting on the investment and accepted no responsibility for Mr Fs decision. 
Meyado also said Mr F had signed  the pension review questionnaire (PRQ) confirming he 
was an adventurous  even  speculative  investor who requires exposure  to extreme markets.  
And our failure to obtain relevant documentation from Firm A and others had prejudiced  
Meyados ability  to respond fully to the complaint  and our ability to properly discharge our 
statutory responsibility  under  the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA) to reach 
a conclusion which is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Meyado said that, at the 
very least,  there should  be some  apportionment of compensation.
We made some further enquiries of Mr F. We were  aware that in some cases  investors
Ref: DRN03359162had received incentive payments. We also asked  Mr F how the whole process had started  
whether hed been looking  to move his pension or if hed been contacted by someone about  
a particular investment.    
Mr F confirmed hed received a payment. He couldnt recall  the amount.  Hed paid it into his 
wifes bank account. Theyd since divorced and were no longer on good terms and he didnt  
know where she was. Mr F also told us hed been looking to remortgage to raise some  funds 
as a cash injection into his wifes  business  for which Mr F also worked. He contacted an 
adviser Ill call Mr B who suggested, when going through Mr Fs finances in connection  with 
a possible remortgage,  that Mr F might be able to release funds  up to 25% tax free cash  - 
from his pensions held with previous employers. 
Mr F later told us that hed been  able to get back on speaking terms with his ex wife. Neither 
she nor Mr F could  trace or recall  the exact  sum paid but they believed  it was around 
£15,000. Mr F understood the payment was tax free cash to which he was entitled. He didnt 
think it should be deducted from any compensation he received. That money  was going to 
be vital to his retirement. He also said he wasnt  a lawyer and hed have to pay his 
representative for the work hed done. Mr F didnt think that was a cost he should have to 
bear when  his pension pot had effectively been stolen.  
Meyado had more  recently made  some  further representations about the High Courts
judgment handed down on 18 May 2020  in the case of Adams  v Options SIPP  UK LLP
(formerly Carey  Pensions UK LLP) [2020]  EWHC 1229 (Ch). The claimant had argued that
the underlying  investment had been  manifestly  unsuitable and the SIPP  provider had a duty
to advise on the underlying investment. The claim was dismissed. The court held that the
SIPP provider didnt  owe a duty to advise  on the underlying investments and there was no
obligation to refuse the claimants  instructions to transfer.  Meyado  argued the judgment was
material to Mr Fs complaint. Meyado said it would be making further submissions.
In the provisional  decision  I issued on 23 December  2020 I said the complaint had been 
made in time. HDIFAs advice was given in March  2012. Mr Fs complaint was made in 
September 2017 (his representatives  letter  to HDIFA  dated 14 September 2017). Meyados 
final response was issued on 19 September 2017. The complaint was referred  to us in 
October 2017. All that was comfortably within the primary six year (and six month)  period. 
I upheld the complaint. In brief my main findings  were:
was HDIFAs advice  suitable?
HDIFA couldnt fulfil its regulatory duties to Mr F without considering the overall
transaction. To determine  if the transfer  to a SIPP was suitable HDIFA had to
understand what the SIPP was going  to be invested  in. HDIFA knew  from the outset
that Mr F intended to invest in an unregulated  investment  carbon credits.
The regulators 18 January 2013  alert makes  it clear that HDIFA couldnt just advise
on the SIPP itself.  The underlying investment was part and parcel of the advice to
transfer. HDIFA needed to consider its suitability too. Even  if the introduction had
come from another  regulated firm and HDIFA had made  it clear  that it wasnt  giving
advice on the underlying  investment.
what would  suitable  advice have been?
As per COBS  19.1.6G, HDIFA should  have started by assuming the transfer wouldnt
Ref: DRN03359163be suitable. Further examination would have  confirmed  that.
The assessment  of Mr Fs attitude  to risk  that he was an adventurous, even
speculative investor  wasnt  credible. He didnt appear to have  any prior investment 
experience and certainly not in non mainstream, specialist, high risk funds.  And he 
didnt have the capacity for loss that could result. His deferred benefits  in his two 
former employers schemes represented  his only pension provision. 
The risks associated  with the investment were considerable. It was unregulated. I
referred to what the regulator had said about  that type of investment  that it was
high risk and unlikely to be suitable  for the vast majority of consumers. And then
usually only for a proportion of an investors funds. Here virtually  all of Mr Fs entire 
pension provision was invested in a single unregulated fund. He should have been 
advised against transferring and investing any of his pension funds in carbon credits. 
The advice was unsuitable.
Meyado didnt argue that its advice  was suitable.  Its position  was that, due to the
involvement of others, it wasnt fair and reasonable to hold it responsible for Mr Fs 
losses in full. It could  be argued that his losses stemmed mainly from the failure of 
the investment.  And, given the funds transferred were initially  held in cash, no loss 
had resulted by the time HDIFAs  role ceased. But HDIFA  knew  that, ultimately,  the
proposed investment was in carbon credits. The money was only available to invest
because HDIFA had recommended the transfers  and facilitated  them.  Mr F may have 
signed to confirm he understood the investments  may be high risk and that
responsibility didnt  rest with HDIFA. But that didnt absolve HDIFA from its regulatory
duty to consider the investments too.
other parties  involvement
I referred to DISP 3.6.1R. It requires  me to determine a complaint by reference to
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case.
I also referred to DISP 3.5.2R, DISP  3.5.3R and DISP 3.6.3G. I agreed  that the
involvement of other parties was a relevant  factor.
Mr Fs complaint had been  made  against  HDIFA. But that didnt mean I hadnt
considered the involvement of others.  Or that we wont consider whether any other
party might have some responsibility.  But a conclusion  that, despite  the involvement
of other  (regulated) entities, the complaint should  be upheld against the party
complained about,  and that party should  meet the consumers  losses  in full, wont
necessarily be unfair  or unreasonable.
Firm A had introduced Mr F to HDIFA. It was possible that Firm A had given  advice 
about the carbon credits investment. But Mr F hadnt  suggested  that or produced any 
documentation to show that, such as a recommendation letter from Firm A. 
It was also possible  that Mr B had given  investment advice. Advising on investments 
is a regulated activity  under article 53(1) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (Regulated Activities)  Order 2001 (SI 2001/544) (RAO). The definition  includes 
advice on the merits of an investor  (or potential investor)  buying, selling, subscribing 
for, exchanging,  redeeming,  holding or underwriting a particular investment. Mr B 
may have been (and remains) a regulated adviser. And the firm he works for is 
regulated too. He may have given  regulated  advice about the investment.
But Mr B may also have had some  links to an unregulated introducer  for the carbon
credits investment. Its possible,  in any conversations with Mr F about the investment, 
Mr B was acting for the introducer  and in an unregulated capacity. On that basis  he'd 
have been prohibited from giving  financial advice - under  section 19 of FSMA a 
person must be authorised to conduct any regulated activity. If what he said 
Ref: DRN03359164amounted to investment advice and he was acting for the unregulated  introducer, 
he'd be in breach of section 19.
But even  Mr B did give advice  (whether regulated or not) he knew  any investment 
would be made out of funds transferred from Mr Fs pensions.  So he referred Mr F to 
Firm A for advice.  But, because Mr Fs pension arrangements included  deferred  
benefits in defined benefits  schemes, Firm A couldn't advise and so introduced Mr F 
to HDIFA.
If the transfers hadnt happened and the SIPP hadnt been  set up, Mr F wouldnt 
have been in a position to make the carbon credits investment. On that basis,  
HDIFAs role and the advice it gave  was instrumental. 
There was no dispute that HDIFA had given  advice. It thought it could limit its advice 
to the transfer  and the SIPP. But that was wrong.  HDIFA needed to consider  the 
proposed investment  too. Even if Firm A or Mr B had advised Mr F, and in the 
strongest possible terms, to invest in carbon credits, my decision would have been 
the same: Mr F had deferred benefits in two former employers defined benefit  
schemes. Firm A wasnt competent to advise on transferring those benefits. Firm A 
didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions. Firm A had to refer the matter to 
HDIFA.
HDIFA had the requisite permissions and expertise and responsibility  to advise Mr F
properly on the overall transaction.  Id focused on HDIFAs  own responsibilities as 
the only business involved with the capacity to unlock the funds  held in Mr Fs 
defined benefit  schemes.  HDIFAs  role was pivotal, since  the eventual  investment 
was wholly  contingent  on the transfer  taking place. HDIFAs  advice that Mr F should  
transfer to a SIPP so that he could invest in a high risk, unregulated,  illiquid 
investment was unsuitable. But for the transfer  Mr F couldnt have invested as he did.
My starting point as to causation was that HDIFA advised Mr F to transfer.  And it was 
primarily responsible for the losses hed suffered in transferring to the SIPP  and 
investing in carbon  credits.  That wasnt wrong in law or irrational but reflects  the facts 
of the case and HDIFAs pivotal part in the matter. HDIFA  could have prevented the 
investment. Instead it facilitated it, having given  unsuitable  advice  that Mr F transfer.  
He was only able to invest in carbon credits because HDIFAs unsuitable advice 
unlocked the money  from his former  employers pension schemes.  The transfers 
themselves were unsuitable and Meyado hadnt  argued otherwise. 
If Meyado considered  that others had some responsibility in the matter it was
presumably open to Meyado to pursue those other  parties.  I didnt think  Mr F would 
object, if Meyado met his losses in full, to assigning his rights to Meyado. 
what would  Mr F have  done if HDIFA had given him suitable advice?
There was an argument  that Mr F may have gone ahead  anyway,  even if HDIFA had 
advised him against. Where there's a dispute  about would have happened if 
something different  had been  done,  I have to decide, on the balance  of probabilities 
and taking into account such evidence as is available, what  the likely outcome would 
have been. The weight I attach to particular  evidence is a matter  for me. Meyado 
may not agree with my findings.  But that doesn't mean what I've said must  be 
irrational or that I've failed  to take into account relevant information  or evidence or 
that I've based my decision  on irrelevant factors.
Mr F was in contact with Mr B before  he was referred to HDIFA. I didnt know  what  
Mr B may have said about the carbon credits investment. But Id assume  he was 
persuasive and made it sound like it was good idea and that Mr F would be better off 
by investing. But, regardless of what had gone on before, Mr F was required to get 
regulated advice from a firm that had the necessary permissions to advise on defined 
Ref: DRN03359165benefit transfers. Mr B  and Firm A - didnt. So the transaction - the transfer  and the 
investments - hinged  on HDIFAs advice.
Mr F had been referred  to HDIFA for specialist  advice  because the other  parties 
involved couldnt advise. HDIFA were the experts and had the requisite  skill, 
experience and regulatory permissions  to advise on defined  benefit transfers. I 
thought Mr F would have placed significant  weight on what  HDIFA said.
If HDIFA had given  suitable advice HDIFA would have advised Mr F against  
transferring from his former employers defined benefit schemes. HDIFA would also 
have made it clear why it was unable to advise him to transfer. HDIFA should have 
considered the carbon credits investment and spelled  out the risks. 
If HDIFA had done  that and told Mr F it didnt recommend the transfer, Mr F wouldve 
thought about whether what he was planning was a good idea after all. I didnt see 
that Mr F would simply have ignored such advice.  I thought HDIFAs expert advice 
would have carried significant weight. Advice from HDIFA that Mr F shouldnt  transfer  
and invest as he planned would have called into question what he may have been 
told by others about the investment and its potential. And countered  any overly 
positive views expressed by any other  party. 
If HDIFA had said Mr F shouldnt  go ahead and hed wanted to proceed anyway, 
HDIFA would have  had to treat him as an insistent client.  HDIFA may not have been 
willing to act on that basis. Even if it was, following the correct procedure  for insistent 
clients meant HDIFA wouldve had to discuss with Mr F why he wanted to go ahead,  
despite specialist  advice against,  and record his reasons. I thought that wouldve 
concentrated Mr Fs mind on whether  it was really advisable to transfer and give up 
the security of his defined benefit  arrangements in favour  of benefits  that were  
dependent on investment returns from a high risk, unregulated  and speculative fund. 
I didnt think, if things had been  properly explained  to Mr F, hed have been prepared  
to risk losing his entire pension provision by investing in that sort of fund. 
And, if HDIFA  wasnt prepared to act for Mr F as an insistent client,  hed have had to 
find another adviser who presumably wouldve  given him suitable  advice - that he 
shouldnt transfer. I thought that all pointed to Mr F not having gone ahead  with the 
transfers and investments  if HDIFA had advised him against.
But Mr F had received a substantial  incentive payment in return  for investing in 
carbon credits.  He was looking to raise  money at the time to invest  in his wifes 
business and contemplating remortgaging  to do so. The prospect of a large lump 
sum in return for investing, and without having  to go through the trouble and expense 
of remortgaging and, presumably, committing to higher mortgage payments, would 
have been very attractive to Mr F. I recognised it was an important motivating factor 
in his decision to go ahead with the transfers and the carbon credits investment.
But it wasnt the only consideration.  Or that it meant that Mr F was always going to
invest in carbon credits, just to secure the incentive payment and despite any advice 
from HDIFA to the contrary. Mr Fs decision  to proceed wasnt  based  on the full facts.  
HDIFA didnt consider the investment  because  it didnt think it had to. But it was part 
and parcel of the overall transaction and so HDIFA should have taken it into account. 
If HDIFA had told Mr F it couldnt recommend the transfer and explained  why - that it 
was too risky  I thought hed have  reconsidered.  
I didnt think hed have  been  prepared to jeopardise his entire pension provision just 
for the lump sum payment. I thought hed have explored other ways to raise capital 
for his wifes business. I didnt see that his and his wifes circumstances were such 
that they couldnt have  raised  any money  needed  for the business  by any other 
means, such as a remortgage, as Mr F had originally contemplated, or some other 
loan facility. From what Id seen, the survival of the business didnt depend on the 
cash injection that Mr F was able to make. The business was a limited  company 
Ref: DRN03359166which appears to have been  dissolved in September 2017. It didnt seem  that the 
companys demise  was imminent  anyway and that it was only rescued, for a short  
period of time, by the cash Mr F raised.  All in all I wasnt persuaded that Mr F would 
have gone anyway and just to secure  the incentive  payment.
Mr F hadnt  been able to produce  confirmation  of the exact amount he received. He 
and his ex wife think it was about £15,000. In other cases  wed seen amounts closer 
to 25% of the fund value were received. In Mr Fs case the transfers totalled £70,722 
so 25% would have  been £17,680.50. As Mr F cant evidence the exact sum received 
I thought it would be fairest to assume  hed got 25% of the transfer values.
Mr F didnt think it was fair to make a deduction for the payment he received. But he 
and his wife did have the use and benefit  of the money at the time.  So I didnt think, 
and taking into account the amount, that it should  be disregarded. Mr F had also said 
hed have to pay for his representatives help in bringing the complaint. I understood 
that Mr F might  not have felt confident about  bringing a complaint himself. But I 
explained that consumers dont need  to be represented to refer a complaint to us and 
that our processes  arent formal  like a courts.  I maintained the incentive payment 
could be taken into account. I set out how Meyado  should calculate redress. 
Meyados more recently comments
Id considered Meyados more recent comments. Meyado had referred to the case of
Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP (formerly Carey  Pensions UK LLP).  Meyado did indicate that 
it wished to make further comments about the case.  Wed allowed Meyado ample time to do 
so. But we had to be fair to both parties so I didnt think it was unfair or unreasonable to 
proceed in the absence  of any further  detailed submissions about the case and when I didnt 
see that the case was relevant.
First it relates  to a SIPP providers obligations  whereas  Mr Fs complaint is made against his 
independent financial  adviser. Secondly, the issue in the court case was the extent, if any, of 
the SIPP providers  obligations in an execution only transaction.  Here  HDIFA was providing 
regulated advice. Further, the court case involved a personal pension  arrangement. In the 
present case HDIFAs advice was in respect of the transfer of the value of Mr Fs benefits in 
his former  employers defined benefits schemes. I dont see theres anything in the Adams  v 
Carey judgement which is obviously relevant to the present case.
responses to my provisional  decision 
Mr Fs representative  didnt comment further.  Meyado  did. In summary:
Mr Fs decision to open a SIPP and transfer  the value of his pension benefits  was 
made with assistance and advice from a number of entities, not just HDIFA. Id 
continued to ignore  the other entities involvement, even though  it was factually 
undeniable that Firm A (a regulated entity) was materially involved. 
That wasnt fair or reasonable but irrational. Our unwillingness  to look into the 
relationship between Mr F and Firm A  which firm was materially  involved in 
advising Mr F to invest in the illiquid investments at the heart of his complaint and 
(once the SIPP was open) was to advise on his planned investments  meant my 
decision was being made in the light of a deliberate choice to exclude relevant 
matters. The requirement (under FSMA) to take into account all the circumstances  
means the actions  of other entities with whom Mr F interacted  as part of his decision 
making cant be excluded.
Our approach suggests, where  multiple  entities (regulated or otherwise and here
Ref: DRN03359167Firm A was regulated) are involved, well disregard all but the one at which the 
complaint is explicitly  directed (whilst irrationally  accepting a denial of liability from
the entity to which  the complaint was first directed) and hold that firm accountable  for
all failings, irrespective of where liability should properly lie. Entities are at the mercy
of who a complainant  happens to name on the complaint form and when many
complainants wont  have a true understanding of the roles and responsibilities  of 
those with whom theyve dealt. Thats contrary to our obligations under FSMA and
demonstrably unjust  to one or more parties.
That approach  had handicapped  Meyado.  Our reluctance to examine Firm As
involvement has meant that key documents and evidence has been unavailable to
Meyado and us. Our enquiries have been at best incomplete and Meyados ability to
defend itself has been seriously impaired.
That had led to a fundamental  error  as to causation. My decision was based  on the
premise that, without  HDIFAs involvement,  the investments  and so Mr Fs losses  - 
wouldnt have occurred.  That oversimplifies the true position and failed  properly to 
take into account both Mr Fs decision to invest and that it is the investments, and not 
the SIPP, which are the primary cause  of his losses. The decision also disregards 
how Mr F held himself  out to HDIFA.
Meyado highlighted sections of my provisional  decision:
Mr F had already decided to transfer his existing  pensions  before HDIFA was
involved. His determination to transfer cant have been influenced by HDIFA. And,
following the transfer, Firm A was to advise on the investment. My decision was
irrational and relied on speculation.
The correct factual  position was that an entity  other than HDIFA was the advising
entity. Our unwillingness to investigate other entities involvement properly or at all
evidences irrationality and unfairness. We hadnt properly considered  whats  fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Id conceded  that Mr F had received  a substantial incentive payment. He was in 
desperate need of those funds. It was unfounded speculation to dismiss the incentive
payment to conclude that Mr F wouldnt have proceeded in any event. Its irrational,
when the weight of evidence overwhelmingly points  to the conclusion Mr F would  
have proceeded  with his chosen investment come what may.
HDIFA had no involvement  in the decision  to invest in carbon credits.  Its difficult,  if
not impossible, to say HDIFA  had knowledge of, and should  take the blame for, an
investment decision  made after HDIFAs involvement ceased and when HDIFA didnt 
have and couldnt have had any influence or control  over the ultimate  investments.
It was conjecture to say, if HDIFA had advised  against transferring, Mr F wouldve 
thought again. Its at odds with the evidence as to Mr Fs determination not to heed 
warnings and ignores  the fact that he ultimately invested in a product in which HDIFA 
had no involvement.  And Id disregarded  Mr Fs assessment of his own investment 
experience and attitude to risk.
Id referred to the regulators alert dated 18 January  2013.  But Id conceded  that dealt
with where an adviser took on a client from an unregulated introducer, which wasnt
HDIFAs situation. I hadnt attempted to deal with that key distinction.
In conclusion Meyado  said my decision was unfair, unjust and irrational. Nothing
should detract from its sympathy  for Mr F. Hed suffered loss as a result of investing 
(on the advice of others) in investments  which had failed.  But my decision failed 
properly to appreciate  causation  and reliance issues.  Based on the information wed 
considered  or chosen not to consider  the decision  was unfair and unjust in
apportioning the entire responsibility for Mr Fs losses on Meyado  and didnt meet
Ref: DRN03359168our obligations  under FSMA.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive taken into account
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. And, as set out
above, Ive paid attention  to the relevant  DISP  rules. Ive also carefully considered  Meyados
comments in response  to my provisional  decision.
Generally what Meyado  has said isnt new. Meyados main point remains the involvement of
others and in particular  Firm A. I dont agree that we havent made sufficient enquiries  about 
that. Or that Ive misunderstood  or ignored the part played by Firm A (or indeed  any other 
entity that was involved)  such that my decision cant properly be said to have taken into 
account all the circumstances of the case as required by FSMA.
The central point  is that Mr F had deferred  benefits  in two former  employers final salary
pension schemes. Firm A couldnt advise about that and referred  him to HDIFA. Theres no 
dispute that HDIFA advised  Mr F to transfer to a SIPP. And HDIFA set up the SIPP and
arranged the transfer.
Ive acknowledged  its possible  that Firm A gave advice about the carbon credits investment.
And that Mr B (whether  in an unregulated or regulated capacity) may have advised too. But, 
as Ive said, theres no dispute  that HDIFA did give advice. HDIFA thought it could limit its 
advice to the transfer and the SIPP. As Ive explained, its understanding was wrong: HDIFA 
needed consider the proposed investment  too.
Even if Firm A (or indeed  any other  party) had advised Mr F to invest in carbon credits,  my 
decision would have  been the same. Mr F had deferred benefits in two former employers 
defined benefit  schemes.  Firm A (or any other party) wasnt competent to advise on 
transferring those benefits. Firm A didnt  have the necessary  regulatory  permissions. Firm A 
had to refer the matter  to HDIFA.
Ive focused on HDIFAs own responsibilities  as the only business involved with the capacity
to unlock the funds held in Mr Fs defined benefits  schemes. HDIFAs role was pivotal,
since the eventual  investment  was wholly contingent  on the transfer  taking place. HDIFAs
advice that Mr F should transfer to a SIPP so he could invest in a high risk, unregulated, 
illiquid investment  was unsuitable. But for the transfer Mr F couldnt have invested as he did.
I dont agree that well always  disregard the involvement of any other entities and hold the
business at which the complaint is explicitly directly responsible  for all failings, irrespective of
where responsibility might properly  lie. I agree that a complainant  wont  always  understand 
the different  roles  and responsibilities  where  more than one party  is involved. But it was 
HDIFA who gave the advice to transfer. Its role was central. I dont think  concentrating on 
whether the advice HDIFA  gave was suitable is unfair or unjust. Rather, and as Ive said,  it 
reflects HDIFAs central and pivotal role in the matter.
Meyado says our reluctance to examine Firm As involvement means that key documents
and evidence hasnt  been made available. But Mr F hasnt produced any report  or suitability 
letter from Firm A (or any other entity) indicating that investment advice was given.
Ref: DRN03359169I dont see that Mr F, before HDIFAs involvement, had made  a firm or irrevocable decision
to transfer which couldnt  have been influenced by HDIFA. I dont agree it wouldnt have
made any difference if HDIFA  had advised Mr F against  transferring.  I set out in my
provisional decision why I thought hed have placed  weight on what  HDIFA had said.  And
why, in practical terms, it wouldnt have been  straightforward for him to have  just disregarded
HDIFAs advice and proceeded anyway.  I maintain, if HDIFA had advised Mr F against,  hed 
have thought again. 
Meyado says it was the investment and not the transfer that caused  Mr Fs losses. But
HDIFAs advice meant  Mr F was able to access his pension funds to make  the unsuitable
carbon credits investment. He didnt have any other  funds he couldve invested.  And if
HDIFA had said he shouldnt do it then Mr F wouldve needed to have overcome other
hurdles to go ahead. As things stood, HDIFAs unsuitable advice made it easy for Mr F to 
proceed and didnt give him any reason  to question whether what he was planning  was
really advisable. I dont  think thats an oversimplification. As Ive said I think  it reflects the 
facts and HDIFAs central and pivotal  role.
Meyado asserts  that Mr F was in desperate need  of the incentive payment. I dont see that 
was the case.  The PRQ  indicated that Mr Fs financial position was fairly comfortable and 
that his disposable income  was around £2,000  a month. I accepted that Mr F was looking to 
raise money for his wifes business. But I explained  in my provisional decision why I thought 
other avenues would have been open  to Mr F. I dont think  a finding that Mr F wouldnt have 
proceeded if HDIFA had advised against  and despite any incentive payment is irrational.
Meyado says HDIFA cant be blamed for any investment decisions made after its
involvement ceased and where HDIFA didnt have any influence  or control over the ultimate
investments. But HDIFA knew from the outset  (see,  for example,  its letter  dated 13 March 
2012) that the reason  for the transfer  was to invest in carbon credits. 
I note what Meyado says about Mr Fs attitude to risk. But I explained in my provisional
decision why I didnt  think that was a credible  assessment. And that HDIFA should have
explored with Mr F if he really wanted, and could afford, to take a very high level of risk
with his only pension  provisions.
Meyado also says that the regulators alert deals  with the situation where an adviser takes
on a client from an unregulated introducer,  whereas here the referral came from Firm A, a
regulated business.  But, in any event,  it still wasnt open to HDIFA just to advise on the 
transfer  it had to consider the proposed  underlying investment too. 
The regulator issued  a further alert on 28 April 2014.  Again it didnt follow  the introduction  of 
new regulations  but restated the existing position. It included the following:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing  that the customer  will transfer or
switch from a current pension arrangement  to release funds to invest  through a SIPP, then
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch  at all as it will
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Ref: DRN033591610The alert went on to reiterate that suitable advice generally required consideration of the
overall transaction, that is the vehicle and the wrapper and the expected  underlying
investments and whether or not such investments were regulated  products.  It said,  despite
the initial alert (in January 2013), some firms continued to adopt a model  which purportedly
restricted advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. But advising on the suitability of a
pension transfer  or switch  couldnt reasonably be done without considering the existing
pension arrangement and the underlying  investments  intended to be held in the SIPP. 
So, even if the introduction came  from a regulated firm, HDIFA had to consider the proposed
underlying investment too. HDIFA knew that was carbon credits.  It was unsuitable for Mr F. 
On that basis the advice  to transfer  was unsuitable  too.
All in all my views remain as previously indicated. I uphold the complaint. Meyado must 
redress Mr F as set out in my provisional decision and which  Ive repeated  here. 
fair compensation
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr F as far as possible  in the position hed be in now if 
HDIFA had given him suitable advice. I think Mr F would have retained his deferred  benefits 
in his former employers schemes.
Ive seen a letter dated 1 July 2016  from the SIPP provider  to Mr F. It referred to a property
investment that Mr F didnt have. But it also said that the carbon credits investment  was
considered to have  no current value with no realistic prospect of recovery.  If Mr F wished,
ownership could  be transferred  to him so that hed benefit in the event there  was some
recovery in value. As the SIPP  held no other  investments  (aside from a small amount  of 
cash) the SIPP  would be regarded as terminated and outstanding fees written off. 
On that basis Mr Fs SIPP has a nil value. And Meyado wont  need to buy the investment to 
allow the SIPP to be closed. Mr F wont incur any future SIPP fees so no award for those 
needs to be made.
If Meyado considers  that Mr F may receive some value from the carbon credits  investment
in the future, Meyado may require,  if Mr F is redressed in full, that he provides an 
undertaking to pay Meyado any amount he may receive from the investment in the future.
That undertaking must allow  for any tax and charges  that would be incurred on drawing the
receipt from the pension  plan. Meyado  will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the
undertaking. Similarly, if Meyado requires an assignment of rights from Mr F, it will need to
meet the costs  involved in drawing up the agreement. Any undertaking and/or assignment
should be drafted  in a clear and simple  format.
what should  Meyado do?
Meyado should  undertake a redress calculation in line with the revised methodology issued
by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.  This calculation should be carried  out as
at the date of my final decision  and using the most  recent financial assumptions published
at the date of that decision.  In accordance  with the regulators expectations, this should be
undertaken or submitted  to an appropriate actuarial services provider promptly following
receipt of notification of Mr Fs acceptance of the decision.
Meyado may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to for Mr Fs
Ref: DRN033591611contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will
take into account the impact of leaving the employers  schemes  on Mr Fs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
The compensation in respect  of any loss should if possible be paid into a suitable  pension
arrangement. The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
It shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or
allowance. If payment into a pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr F as a lump sum after making a notional
deduction to allow for future income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
For example, if Mr F wouldnt yet have taken  a tax-free cash sum from the employers 
schemes, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%.  So making a 
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation must where possible be paid to Mr F within  90 days  of the date Meyado
receives notification  of his acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest must be added
to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final
decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes  Meyado to
pay Mr F this compensation.  
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERFS  adjustment may mean  that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  - and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from the DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest  wont  apply.
In carrying out the above  calculations, Meyado should make  an allowance  for the lump sum
incentive payment  Mr F received, which Ive assumed was 25% of the total transfer  values. It
should do this by applying a withdrawal  of £17,680.50 from the calculation on the date Mr Fs
carbon credits investment was made (25 May 2012).
Its possible Mr F could  face an unauthorised payment charge. But whether that will be the
case and, if so, what amount Mr F may have to pay is uncertain.  If required, Meyado should
give Mr F an undertaking to meet any unauthorised payment charge that he may in the
future have  to pay.
Meyado should  also pay Mr F £350 for the worry and upset this matter has caused him.
Ref: DRN033591612my final decision
I uphold the complaint. 
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd must redress Mr F as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0335916