K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 2002. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  because:
I think NatWest  made  Mr and Mrs F aware that they had a choice about buying the MPPI, 
and they chose  to take it. They signed  separate MPPI application forms after theyd 
received their mortgage offer. The mortgage offer indicated  theyd previously rejected 
MPPI and asked  them to reconsider. I understand they also cancelled  a similar policy  
they already  had as a result  of taking MPPI with NatWest. So Im not persuaded that 
NatWest made  it appear as though  the MPPI was an integral part of the mortgage or 
that NatWest insisted  they take it. 
NatWest  recommended  the MPPI to Mr and Mrs F. Mr F had an income protection policy  
that kicked in after 12 months  of him being off work  and wouldve continued paying him 
until he reached retirement age  albeit far less than his existing salary. Other than that, 
he was entitled to statutory  sick pay. Mrs F had sick pay of between  three  and six 
months. Mr and Mrs F have  provided evidence showing they had savings worth about six 
months of their combined salaries.  And they say they couldve got by without the MPPI. 
So they argue  it was unsuitable  for them.  
While it seems  likely that Mr and Mrs F couldve got by without the MPPI if one or both of 
them couldnt work, that in itself doesnt make the policy  unsuitable. The MPPI wouldve 
protected their savings and standard of living if theyd made  a successful claim. So I dont 
think NatWest  was wrong to recommend the policy.  Ultimately  it was up to Mr and Mrs F 
to accept or reject that recommendation,  bearing  in mind the existing provisions they 
already had in place. 
I think NatWest  couldve  explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Mr and Mrs F would still have bought  it. They seem  to have made a conscious 
decision to take the policy and use it to replace  an existing one that they cancelled. This 
suggests that they wanted this type of cover, which  they had in place  previously.  
Ref: DRN06374452Its possible that NatWest didnt point  out the main  things  the policy didnt cover.  But Mr 
and Mrs F dont appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Fs comments,  including what theyve said about not 
needing the policy. I appreciate the effort theyve gone to in providing evidence of their 
financial position at the time. But these points dont change my conclusion. While  they were  
in a reasonably  comfortable position, and couldve got by without the MPPI, it appears that 
their income and standard of living  is likely to have  suffered if one of them had been  unable 
to work. They wouldve  had to rely on their savings for a period of time,  depleting those. 
The MPPI wouldve  had the effect of protecting those savings if theyd made  a claim. And 
the fact they previously had a similar  policy,  which this MPPI replaced,  suggests to me that 
Mr and Mrs F thought, at least at the time, that this type of policy  was useful and worth 
having. I appreciate  they no longer think that, but based on the evidence Ive seen, and 
having thought very carefully about it, I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0637445