K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the way that Vanquis  Bank  Limited has dealt  with his credit  card 
account and that its provided incorrect information to the credit reference  agencies.
background
Mr M complained to this service in June 2019  about some issues  with the credit card 
account that he has with Vanquis  Bank.  He said that it had closed his account and provided 
information about the closure to the credit reference  agencies which had adversely  impacted 
his credit score. 
He also discussed  those issues with Vanquis Bank  in June 2019 and it responded to him by 
letter in August 2019. It said that it had investigated his concerns about not being able to 
make the payment of £170 that he wanted  to make to his account  but there were no issues  
with its payment system. It also said that it reviewed  his account and confirmed that the 
online service acted  correctly and only attempted to collect the amount input on its payments 
page. But it did offer to waive a £12 over-limit charge.
Mr M raised  further concerns about his account which  were  considered  by Vanquis Bank in a 
letter sent to him in February 2020. It said that Mr Ms concerns were that: he wasnt aware 
his account had been closed in January and May; incorrect information was being  recorded 
on his credit file, he hadnt been  able to make  payments to his account; and he was 
dissatisfied with the level of service  and support hed received  from Vanquis Bank.  It upheld  
his complaint about the service that hed received because he hadnt  received a call-back 
from a manager  so it credited £25 to Mr Ms account. But it was satisfied that correct 
information had been reported  to Mr Ms credit file, it had been unable  to locate any 
evidence that his account had ever been  closed  and it was unable  to agree that he wasnt 
able to make  payments  towards his account.
Mr M has provided screen shots  of pages from his account and a screen shot from a credit 
reference agencys website which shows that his Vanquis Bank credit card account had 
been closed in February 2019. Mr M also made a complaint to this service  about that credit 
reference agency  but that complaint wasnt upheld.
Our investigator considered in detail the issues that Mr M had raised.  He concluded  that 
Vanquis Bank had managed Mr Ms account correctly but there were some  customer service 
issues that warranted compensation of £75. He said that the late payments that might  be 
affecting Mr Ms credit record came from the missed payments from July 2019  onwards and 
there was no evidence to show that Vanquis Bank had incorrectly reported his information 
and the account was never closed by Vanquis  Bank in February  or May 2019.
Mr M has asked  for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary,  
that he was told in January 2018 that the account  had been  closed when he moved house, 
he has screenshots of all of the things that have gone wrong that he can provide (but hes 
not done so) and hes made  a subject access request to this service (which  has been 
responded to).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05125872Mr M clearly feels very upset and frustrated about  the way that his account has been  dealt 
with by Vanquis Bank  particularly as information  has been recorded  on his credit file 
showing that his account was closed  in February 2019 but his complaint about the credit  
reference agency hasnt been  upheld and our investigator considered  that Vanquis Bank 
hadnt reported that his account had been closed. 
Like the investigator, I dont consider that theres enough evidence to show  that Vanquis 
Bank has closed Mr Ms credit card account  and Im not persuaded that its likely that it 
would have informed  the credit reference agencies that his account had been closed. Nor 
am I persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that it has dealt with the payments 
from Mr M incorrectly or that its payment system hasnt operated correctly. 
There have been  some customer service failings by Vanquis Bank, including that it didnt 
fully respond to Mr Ms complaint in August 2019 and that he didnt receive a call-back from 
a manager. Those failings  will have caused Mr M distress and inconvenience. I agree with 
our investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Vanquis Bank to pay him £75 to 
compensate him for that distress and inconvenience. 
Thats in addition to the £25 that it says that its credited to his account and the £12 over-limit 
charge that it offered  to waive. So if the £25 hasnt been paid to Mr M or the £12 charge 
hasnt been waived, I consider that Vanquis Bank  should also arrange for those payments to 
be made.
Mr M has complained about a wide range  of issues over several years but, other  than those 
customer service  issues, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence  to show that 
Vanquis Bank has acted  incorrectly in its dealings with him about his credit card account.  So, 
other than the compensation  set out above,  I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances  for me to require Vanquis  Bank  to pay any other  compensation to Mr M 
or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and I order Vanquis Bank Limited  to pay 
him £75 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2021.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0512587