K821x#15complaint
Mr D says the advice  given and the arrangements  made by The Wealth Partnership (TWP) 
to transfer his occupational pension fund into a Sippcentre (AJ Bell) Self-invested  Personal 
Pension (SIPP), facilitating  an unregulated  investment  was unsuitable.
background
Mr D was a member of the NEC Staff Pension  an occupational pension scheme (OPS). 
Hed accrued pension benefits  as an employee  between July 1993 and March  2002. These 
deferred benefits wouldve become payable when he was 65. And they were protected by 
guarantees, for example  regular increases to the value of his fund until his scheme  
retirement date (SRD).
In common with some other  OPS  providers at the time, the financial position of Mr Ds 
scheme had deteriorated because of factors such as increasing life expectancy and lower 
than expected investment returns.  A plan was put in place to improve  the position,  including  
increased contributions  from the employer. In addition, members  with deferred benefits were  
consulted about  transferring out of the scheme.
On 13 January 2010, the OPS administrator wrote  to Mr D setting out the position. It noted  
that the scheme had been providing  reduced transfer valuations to help manage the fund 
deficit. In his case the transfer value of his pension benefits - had he wanted to move his 
fund at that moment  were said to have been reduced by around £5,000. But the 
administrator said if Mr D were to transfer  out of the scheme it would top-up this reduced 
value by around £8,000. In addition, it would pay him an additional £2,000  cash  sum which 
he could use however he wanted.
OPS provide valuable  benefits, so a decision to transfer out of a scheme is a big decision. 
The company put in place  provision for regulated  independent financial advice and 
undertook to meet the cost of any advice to members about the proposal.
Mr Ds representative says that around  the same time, he received  a cold-call from Mr B 
who represented himself  as working  for Overseas  Asset Finance, which was a non-regulated  
business. TWP says Mr D and Mr B attended  the same local business group. In any case, it 
is Mr B who introduced Mr D to the idea of investing in overseas property, specifically  the 
Cyprus (Two) Limited  (CTL) proposal.
TWPs initial  contact with Mr D is recorded  on its fact-find  document  as 13 January 2010. 
Given this is the same  date as the letter he received from the administrator of his OPS, the 
apparent chronology here is a little odd. But certainly, matters to do with Mr Ds pension 
across the administrator,  the unregulated investment adviser and TWP  moved at pace and 
seemingly in parallel.
TWP met with Mr D on 17 February  2010. Its purpose was to gather facts about his personal 
and financial  circumstances and objectives. This included  consideration of his pension  
arrangements. TWP  issued a suitability report on 3 March 2010. This noted:
At the present  time, your prime objective  is to examine the merits or otherwise of moving  
the retirement benefits you have with a former employer with the intention of investing in an 
overseas property investment.
Ref: DRN09272832Ultimately Mr D was persuaded  to transfer  his OPS  benefits into a SIPP with AJ Bell, which  
enabled him to transact with CTL. I can see from his SIPP account  statements that £36,603  
was transferred in from his former  scheme on 30 July 2010.  An investment of £30,000 in 
CTL was executed  on 9 August 2010  for which he received 30 shares in that entity. And 
TWP received its fee for £1200 three days later.
Mr D told us that he became aware  there might be a problem when AJ Bell contacted  him in 
December 2016  to say it was valuing his investment  as worth £1. This was after several 
years of reporting its value as £30,000. He complained to TWP about what  had happened 
and the serious  financial  loss he was facing. Mr Ds representative said that in giving  him 
advice about and making arrangements  for the SIPP and facilitating the investment in 
overseas property, TWP failed in its regulatory duties.
TWP says it didnt  give Mr D advice about the investment in overseas property. It says hed 
retained another financial adviser for that purpose. Its role had simply been to identify  a 
SIPP provider to satisfy  his objectives. TWP says it didnt discuss Mr Ds investment 
intentions and had no knowledge of the CTL proposition.  It says this is borne out by the 
contents of the suitability  report.
TWP noted Mr Ds desire to receive  a cash payment from his OPS settlement to assist  with 
his new business  ventures.  He wanted to control his pension  monies  and have access  to the 
widest range  of investment choices. And he wanted  to take a higher risk with the potential for 
increasing his retirement fund.
The investigator upheld  Mr Ds complaint identifying failings with TWPs  advice and the 
arrangements it made. TWP disagreed and so his case  has been passed  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Wheres theres conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties  have provided lots of information  and argument about the events complained  
about. Ive not provided a detailed response  to all the points raised.  Thats deliberate; ours is 
an informal service for resolving disputes  between financial businesses  and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart  of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr Ds case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by TWP for Mr D. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must  adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence
Ref: DRN09272833-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly
In British Bankers  Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011]  EWHC  999 
(Admin), Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever-present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied  with. The Specific rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them.  They are but specific  applications  of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach  
a view on a case without  taking the Principles into account in deciding  what  would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory  duty without having regard to 
the sort of high-level principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms like TWP. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone  has transferred their occupational pension  benefits, 
I look at their circumstances at the time.  Why were  they interested  in transferring? Were  
those wants or needs reasonable? And so, should  the adviser have recommended  the 
transfer?
Each case is different,  but Id expect the transfer  to be in Mr Ds best interests to make  the 
advice suitable.  And in this regard, Id expect  to see a comparison was made between  his 
old pension  and the new one.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial  Services  Authority, 
published a checklist  for pension  switching  that I think is still helpful  today. It highlighted  four 
key issues it thought should be focussed  on:
-Charges - has the consumer been  switched  to a pension that is more expensive  than 
their existing  one(s) or a stakeholder  pension, without good reason?
Ref: DRN09272834-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include  the loss of ongoing  contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits  early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance  about  unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report. Although issued after the advice  given  to Mr D, this report was a reiteration 
of existing guidance.
The report  contained  examples of good  practice  in relation to unregulated investments, for 
example where  a firm had robust  controls in place and limited  client exposure to 3% to 5% of 
their portfolios, where  those clients had been  assessed as being  suitable for unregulated 
investments. An example  of bad practice  given by the FCA was where up to 100% of a 
clients holdings were  invested in a single  UCIS  (unregulated collective  investment  scheme).
Even if the CTL investment wasnt technically  a UCIS, it is unregulated and shares similar 
characteristics including  the high-risk nature of the investment, it being illiquid, subject to 
counter-party risk and uncertain valuation. So, I think these matters are relevant to my 
consideration.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs.  For 
example, in January 2013 it issued  an industry alert which said:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to [SIPPs] that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid  unregulated  investments
Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Although  the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr D, it wasnt new guidance; it was 
the regulator re-stating its position.
Ref: DRN09272835did TWP adhere  to the regulatory  requirements placed on it?
In short,  I dont think TWP met the regulatory requirements placed  on it. Ill explain why.
There are several documents from TWPs advice process that are important to my 
consideration, these  include a financial planning questionnaire, a pension transfer 
questionnaire and analysis and the suitability report.
TWP had to obtain  information  from Mr D in order to understand essential  facts about him. In 
order to advise him to transfer his OPS fund into the SIPP  with AJ Bell and facilitate 
investment in the CTL venture, it had to believe that:
-The service or recommended transaction met Mr Ds investment objectives (including  
his attitude to risk, the purpose of investing  and how long he wanted to invest  for).
-Mr D was able to financially withstand  the investment  risks.
-Mr D had the necessary experience or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
TWP hasnt met these obligations.
At the time of TWPs advice Mr D was self-employed, married  and had two dependent 
children. He was 38 years  old when the pension transfer happened. He was earning  about  
£36,000 a year and had a mortgage. He wanted  to retire when he was 65. Unfortunately,  I 
cant see that a detailed analysis of his income, outgoings, assets  and liabilities was 
conducted  a precarious position from which to proceed to give advice about such  an 
important transaction.
The suitability report TWP produced for Mr D said the main  objective of its advice was 
(bolding is my emphasis):
to examine the merits or otherwise  of moving the retirement  benefits with a former 
employer with the intention of investing in an overseas property investment.
Given that TWP  told this Service  it had no knowledge of Mr Ds investment  intentions,  this 
extract demonstrates the opposite was true.
The responses Mr D makes  in both the financial  planning and pension  transfer 
questionnaires might appear  underinformed or even  contradictory. Thats not a criticism  - Im 
not surprised by his responses  because most of us are not expert in pension matters  which  
can be complicated. It was TWPs role to get to grips with Mr Ds situation  and advise  him 
properly, so he was able to take effective decisions.
For example, I cant see that TWP helped Mr D to understand the situation with his OPS 
better. It was clearly an issue because he notes:
I have concerns  about my employers  financial  position after recent  correspondence.  I would  
prefer if the benefits were  not under [its] control
I think it wouldve been important for TWP to have  contextualised the situation for Mr D. For 
example, his OPS  was not in a unique position  of being in deficit. His former employer and 
the pension trustees  had plans in place to improve the situation, including  increasing 
contributions. And Mr D wouldve benefited from the insurance of the Pension Protection 
Fund. I havent seen  enough evidence that TWP helped Mr D understand the situation.
Ref: DRN09272836Mr D affirmed  that his top priority was to increase his pension.  But in the questionnaire,  its 
also noted:
[Mr D] does  not wish to commit further  monies to a pension fund and takes the view 
therefore that he would be prepared to take a more  adventurous view on the investment 
side. He may want to consider a more exotic type of investment.
I can guess at what lays behind these apparently conflicting positions. But I think these 
matters shouldve been clearly teased  out, resolved and reported  on in the suitability report.
I note that in the financial planning questionnaire  Mr Ds attitude  to risk is assessed in the 
second highest category: 
Moderately Adventurous  Investor is generally market aware and understands and is willing  
to accept a higher level of risk (including  a small exposure to overseas markets) in return for 
the potential for higher returns in the longer term. They recognise that this may result  in the 
value of their portfolio  fluctuating, possibly  significantly, in the short  term.
In the pension transfer questionnaire Mr Ds attitude  to investment risk is recorded as being 
even higher  in the top category. It notes individuals  with this outlook  would  invest in areas 
including specialist equity  funds and specific markets. 
I have concerns about the risk appetite and assessment  process that was followed by TWP.  
The questionnaire responses concerning Mr Ds risk appetite suggest a desire to take on 
considerably more risk than he was exposed to in his OPS. But Ive not seen the sort of 
detailed framework of questions which I would expect to see to underpin these summary 
assessments.
And theres  no commentary  to indicate  how two seemingly different summary assessments 
of Mr Ds risk appetite have been  arrived at, nor which  was correct.
Further, Mr Ds representative has told us about  his risk outlook:
both at the time of the advice and now he would describe himself as a low risk investor. 
He has no experience of investments and no other pensions or savings to fall back on in the 
event he suffered losses. As far as he was concerned TWP told him the investment was 
safe.
Im mindful of course  that this testimony  comes  somewhat after the event. But other 
information that was captured at the time corroborates much  of what Mr D says here  as Ill 
explore further.
Further, when I review  the suitability report issued by TWP on 3 March 2010 and the 
supplement that followed  two days  later, I dont  think the risks of transferring Mr Ds OPS 
funds into a SIPP enabling unregulated investments  was adequately considered.  The first 
suitability report simply states:
You are happy to accept  a greater degree of risk in exchange for the possibility of a higher 
return in retirement.
Ref: DRN09272837A list of generic  risks associated with the transaction is provided  towards  the end of the 
report. These included  that past performance  was no guarantee of future  returns and Mr Ds 
future income in retirement could be less than his previous OPS wouldve provided for.
TWPs supplementary communication to Mr D did provide  further health warnings,  for 
example:
Whilst it is possible to invest  into a wide range of differing assets  within a SIPP and whilst 
you want to take advantage  of this range of choice we have recommended  that you limit 
your exposure to nonstandard assets to 15% of your overall  portfolio.
Given that it knew Mr D was considering the investment with CTL, Im surprised  that more  
specific warnings around  liquidity, counterparties,  development and valuation  were not 
brought to his attention  clearly and up-front.
So, on balance, I think the risk appetite assigned to Mr D and the risk assessment of the 
transfer of his OPS  fund to a SIPP to facilitate  unregulated investment were  both unsafe.
My conclusion here is bolstered by whats recorded  about Mr Ds knowledge of financial and 
investment matters. For example, he had no experience of dealing  with personal pension  
contracts, SIPPs, shares, lump sum investment bonds, derivatives etc. Actually, the 
substance of Mr Ds experience of financial products was holding  bank  accounts  over the 
previous 20 years and investment in an Individual  Savings Account.
And yet, as TWP knew, Mr D was contemplating an investment in overseas  property.  
Theres no indication that he was an experienced or sophisticated investor,  so Im surprised 
it didnt get to grips  with this more effectively. Its not clear from the paperwork Ive seen  
exactly where Mr Ds funds have been invested, and what if anything he owns as a result.
Im also concerned that Mr Ds capacity  for loss doesnt appear to have  been  fully thought 
through. Although he had another 27 years  to work  before  his planned retirement  date, he 
was being advised to transfer his entire pension provision at that time in the knowledge of 
his intention to invest it in a high-risk unregulated venture. 
Mr D was putting a decade of contributions at risk and doesnt appear  to have had other  
investments or savings  to fall back on. His business  projects appear to have been at an early 
stage and so prospects  wouldve been  uncertain.
At the end of the financial planning  questionnaire TWP  note:
[Mr D] is self-employed  and does not believe in pensions. He has a final salary scheme  
NEC, which has written offering a cash incentive to transfer out. Client  is keen to access  
money. Looking to put no more money into pension  and wants  to take a more aggressive 
approach. 
Its noted that Mr D wanted to use the £2,000 cash incentive to support his business 
projects. But theres no detail here. Was this a pressing need or simply that the cash  would 
come in useful? Theres no commentary  about other short-term business financing  options 
available to him which are likely to have been  more appropriate because they were outside 
the deliberations about his long-term pension arrangements.
Ref: DRN09272838Taking these matters together, its arguable TWP was more concerned with facilitating  what 
Mr D wanted to do with his valuable OPS benefits  and less so in providing effective advice 
about what was in his interests.  But it was being paid a lot of money  to provide best advice.
The suitability report TWP sent to Mr D did outline the potential impact  on his pension  
provision of transferring  his OPS funds. For example, it identified the critical yield  thats the 
average annual  investment  return required  on his pension  transfer  value from the time of 
advice until retirement, to secure the same  value that his deferred  benefits pension wouldve 
delivered.
This showed that if Mr D was to retire at 65 (his SRD), then the return required from his SIPP  
arrangement would need to be 7.3%  per year (assuming he didnt take tax-free cash).  And if 
he wanted to retire at 60, then this increased to 7.7%. TWP noted that this was an 
achievable return based on how long before it was before Mr D retired. On the face of it, this 
was a reasonable statement as far as it went.
The problem is TWPs advice was predicated on Mr D having an appetite for risk that was at 
the top of the scale; but as weve seen he wasnt experienced  in investment matters and his 
capacity for loss was limited. Its also significant that Mr D ended  up putting all his funds into 
a single asset, that lack of diversification  further  exposing his position  (and at odds  with the 
supplementary letter it sent to him). As Ive already set-out, TWP hasnt  done  enough to 
satisfy me on these matters.
Its clear Mr D was referred to TWP for advice about  moving his OPS  fund to a SIPP so he 
could invest in high risk overseas property. TWP knew  what  he was contemplating, but says 
it wasn't responsible  for the investment  advice.
I disagree with the argument TWP makes here. The regulatory position is clear.  It had a duty 
to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of Mr D. And to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable.  It couldnt do this without considering the 
suitability of the investments being  proposed.
My conclusion here is supported by the alert issued by the then regulator in January  2013. 
And although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr D, it wasnt new guidance; it 
was the regulator re-stating the position.
TWP couldnt ignore Mr Ds intention of investing  in overseas property. If it didnt consider 
this to be suitable in his circumstances, it should  have said so - rather than presuming that 
the transfer was necessary for this to happen.  It had a duty to consider the suitability of the 
whole transaction,  not simply limit its advice to choosing  the best SIPP provider.
Mr D was transferring his entire pension funds to the SIPP  and unregulated investments. 
Theres no duty of care exhibited here by TWP in terms of understanding  his capacity to 
withstand losses. The investment was high risk and posed liquidity issues.  And theres  no 
evidence he was a sophisticated investor.
TWP couldnt seek to exclude or restrict any duty or liability it had to Mr D. It had an 
obligation to consider the suitability of the investment he was considering, and it couldnt  
avoid this by asking Mr D to sign terms of business  instructing  it to only consider the 
pension switch in isolation, or by implying  such in documentation like the suitability report.
The suitability report TWP produced for Mr D said:
Ref: DRN09272839Based on these levels of critical yield and your view that you would rather have control  of 
the money and that you may also receive a cash payment then I believe that a transfer to 
some form of personal pension would  be suitable. 
I would recommend that you transfer your benefits  to a Self-Invested Personal Pension plan 
based on your current circumstances, and the results of the TVAS report. 
TWP shouldve provided Mr D with an explicit recommendation  not to proceed  with the 
switch of his pension funds into the AJ Bell SIPP, the purpose  of which was to invest  all his 
pension plan funds  into unregulated overseas property. It failed to do this.
Instead, TWP  made arrangements for the switch of Mr Ds OPS  fund into the SIPP.  The 
application has its adviser authorisation details. It enabled transmission of the necessary 
applications. In doing so, it led AJ Bell to believe Mr D had been properly advised.
In doing all this, TWP  was aware Mr D was being exposed  to significant risks in the 
investments it was facilitating.  It knew these funds could be illiquid, meaning Mr D might 
have difficulty getting access to his pension funds.  The investment was specialised,  out of 
the ordinary and reliant on third parties. And it was subject to valuation  uncertainty.
I think its unlikely that if TWP  had given Mr D effective advice the wouldve gone ahead with 
the transfer from his OPS  to the SIPP and the unregulated investment. Its unusual for a 
customer to go against the recommendation of professional advice they receive.
On the matter of the duty of care TWP owed Mr D there are examples where it falls short. 
For example, it notes Mr B provided Mr D with advice about the alternative investment he 
wanted to make. But it wouldve been aware,  or shouldve been,  that Mr B didnt work for a 
regulated firm.
I dont think TWP took enough interest in getting to the bottom of Mr Bs role. And I cant see 
its drawn Mr Ds attention to the significant  downside of dealing  with unregulated individuals. 
In my view, this shouldve  put TWP on alert that it was even more important that it 
understood his objectives and circumstances properly. Rather, as Ive already noted, it 
seems to have skirted around some important matters here.
Even if Mr D attended the same local business group as Mr B as noted by TWP, I dont think  
this shows Mr D wouldve followed Mr Bs advice rather than TWPs  in the event it had made 
an explicit recommendation not to proceed. Ive not seen  telling  evidence  of Mr Bs influence 
over Mr D. And unfortunately  for TWP it didnt advise Mr D not to go ahead. And theres  no 
insistent client paperwork showing Mr D wanted  to proceed irrespective of the advice it gave.
TWP says that Mr D received an incentive from his former OPS to proceed  with the transfer. 
It says this was important to Mr B in supporting his business projects.  Although Ive no doubt 
the £2,000 cash sum Mr D received  as a result of making the transfer  was a significant and 
welcome boost, I dont find this telling.  I dont think this short-term bonus wouldve been  the 
key factor  in his decision making about  his long-term pension arrangements.  
Having said this, I do think its fair for TWP  to make an adjustment to the redress due to Mr 
D to reflect  that he benefitted from what happened. Because  as Ive concluded that I dont 
think he wouldve transferred his OPS had he received  a recommendation not to proceed, it 
follows he wouldnt have benefitted from this payment.
Ref: DRN092728310To conclude  I dont think the transfer  of Mr Ds occupational pension funds into the AJ Bell 
SIPP and the investment  in the unregulated CTL venture could sensibly be regarded as fair 
to him. As such I think TWP failed  to meet the regulatory requirements when providing  him 
with advice and making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against  TWP and for it to put things right.
putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ds case. So, he needs  to be returned to the position he wouldve  been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been  for the failures  which I hold 
TWP responsible for.
If TWP had done everything it shouldve, I dont  think Mr D wouldve transferred  his 
occupational pension fund into the AJ Bell SIPP,  and so he wouldnt have  suffered  the 
financial loss hes facing.  I think its most likely he wouldve left his pension where it was.
So, TWP  needs to put things right in the following way:
1. Calculate the loss Mr D has suffered as a result of making the transfer
TWP should undertake a redress  calculation in line with the Pension Review methodology, 
as amended by the FCA in October 2017.  This calculation should be carried  out using the 
most recent financial assumptions published at the date of the actual calculation.
TWP will need  to contact the Department for Work and Pensions to obtain  Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include any SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  which  will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
 
The calculation should take account of the value  of any cash  held in the SIPP  currently.
My understanding is that Mr D hasnt taken any tax-free cash or drawdowns,  nor has he 
made any additional contributions.
The adjusted, as appropriate,  like for like difference between the notional  value of Mr Ds 
former occupational pension  and the current value of his SIPP  (see step 2) will be his basic  
financial loss that TWP  needs to redress.
TWP can also make an adjustment for the incentive payment of £2,000  that Mr D received 
for transferring his pension. Thats because my conclusion is that with effective advice this 
wouldnt have happened, and it follows he wouldnt have received that payment.
2. Pay a commercial  value to buy any investments which cannot currently  be redeemed
To close Mr Ds SIPP and avoid  ongoing  fees, the investments need to be crystallised. To do 
this TWP should ask the SIPP provider to determine  an amount its willing to accept as a 
commercial value for the investments  and TWP can then pay this to take ownership of them.
Ref: DRN092728311If TWP is unwilling or unable  to purchase the investments, the value should  be assumed to 
be nil for the purposes  of the loss calculation.  In this instance, where  TWP has provided full 
redress in accordance with my instructions,  then it may ask Mr D to provide an undertaking 
to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from the 
investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount he may receive from the investment  and any eventual sums he would be able to 
access from the SIPP.
TWP will need  to meet any costs in drawing  up this undertaking.
3. Pay an amount into Mr Ds SIPP so that the transfer value is increased by the loss 
calculated (resulting from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for 
tax 
If compensation is paid into Mr Ds SIPP, payment should allow  for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief,  so that he is in the same  position as if hed stayed in his original 
occupational pension scheme.  
If paying compensation into Mr Ds SIPP would conflict  with any existing protection  or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and TWP takes  on his investments, then it should pay 
him compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
25% of the loss should be tax-free,  and the remaining  75% taxed according to Mr Ds likely 
income tax rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 
15% overall  from the loss adequately reflects this.
 
4. SIPP  fees
If the investments arent removed from Mr Ds SIPP, and it remains open after compensation 
has been paid,  TWP  should pay him an amount equivalent to five years  of future fees.  This 
should allow  enough time for the issues with the investments  to be dealt with, and for them  
to be removed from the SIPP.
If, after five years, TWP wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for 
any future payments  under the investment, it must  agree  to pay any further future  SIPP fees.  
If TWP fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mr D should  then have  the option  of trying to cancel  the 
investments to allow the plan to be closed.
5. Trouble and upset
I also think Mr D has been caused  upset as a result  of TWPs actions.  The sudden loss of 
his pension funds  wouldve  come as a shock to him and has clearly  had a significant impact.  
In recognition of this it should pay him £300 for the trouble and upset hes experienced. 
my decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. I require The Wealth 
Partnership to pay the redress  Ive detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 September  2020.
Ref: DRN092728312Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0927283