K820x#14complaint
In summary  Mrs P has complained that as a result of Barclays Bank UK PLC not setting up a 
fraud claim  when she contacted it, in December 2017; she lost the ability  to pursue a debt for 
£12,000 on behalf of her late husbands  company. 
background
In October  2017 Mrs P applied to Companies House for an extension of time to enable her 
to file accounts for her late husbands company. She wanted to keep the company in place 
so that she could pursue a substantial debt owing to it in the sum of £12,000.
In the same  month  Mrs P instructed C, a debt recovery firm to recover  the debt. She paid it 
£1,500 and became concerned when no progress was made. So she contacted  Barclays on 
4 December 2017 and explained her concerns.
Barclays didnt take any further action until Mrs P contacted them again in January  2018. 
Barclays then contacted Cs bank who informed them that the monies wouldnt be returned.
Mrs P complained to Barclays.  It apologised  that her concerns hadnt  been raised with Cs 
bank in December  2017. It paid her £1500 in respect of the fee she had paid to C and £500  
for the inconvenience  and upset she had been  caused.
Mrs P remained dissatisfied and complained again to Barclays. It reviewed her complaint 
and accepted she hadnt been provided with good  service from it. It paid her £6,000 in 
compensation which was half of the debt she was looking  to recover on behalf of her late 
husbands company.  Mrs P subsequently complained  to Barclays  again  about this issue.  It 
reviewed her concerns  again and said that the payment  it had made was generous - and it 
wouldnt be making any further payments.
Mrs Ps complaint was looked into by one of our investigators.  In summary she thought  
Barclays could have  provided a better service to Mrs P, but she believed  it had paid Mrs P 
very reasonable compensation for the poor service  she received. And she didnt think  
Barclays was responsible for her not being able to recover the debt.  So she didnt think 
Barclays needed to do anything else. Mrs P didnt agree so the case has been passed  to me 
for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Having considered all of the evidence  provided  to me including  the phone  calls Mrs P had 
with Barclays, its clear  that she has been through a very difficult time over the last few 
years. And the contact  she has had from Barclays and the service received from it, hasnt 
always been of a standard she might be entitled  to expect.
Having listened  to the call recordings provided  by Barclays,  Im satisfied Mrs P raised with it 
in December 2017, her concerns about a payment of £1,500 she had made to C; to recover  
the debt owing to her late husbands company. And I think  from what Ive heard that taking 
Ref: DRN05801592into account what Mrs P told its call handlers, Barclays  should  have registered her fraud 
concerns when she first contacted it in December  2017. 
Barclays accepts it should have acted sooner in registering Mrs Ps request. It offered her 
compensation which I think was more than enough  to compensate  her for the delays it 
caused and the poor service it gave her. I say this because it in effect paid her the fee she 
had paid to C which she was trying to recover  - and an additional £500 compensation for the 
inconvenience and upset caused  by its delays. 
Mrs P has also complained that as a result  of the delays in registering her fraud claim, she 
was prejudiced in pursuing the £12,000 debt on behalf of her late husbands company. 
Barclays also looked at this complaint. And it agreed to pay her a further  £6,000 in 
compensation. But having accepted this figure Mrs P didnt think  it was enough and looked 
to Barclays to pay her the remaining £6,000 she was looking to recover.
Ive thought very carefully about the deadline  Mrs P says she was facing to keep her late 
husbands company open  so she could pursue the debt on its behalf. It seems  the problem 
Mrs P was facing was that she had an extended deadline of 28 February  2018  to file 
accounts for her late husbands company with companys house. And the e-mail of 
17 January 2018  from Companies House provided by Mrs P confirms  this. 
It doesnt appear to me that Mrs Ps late husbands company would necessarily have been 
dissolved when the deadline expired if accounts werent filed. But penalties may have 
applied if they werent.  And I think if Mrs P was having difficulties in preparing a final set of 
accounts, the e-mail did explain  that accounts  based on estimated  figures  could be provided 
with a suitable explanatory note. So that was an option open to her.
In a document sent to our service on 3 October  2018, Mrs P has said that filing of the 
accounts wasnt the issue as the company had no accounts to submit. She went on to say 
the company was only open to pursue the debt and that once the company was closed the 
debt couldnt legally  be pursued. 
Ive checked the records  on Companies  House register for her late husbands company. This 
shows that Mrs P was a director  of the company and it wasnt  dissolved until 5 June 2018. 
And the application  to strike  off the company was made by Mrs P. So it seems to me that 
Mrs P had time to pursue  the claim before the company was dissolved.  As a result I dont 
think Barclays was responsible for Mrs P not being able to pursue the claim. 
Also given Mrs Ps difficult financial circumstances, I cant safely say that she would have 
been in a financial position  to pursue  the claim through the courts  on behalf of her late 
husbands company.  And even if she had been able to do so, I simply dont have enough 
evidence to conclude  that any claim for the debt owing to her late husbands company would 
have been successful. Or, even  if a claim had been successful; that she would have been 
able to enforce  any court  order.
I do understand that Mrs P will be very disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons 
Ive set out above I think Barclays has been  very generous in paying her the compensation 
that it has. So I dont think it needs  to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN05801593Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0580159