K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays Bank UK plc (trading under its Barclaycard brand) wont 
refund five transactions made using her credit  card. All the transactions were made in Hong 
Kong, and the total amount spent was over £11,600. Shes been represented in this 
complaint by her husband, Mr A. 
background
Mrs As Barclaycard was used to make five purchases on the same day in October 2017, all 
of them  in Hong  Kong. Mrs A says she was in the UK at the time, and received a call from 
Barclaycard which  was cut off before  there was any real discussion. She says shes  never  
been to Hong Kong. 
Mrs A says she found out about the payments in Hong Kong when she tried to make  the 
monthly minimum monthly payment in a phone call to Barclaycard. She said that she still 
had the card and that nobody else knew the PIN. She later signed the banks fraud 
declaration, repeating that. 
Barclaycard said that the payments were flagged up by its fraud  monitoring  systems and that 
it sent a text message to Mrs As mobile  phone. When it received no reply it tried  
unsuccessfully  to call her on that number and on her landline.  It tried to contact  her again 
the following  day but was told she was no longer available on the number it was using. It 
wrote to her asking her to get in touch, but the transactions  were processed in the meantime. 
When it investigated further, Barclaycard said that the payments had been made using Mrs 
As genuine card with the correct PIN. Since Mrs A had said she kept the PIN secret and that 
she had the card when  she later found  out about  them, it concluded that she must have 
made them herself or allowed  someone  else to make them.  
Mrs A referred the matter to this service,  with Mr As help. There  was evidence that Mrs A 
had used a different card in the UK on the day of the disputed transactions.  In addition, Mr A 
provided a copy of his work timesheet, indicating that he was at work at the time. 
They also speculated  that workmen who had been in their house  for a few weeks might  have  
been responsible. And Mr A provided  what he said was a police report  from India, indicating  
that someone they had encountered on a visit there had admitted taking Mrs As 
Barclaycard. 
One of our adjudicators considered the case but concluded that Barclaycard was entitled to 
hold Mrs A liable  for the transactions. There was, he said, no explanation  as to how some 
else could have used  Mrs As card in Hong Kong without  her authority. Mrs A didnt accept 
those conclusions and, through  Mr A, asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator did, and for similar reasons. 
The banks records of the transactions indicate that the genuine card was used, together  
with the correct PIN. They show that the chip embedded  in the card was read on each 
occasion, and I accept that it was. Whilst its possible to produce a clone  of a card by 
Ref: DRN01330062copying its magnetic  stripe, producing a copy of the electronic chip is a different  matter 
entirely. Mrs A says,  and I accept, that she didnt keep  a record  of her PIN. She hasnt 
changed it since the first notification of it when she opened the Barclaycard account. The 
PIN isnt kept in unencrypted  form on the card itself, however, and I think it unlikely that 
someone could  have guessed what it was. 
Mrs A has been insistent that she has never  visited Hong Kong. There is however very 
persuasive evidence  that her card  meaning  the genuine card, not a copy or clone   was 
used there  in October 2017. 
There is also evidence, however, that the debit card linked to Mrs As current account (which 
isnt with Barclays) was used on the same day in the UK. I accept that it was Mrs A who 
used it, and that she was not therefore  in Hong Kong with her Barclaycard.  
But Mrs A has also said  and I accept  that she had her card when she found out about 
the disputed payments. (She  clarified  that she couldnt be sure she had it on the day of the 
payments, but it seems  unlikely.) So whoever used it must  have  returned  from Hong Kong 
and then gone to the trouble  of returning the card to her. I think it follows that they must have 
been someone known to Mrs A, although  she says she knows of nobody who was in Hong 
Kong at the time. 
Mr A has produced a copy of a timesheet indicating that he was at work when the payments 
were made. I have no reason to think that isnt a genuine document. 
Mr and Mrs A have  said its possible  workmen at their house were  involved, and have 
produced copies of invoices  showing that they had work done  on their house.  But that was 
more than a year earlier, and I think its most unlikely that anyone taking the card in those 
circumstances would  have waited a year and then taken the card to Hong Kong before trying  
to use it. And I think Mrs A would have  noticed it was missing  in that time. Its even less likely 
that they would then return it.
Mr A also produced what he said was an Indian  police  report  that someone had admitted to 
taking the card. But the report doesnt suggest  any link to Hong  Kong and was made  a year 
later. It also gives the wrong card number,  using that of Mrs As replacement card, not the 
one used for the payments. Whether  or not its genuine and whatever the circumstances of 
its production, that report is, in my view, of limited assistance. 
Mrs A has also questioned why the transactions werent flagged  as potentially fraudulent. In 
fact, they were, and Barclaycard says it tried to contact her to verify them. When it got no 
response, it let them through. 
She says too that the final payment took her over her credit limit and should have been 
blocked. Barclaycard  is however entitled  to treat card use that would take an account  over its 
limit as a request  to increase that limit. I dont agree that it was required to stop any 
transactions that would  take the account over its credit limit. It has a discretion to allow  them. 
As Ive indicated, I accept  that Mrs A was in the UK and did not make the payments in Hong 
Kong herself. But whoever made them had her card and knew her PIN; they returned the 
card later. I think it more  likely than not that they had the card with Mrs As knowledge and 
consent. At the very least, I believe Mrs A knows rather more about  the payments than she 
has told the bank  or this service. In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to make 
Barclaycard refund them.  
Ref: DRN01330063my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything more to resolve  
Mrs As complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0133006