K820x#14complaint
L, a trust,  complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc made threats to close  its account and caused  it 
inconvenience.
background
HSBC contacted L for information as part of a safeguard review to protect  customers from 
fraud and financial  crime. It offered L £500  in compensation for the poor service  during this 
review. It had frozen its account even though all the required  information had been provided. 
L did not accept this as it was unhappy  with the way the process  operated and wanted 
significantly higher  compensation.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that HSBC  do more than it had offered to. He said that 
HSBC had a legitimate  right to ask for this information. He did not think  L had been 
threatened. HSBC  was a large organisation and so L had been  in contact with a number  of 
different members of staff. Unfortunately one form of identification L had provided was out of 
date. HSBC had then confirmed it had all the information only then to freeze  the account. He 
thought the amount of compensation offered was reasonable for the inconvenience caused.
L did not agree. Its representative said that L was told to conform to the demands of HSBC 
or the account would  be closed. He saw that as a threat.  There had been a banking 
relationship with HSBC over a number of years  so he saw the process  as unreasonable.  L 
dealt with all requests for information honestly and promptly.  The representative had to make  
phone calls from abroad and dealt with four different members of staff.  L also received  
letters from 10 different  individuals. It did not see how information about the trust could be 
kept confidential as it had been assured. Any reasonable  examination  of the evidence  would 
show that the compensation was not sufficient.
L has also complained about  a further  review  from HSBC this year and which  has resulted in 
the account being closed.  Our adjudicator has explained to L that this is a new complaint 
and that HSBC needs to have a chance to respond  to this before  we can look into it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L says in the information  provided  to this service that this trust was set up in 2009  and was 
then cleared by the legal department of HSBC.  L and its representative have a long 
standing relationship with HSBC so this process is seen as unreasonable.  Providing the 
information is made more  difficult as the representative of L is based  outside the United 
Kingdom.
I understand Ls position about this. But I dont have a basis to find that HSBCs requests for 
information were unreasonable. It explained the purpose of its review  and the information it 
required. 
HSBC first wrote to L about this on 24 November 2017 asking it to book a call within  60 
days. It reminded L about this in letters dated 15 December 2017  and then 8 January 2018. 
The letters said it may need to close the account if a response  was not received by 20 
February 2018. I understand why L perceived this as a threat. Having looked at the tone of 
Ref: DRN00573112the letters and taking into account that this was the possible consequence I dont see these 
letters as inappropriate.
As our adjudicator says L did engage and provided  information about the identity  of those 
individuals involved with L. One identity document was out of date and could  not be 
accepted. This meant that a letter was sent on 21 February 2018 stating that the account 
would be closed on 1 May 2018.  L provided the information and was told that the account  
closure had been  stopped.
But on 1 May 2018  the account was inhibited and this was not removed until 9 May 2018. 
HSBC says that this did not stop any credits  being received. It offered L £500  for the poor 
service.
We dont have a role in saying  what  processes HSBC should operate. And we dont make  
punitive awards. I know L asked for £8,500 in total to reflect what  happened. There was 
always going to be some inconvenience  resulting from this process.  Here  it can be argued 
that HSBC could have been more accommodating  with the out of date identification for an 
individual it already appeared to have a banking relationship with. And so to have allowed 
some more time rather than issuing  a notice to close the account. When all the requirements 
were met it made an error by not stopping the account closure process. While that did not 
result in any direct financial loss it added to the inconvenience caused.
I need to make clear  that I am only looking at the events as part of the safeguard  review  into 
2018. I know that L has made a new complaint about a different review this year which  it 
says has led to the account being closed. That is being considered  by HSBC and I know our 
adjudicator has explained  when we would be in position to look into this.
Ive considered the circumstances  of this complaint and have taken into account our 
published guidelines about compensation. Having  done so and applied  my own judgement I 
think that the offer from HSBC is a reasonable  one to reflect what  happened.  I fully 
appreciate that the representative of L takes  a different view and will be disappointed by my 
decision.
my final decision
HSBC Bank  UK Plc has already made  an offer to pay £500 to settle the complaint and I think  
the offer is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. So my decision is that HSBC Bank 
UK Plc should  pay L £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0057311