K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L are complaining about  their Barclays Bank UK PLC mortgage. In broad terms, 
theyre unhappy that Barclays  didnt accept their proposals and continued with litigation. 
Theyre also unhappy that they speak  to a different staff member  each time and they cant  
meet face to face with a senior member  of the litigation  team.
background 
Mr and Mrs Ls original mortgage  term ended many years ago, in September 2010.  Since  
then thereve been various complaints raised;  two of which were rejected by my ombudsman 
colleagues in April 2014 and September 2017, and the third I rejected in March 2018. 
The first complaint was that Barclays wouldnt allow Mr and Mrs L a further  term extension  
past the two years it had previously agreed (which ran from September 2010  to 
September 2012). In April 2014,  my ombudsman colleague decided  that was fair and 
therefore found that Barclays didnt  need to allow Mr and Mrs L any more time to repay  their 
overdue mortgage debt.
The second  complaint was that Mr and Mrs L were unhappy that Barclays wouldnt just allow 
them more  time to repay the mortgage and instead  wanted permission to talk to their estate 
agent so it could have oversight of how the sale of the property was progressing. In 
September 2017, my ombudsman colleague  said it wasnt  an unreasonable  request from 
Barclays bearing in mind how long this debt had been overdue.  
The third complaint was that Mr and Mrs L said Barclays  had gone back on its agreement to 
not move  the account to litigation if they gave consent for it to discuss  their house sale 
progress with their estate agent.  I rejected  that complaint in March 2018,  explaining  that as 
Mr and Mrs L had turned down Barclays offer it wasnt bound by it.
As those  decisions were our final say on each of those complaint matters  I wont be looking 
at them  again  here.
This complaint was made  by Mr and Mrs L relatively soon after my March  2018 final decision 
was issued, and again is mainly about Barclays not accepting Mr and Mrs Ls proposals. 
This time Mr and Mrs L said they had £50,000 available  to pay to the mortgage account  
then, with a further  £700,000 to follow before the end of September 2018. They also said 
theyd be looking to pay between £20,000  and £40,000 a month  to the mortgage  account. 
There was also mention of a sale being imminent that was expected  to complete in the 
summer of 2018.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Mr and Mrs L didnt agree. Initially 
they asked for more  time to make some final submissions after consulting  their solicitor, but 
then asked it be put forward to an ombudsman without any final submissions as theyd been 
too busy to put anything  together.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN09891692I trust Mr and Mrs L wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the way 
that I have.  Ours is an informal dispute resolution  service, and Ive concentrated on what  I consider 
to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered  the whole file Ill keep my 
comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point its not because  Ive 
not considered  it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order  to reach  the right 
outcome.
The root of the complaint  is that Mr and Mrs L werent ready to repay their mortgage  when  
the (extended)  term ended in 2012. The only way they could do so was to sell their home. 
Its important to bear in mind that Mr and Mrs L agreed to repay the mortgage at the end of 
the term when  they took it out. Theyre obliged to do so but thus far havent, and thats the 
starting point in determining whats fair in this case.
I understand Mr and Mrs L said they had about £50,000 available  which they were  going to 
use to reduce the mortgage and then a further £700,000 would be paid by the end of 
September 2018. Were now another four months on and neither payment has been 
forthcoming. Nor have  the monthly payments of between  £20,000  and £40,000 Mr and Mrs L 
said they could  make. Whilst  Barclays didnt accept Mr and Mrs Ls request to cancel 
litigation on the basis of those payments there  was nothing  stopping Mr and Mrs L still 
making them if they wanted  to show goodwill and co-operation on their part.
Either way Barclays has already allowed Mr and Mrs L over eight years since  the original 
term ended  (and over six years since the term extension came  to an end) so it seems its 
given plenty of forbearance for Mr and Mrs L to find a way to repay  the debt. I understand a 
sale is currently progressing, but bearing  in mind  Barclays has been told this more  than once  
before and nothing came  of it Im not persuaded that Barclays needs to place litigation on 
hold any longer. Mr and Mrs L will  of course  be free to argue in court that the sale should 
be allowed to proceed.
Barclays has a duty to make sure that any potential hardship being suffered is dealt with 
fairly, making sure all viable options  have been  explored. That said, it doesnt appear that 
financial hardship is what drives Mr and Mrs Ls desire for more time. They have the house  
they can sell to repay the money they owe (which is what they said they intended to do when 
they applied for the mortgage  in 2005);  its just that they prefer  to maximise  the sale price. I 
can understand that, but not allowing them  even  more  time to do this isnt unfair treatment by 
Barclays. Its already waited quite a bit longer for repayment than it agreed to when it first 
granted the mortgage. It doesnt  have to keep waiting indefinitely.
I understand Mr and Mrs L would prefer to deal with one nominated member of staff and 
would like a face to face meeting with a senior member of the litigation team. Whilst they 
have a large debt with Barclays,  that doesnt  give Mr and Mrs L access to a designated 
personal case handler, nor does  it mean  Barclays needs to provide a bespoke  service 
tailored specifically for them.  Im satisfied Barclays hasnt acted inappropriately in telling 
Mr and Mrs L they need to contact  it in the same  way as all its other customers.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I leave it to Mr and Mrs L to decide it now, on reflection, they 
wish to accept the offer of £100  made in Barclays final response  letter  of 27 June 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Ref: DRN09891693Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0989169