K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2005. Miss S says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Miss S says that would never have taken out PPI and that she was unaware it had been 
added. She says she wouldve declined  this type of cover, and she didnt tick any boxes  to 
select it. But I think Capital One made  it clear  that Miss S didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this as it was 
so long ago. 
I say this because  Capital One has been  able to provide a copy of Miss S credit card 
application, which she completed through the post. On this, I can see that the PPI is 
presented as optional  and the choices to decline or select  the policy are equally prominent. 
The PPI has been  selected  and Miss S has then gone on to sign the application form, 
agreeing to the information on it. If Miss S didnt want to take the PPI, she couldve indicated 
as such on her application, and I havent  seen anything to suggest  that the tick selecting the 
policy was added without  her consent. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss S got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss S about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Miss S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN02849042Ive thought about everything Miss S has said - but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2019.  
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0284904