K820x#14complaint
Mrs Z complains that AXA, her motor insurer,  lodged a claim when  she asked about a 
repairer for accident  damage,  and decided she was 50% liable  for the accident.  Mrs Z also 
complained about AXAs  handling of the claim, including poor communications and delays.
background
Mrs Z said that in June 2107 another driver  drove into her car and she called AXA for advice  
about repairers. Mrs Z said that AXA lodged a claim for her - even though she didn't want to 
claim. She said about a year later AXA told her it was holding  her and the other driver 50/50 
liable and this has affected the renewal price of her policy, and her no claims bonus. 
Mrs Z complained to AXA that it hadnt kept her updated throughout the claims process. AXA 
apologised for the delays  and for its solicitors  letter which described the other driver as Mr 
rather than Miss and offered her £150 compensation. Mrs Z wasnt  happy with this and 
complained again about AXAs  decisions  and handling of the claim.
AXA said the other driver held Mrs Z responsible for the accident  and had provided an 
independent witness  statement in support of this. AXA said as it hadnt been able to agree 
liability for the claim it had instructed solicitors  to go to court, but it said Mrs Z had advised 
she was unwilling to do this. AXA said its solicitors said that with the independent witness 
statement the prospect  of recovery wouldnt  be good  and without Mrs Zs agreement AXA 
couldnt pursue  the case. AXA said its solicitors  would reopen the case  and try to settle  on 
the best possible terms if Mrs Z changed  her mind. 
Mrs Z contacted AXA to discuss her complaint further. AXA subsequently apologised as it 
failed to recognise this was a continuation  of her initial complaint. AXA also apologised for its 
delay and offered  Mrs Z further compensation of £75. Mrs Z said she didnt accept  AXAs 
offers. And she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator said that we couldnt  consider Mrs Zs complaint about AXAs actions up to 
16 November 2017 as she hadnt referred  it to us in time. 
The investigator said that Mrs Z hadnt  initially  wanted to make a claim but did so later. She 
said the third party  claimed against Mrs Z so there was always a claim against her. She said 
AXA explained to Mrs Z that from the available evidence it would be fair to settle the claim 
on a 50/50 basis.  She said that given AXAs experience of claims, the witness statement,  
and that Mrs Z wouldnt go to court, this decision was fair and reasonable.
The investigator said AXA apologised to Mrs Z for referring to the other  party as Mr when 
her title is Miss and for its delay. The investigator  said AXA promised to keep  Mrs Z 
updated about her claim, but it hadnt  done this. She said Mrs Z had to chase AXA to find out 
what was happening,  and this was stressful for her. But she said AXAs  offer of £225 
compensation was fair and reasonable for its poor service. The investigator said she 
wouldnt ask AXA to remove Mrs Zs claim  from her policy as she's received the benefits of 
the repairs from having made a claim.   
Mrs Z disagreed with the investigator and so her complaint's been  passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN03331242my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs Z called AXA about  an accident,  it lodged a claim against her policy. Its in dispute 
whether or not Mrs Z wanted  to claim with AXA. But because the other  driver made a claim 
against Mrs Z and Mrs Z then claimed  on her policy for repairs to her car there  doesnt  seem 
to be any reason to look any further  at this point.
Mrs Z complained about the handling of this claim and said AXA hadnt  communicated  with 
her properly. AXA replied  to Mrs Zs complaint on 16 November  2017.  And the letter says 
she can refer her complaint to this service if shes not happy  but she must do so within six 
months of the date on the letter and it wont agree to a time extension unless the delay was 
a result of exceptional circumstances.  Mrs Z brought her complaint to us on 5 December 
2018  more than a year after AXA told her she had six months to do this. 
Our service has to follow the dispute resolution rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
These set out time limits which apply  to our power  to consider complaints. They state  that a 
consumer must refer their complaint to us within six months of the final response  from the 
business. If not, we may not be able to consider it unless exceptional circumstances 
prevented it being  referred in time. I havent  seen anything  that makes  me think there were 
exceptional circumstances  which prevented  Mrs Z bringing her complaint to us in time. So I 
cant consider Mrs Zs complaint about  AXAs service before 16 November 2017.
AXA settled  Mrs Zs claim for the damage to her car. But she wasn't happy that it didn't 
update her about the liability aspect of her claim.  She was also unhappy that it eventually  
settled the claim on a 50/50  split liability basis.  
AXA agreed that its service wasnt as good as it should have been.  So, it offered Mrs Z a 
total of £225 compensation for the impact of that. But it felt it had come  to the right decision 
about liability. In bringing this complaint Mrs Z has made  a great number  of points. I've 
considered everything  shes  said carefully  but in this decision I will focus on what  I see as 
being the key outstanding points following our investigators assessment of her complaint. 
Mrs Z is adamant she wasn't at fault for the accident. So, I can understand her frustration 
that AXAs made a decision  that essentially means that she was partly  to blame. And, as a 
result, she now has a fault claim affecting  her insurance history. 
Its important that I make  it clear  that its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, 
as ultimately thats a matter for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mrs Zs policy  allows 
AXA to settle claims  as it sees fit. That means  it doesnt require Mrs Zs consent  to decide 
how to settle a claim and it may make a decision  that Mrs Z doesnt agree with. But Ill look 
to see that its done so reasonably. 
Both Mrs Z and the other driver gave different versions of events,  but there was an 
independent witness  who said Mrs Z was to blame. AXA decided to try to settle  the claim on 
the best terms available to it and negotiated  a 50/50 split liability with the other drivers 
insurer. Although Mrs Z remains unhappy with that decision, she said she wasnt  prepared  to 
go to court  to allow the court to decide liability.  
Ref: DRN03331243From what  Ive seen, AXA did what it could to defend Mrs Z but had to finalise the claim 
when she wouldn't go to court. This meant AXA had to make an assessment of what it thinks  
would be the likely  outcome if the claim had gone to court. I think  that AXA considered the 
available evidence and Mrs Zs decision not to go to court and decided that the best 
outcome for her would be to settle the claim on a 50/50 split of liability. I think  AXAs  decision 
to settle the claim  this way was both fair and reasonable, and I think that it has treated  Mrs Z 
fairly concerning the claim.
AXA has previously acknowledged that some of its service wasn't good enough and I agree. 
AXAs poor communications  and delay caused  Mrs Z avoidable stress. AXA had initially  
delayed repairing Mrs Zs car but then quickly proceeded to instruct its solicitors to take the 
liability dispute to court and so I dont think it was responsible for all the delays. 
AXA offered  Mrs Z a total of £225 in compensation and I think that was reasonable for its 
poor service. I recommend that Mrs Z accept  this compensation  from AXA. 
While I can understand Mrs Zs frustration, I don't think AXAs decision to settle the claim on 
a 50/50 basis  was unfair. So, Im not going  to direct AXA to remove the fault claim from 
Mrs Z's policy or take any further  action.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0333124