K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that a conditional sale agreement under which  a car was supplied to her 
was mis-sold to her by Pendragon  Finance and Insurance Services Limited  and about  the 
settlement figure that shes been  quoted. 
background 
A used  car was supplied to Ms G under  a conditional sale agreement with a credit provider 
that she signed in August 2016. She wanted to repay the agreement early  so she asked  for 
a settlement figure  in January 2017. The settlement figure was higher than shed  expected 
so she complained that the agreement had been  mis-sold to her. She said that Pendragon 
had assured her that the amount that she would have to pay in interest if she settled the 
agreement early would be low and that there would be no penalties. She wasnt  satisfied 
with Pendragons response so complained  to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He felt that Ms G had 
been clear in her intention  to keep any repayments  to a minimum and that, had she been  
given clearer information around the structure  of the interest and the likely settlement figure, 
she would've chosen a different method of financing the car. So he recommended  that a fair 
outcome would be for Ms G to only be liable for the amount borrowed (£6,519.99), minus 
any instalments already  paid (£1,625.25),  plus the interest accrued at the point of the 
settlement (£718.82).
Pendragon disagreed and has asked for this complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. 
It says, in summary, that its final response  letter has been  mis-understood and that theres 
more than enough evidence to suggest that Ms G wasnt mis-informed  as to how interest 
would apply to the loan.
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs 
G and to the credit provider on 3 October 2018. In my provisional decision I said that I wasnt  
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the agreement was mis-sold to Ms G. 
And I said that I didnt  think  that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require  the credit  
provider to accept  a lower  settlement figure from Ms G than would now be due under an 
early settlement - or to take any other action in response to her complaint. 
So, subject to any further representations by Ms G or the credit  provider, my provisional  
decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint.
The credit provider has said that the complaint should be against Pendragon  and Pendragon  
has said that its happy for that to happen. 
My provisional decision was sent to Ms G in October  2018.  She was contacted  by the 
investigator in January  2019 and she said that she hadnt received my provisional  decision 
because shed moved and hadn't updated her address with this service.  My provisional  
decision was then e-mailed to Ms G using the correct e-mail  address  but she hasnt 
responded to it.
Ref: DRN00814102my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms G signed  the conditional sale agreement in August 2016. It clearly  set out the amount of 
credit, the interest rate (13.6% APR), and that Ms G was to make 60 monthly  repayments  of 
£147.75. She also signed a statement of demands  and needs, a duty of care document, an 
adequate explanations document and a finance  proposal form. 
The adequate explanations document says:
I have received  an explanation of  information about the cost of the credit  
including indication of costs of full/partial early repayment.
Ms G says in her complaint form that she was told that if she paid the finance off early, it 
would only be the amount  borrowed  plus interest up until that date and there  were  no 
charges for paying the agreement off early. And that is confirmed in her e-mail  exchanges  
with Pendragon. She asked whether the £65 admin  fee for amending the agreement was a 
fee for early repayment  or whether there  were  any other  fees for doing  that. And she asked 
Pendragon to confirm that if she did pay the finance off early, it would only be the amount 
borrowed plus interest up until that date and not all of the interest  for the full term. 
Pendragon confirmed that there was no admin fee for paying the car off early  only for 
amendments to the agreement.
Ms G asked for a settlement figure in January 2017   but the figure  quoted was higher than 
shed expected. So she complained to Pendragon and it said in its final response letter that:
 interest is in fact only ever applied to the balance of capital outstanding at the 
time the calculation is made; this can be daily or monthly dependent on the lender 
and the terms of their loan. I can assure  you however that you do not pay all of the 
interest up front and a rebate  of interest is applied  for the remainder of the term 
upon partial/early settlement should  you wish to do so.
Its clear that Ms G was concerned about the amount that shed be charged if she settled the 
agreement early. And she says that she had alternative methods for paying for the car  
including an interest free credit card for the balance  that she hadnt  already saved and a low 
interest loan. But she nonetheless agreed that the car would be supplied  to her under a 
conditional sale agreement and she accepted  an interest rate of 13.6% APR. So Im satisfied 
that she knew that this was interest-bearing finance.
She did ask Pendragon a number of questions about the costs of early  settlement. But I 
consider that it answered those questions correctly.  It said that no fees would be charged if 
she settled early and that interest would only be charged up until the date of settlement. And 
I consider that her settlement  figure  has been  calculated on that basis.  
Pendragon couldve  explained to Ms G in more detail the way that interest  is applied  under 
such an agreement  or it couldve suggested that she contact the credit provider for an 
explanation. But Im not persuaded that there was any requirement for it to do so, or that 
theres enough evidence to show that the early settlement figure  has been calculated  
incorrectly. 
Ref: DRN00814103Nor am I persuaded  that theres enough  evidence to show that the agreement  was mis-sold 
to Ms G, such  that she was induced  to take the finance on false  or misleading pretences.  
I understand that Ms G has kept the car and has continued to use it. In her complaint form 
she asked that she be allowed  to pay off the amount that she borrowed   and not the 
interest. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for that to happen,  as that would  be 
interest-free finance,  which was never  part of the agreement that she made.
Neither do I it think that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Pendragon to arrange  
for the credit provider  to accept a lower  settlement figure from Ms G than would  now be due 
under an early settlement - or to take any other  action in response to her complaint.  If Ms G 
now wants to return the car, I suggest that she contacts the credit provider and asks it to 
explain the options that are available to her for ending the agreement.  
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0081410