K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains that TSB Bank plc debited  his account with a series of card payments 
totalling over £3,000  which he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
Mr T is also unhappy with the customer service  he received from TSB when disputing  the 
payments, and that they closed his account without notice.
Background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September 2019  setting out the 
background of the complaint, and the findings I planned to reach as follows:
In November 2017 Mr T says he became aware  of a number of transactions that debited his 
account to two different online betting  companies   Mr T says he doesnt  have  an account 
with these companies. Hes also said he still has the card, and thinks its possible someone  
close to him accessed  that card to make  the transactions.  And theyd have only had to do so 
once in order to get his details and then make the number of transactions that happened  on 
his account. The transactions  were debited from Mr Ts account from 27 September  2017, 
until 22 November 2017.
Mr T complained to TSB and asked them to refund the transactions.  TSB ultimately  refused, 
and in their letter dated 18 December 2017 they said both betting companies  had told them
Mr T holds  an account with them. TSB added that Mr T had been making faster  payments 
between the disputed transactions, so they thought it was plausible  that Mr T could have  
seen the disputed payments coming out.
Mr T says he had a lot of phone calls with TSB  and he says they told him theyd refund the 
transactions. He says he submitted a dispute  online,  got a reference number, and then when 
he called  they didnt have a record of it. Hes also said they cut him off, and refused to get a 
manager when  he asked them to. TSB said they didnt deliberately  cut him off, and gave him 
the correct information at all times.
After responding  to the dispute,  TSB chose to close down  Mr Ts current  account  without 
notice.
Unhappy with this response,  Mr T asked us to look into things. Our adjudicator  considered
Mr Ts complaint, and ultimately decided she couldnt recommend TSB refund the disputed  
transactions. She said that a lot of the personal  and contact information Mr T had given to
TSB and to us matched  up what the betting companies held  and thought it unlikely a 
fraudster would do this. So ultimately she felt it was likely Mr T had authorised  the 
transactions himself.
In respect of the customer service, our adjudicator felt TSB gave enough evidence  to prove 
their version of events,  so she didnt award Mr T any compensation for this. And in respect of 
closing Mr Ts account, she said that TSB had given him two months notice  this was 
happening, which is as set out in the terms and conditions  so thought it was reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr T didnt  agree with anything our adjudicator had said.  He said he didnt do the 
transactions  and he couldnt believe that TSB no longer had the phone calls hed had with 
them. Because of this, the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN07021352Provisional Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons on the disputed 
transactions and the customer service Mr T experienced.  But I dont think we properly 
explained the closure of Mr Ts account.
Disputed transactions
Having carefully considered everything  that both sides have  said and provided, I dont think  
its unreasonable for TSB to conclude that Mr T authorised  the transactions.  This is because:
Mr T has given  different answers  as to how he first became aware of the disputed 
transactions  Id expect a more consistent explanation if hed discovered it as he 
first told us.
The betting companies hold lots of the same  personal details Mr T has given to TSB
and our service  and I think  its unlikely  a fraudster would do this for fear of potential
discovery.
The first disputed transaction was in September 2017 and Mr T was making genuine 
transactions amongst those he disputed. Over the next month his balance  reduced to 
zero four times,  and I think its likely he would have seen he had less money  
available.
A large  sum from a company was paid in to Mr Ts account at the end of October  
2017. Over the next two days  some  payments were made  out of the account that 
Mr T has told us hes not disputing, and other payments were disputed  payments to 
betting companies  which suggests  the person making the transactions  knew  the 
money was coming in.
I want Mr T to know Ive looked at everything hes told us very carefully,  and Ive listened to 
the call he had with us after the adjudicator wrote with his view of the complaint.
But taking everything  into account, I find, on balance, that Mr T authorised the disputed 
transactions. It follows that TSB is entitled to hold him liable  for them.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think its fair and reasonable for TSB to refuse a refund 
because, overall,  I think its more  likely  than not that Mr T made or authorised the 
transactions that he disputes.
Ive noted Mr Ts comments about TSB telling him theyd refund him the transactions.  I dont 
have the calls, so cant  say for sure what happened. But even if TSB did at one point tell him 
that, often itll come  with an explanation that once the bank has investigated the issue the 
transactions could  be re-debited  from the account.  I can see Mr T was aware of this, from 
other disputes hes raised. So I think its likely  Mr T was aware theyd potentially take the 
money back  and I dont  make any award against TSB for this.
Ref: DRN07021353Customer service
Mr T has raised  a number of concerns about  the customer service he experienced when 
trying to raise a dispute.
TSB have  told us they dont have the actual calls. While I understand Mr T doesnt accept 
this, we take information from both parties  in good faith  and in the absence of evidence, 
we decide whether we think something is more  likely  than not to have happened.
Its clear Mr T was frustrated  but Im more persuaded  by TSBs evidence than Mr Ts. The 
conference call was arranged by the member of staff at TSB, so I see no reason why they 
would have deliberately cut Mr T off. And their call notes  show  Mr T was told what  was 
happening when  he called. And while I can imagine  it was frustrating  the dispute hadnt  been 
logged at the time he called, it was ultimately logged and resolved  in a timely  fashion.
I dont make any award against  TSB for this aspect of Mr Ts complaint.
Account closure
Ive also thought about Mr Ts complaint  about  his account being closed. Our adjudicator  
said Mr T had been given two months notice as set out in the banks  terms and conditions.
But Mr Ts account was closed without notice, so that wasnt  correct.
Banks are allowed to close accounts with customers, the same as customers  are allowed to 
close accounts with banks. But when a bank  closes  an account this needs  to be done in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account  whether its closed with two months notice  or 
immediately.
Im satisfied the bank  has followed their terms and conditions  here,  as these  say TSB can 
give two months notice, or close it immediately if it meets one of the set criteria. These 
criteria include, among other things, acting fraudulently. And, as Ive already concluded 
above, its reasonable for TSB to hold Mr T liable  for the transactions  hes disputed  so I 
think their decision to close his account  immediately was reasonable.
Given all of this I wasnt planning  to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
TSB confirmed theyd received my provisional decision, but didnt reply or add any 
comments.
Our investigator tried to reach  Mr T, but he wasnt able to  and no reply was received from 
Mr T by the deadline.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded, I see no reason to change  my provisional  decision. I find its 
more likely than not that Mr T made or authorised  the transactions that he disputes. Im 
satisfied TSB didnt give Mr T poor customer service, and were  allowed to close  down his 
account in the manner  they did.
Ref: DRN07021354My decision
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0702135