K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T have  complained that Vitality Health Limited wasnt clear when they notified it 
of a claim they were  making under the travel  part of their private health insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs T were  on holiday at their holiday home  in Europe, when very sadly  Mrs Ts 
sister became ill and subsequently died.
Initially, Mrs T flew back to the UK on 30 July 2018 and then back to her holiday destination 
on 3 August. She then returned again to the UK, on 18 August and then returned back  to the 
holiday destination again on 22 August. 
Mr T telephoned Vitality twice asking to make a claim  but this was after Mrs T travelled. 
Vitality agreed it could have been  clearer with Mr T about what claims would be covered and 
how. However, it didnt think it had done anything  wrong in applying  the policy terms to Mrs 
Ts claim (for both returns back  to the UK), by paying for only one claim, as the policy 
provides.
Mr T remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator didnt think Vitality  
needed to do anything more. Mr T disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
This services remit is to assess whether a business did anything wrong, as in Vitality  here. 
And if it did, did that cause any disadvantage to its customer, namely Mr and Mrs T. If so, 
then did Vitality then do enough to put things right.
First, Mrs T had already travelled back and forth to the UK before Mr T called Vitality to sort 
out making a claim for both trips back to the UK. Consequently regardless of what Vitality 
may or may not have  said in either  phone  call, Mr and Mrs T had already incurred the costs 
of these trips. That wasnt Vitalitys fault and consequently there  wasnt anything Vitality  
could have done to change that.
Secondly, the policy is clear that it only provides cover for one such trip back to the UK due 
to the illness  of a family member. And that it applies a £50 excess.  
Theres no dispute that Vitality could have been  clearer on the phone  with Mr T about  what 
would and wouldnt be covered. However, it actually makes little difference, since that lack of 
clarity didnt  disadvantage Mr T in any way, or indeed induce him to incur  further costs, since 
those costs had already  been incurred before Mr T spoke to Vitality.  Vitality has apologised  
for its lack of clarity  and I consider that to be reasonable and appropriate.
Vitality simply  told Mr T to put everything  on the claim form and it would be assessed then. 
Thats also what the policy terms say Mr T should do. So whilst it might  been more helpful  
Ref: DRN08789702for Mr T to have  been told by Vitality, only on trip would eventually be covered, I dont 
consider its caused  Mr T any loss.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0878970