K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Barclays  Bank UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in February 2008.
Mr A says it doesnt look like he was given a choice on the credit  agreement and the way the 
PPI policy  was presented  was misleading.  He thinks PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Barclays says that the PPI policy was added online.  Mr A says that it was added during a 
phone call with a representative from Barclays. I cant be sure what happened  at the time of 
sale, but when  I consider  what  I have in front of me, I think  its more likely than not Mr A took 
out the credit card and PPI online.  So I will proceed that this was the case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint because:
 I think Barclays made Mr A aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to 
take it. I say this because  Barclays  has provided  a copy of the credit agreement  that it 
sent out to Mr A after his online application. Mr A has signed separately on this 
agreement for PPI to indicate that he wanted  to take the policy  out. Mr A says the form 
is presented in a way that it looks like there  is no choice  but to have it. But I think he 
could have  left the PPI section blank if he didnt want the insurance.
 Barclays didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr A so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable 
for him. It did have  to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
 It is possible the information Barclays gave  Mr A about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  Mr A told us that he was entitled to some  sick pay (up to 3 months)  
and some  savings. I can see the policy would have  paid more than his minimum credit 
card repayments for up to 12 months  if he couldnt work, providing a useful extra benefit 
at a difficult  time. And he doesnt  appear  to have had significant  other  means to make  
his credit  card repayments if he couldnt  work.  He was not affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced  and apparently 
affordable.
So I think it unlikely Mr A would have made  a different decision if better  information  had been 
provided. On balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.  This means Barclays 
dont have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A. But Barclays  has paid back  some  of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr A because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr A, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN07962082To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0796208