K822xcomplaint 
L Ltd (L) complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund a payment  of £14,851.44  that an 
employee made from Ls business account to a fraudster. It is also unhappy with the 
customer service  it received. 
background 
In August  2018  L fell victim to a scam.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred  as follows.
On 6 August  2018 at around  06:55, L received an invoice from what it believed  was a 
genuine supplier  who was undertaking planned  works. It appears  that after the email was 
sent by the genuine  supplier this was intercepted  and the account  details on the attached  
invoice were changed. From the information provided to us, it appears only one email  and 
invoice was received by L on 6 August 2018.  
That same day an employee of L sent a payment of £14,851.44 to the fraudsters via its 
online bank  account,  believing  it to be to the genuine account  for the supplier. This payment 
was sent at 11:39. 
A few days  later, on 10 August  2018, L received an email from the genuine supplier to ask 
when it could expect  to receive  payment.  At this point, L contacted  Santander to find out 
where the money had gone.  When discussing the payment with Santander, L said the 
account details  matched  but that the account  name/  reference didnt. L informed Santander 
of the correct name. In this call, Santander told L that as the payee name didnt match,  the 
money would  usually be either sent back or put into a holding account. However, this was 
not the case. During this call, there  was no mention of the potential  of a scam from L or 
Santanders agent. 
There was a further call between L and Santander  on 13 August 2018. In this call L again 
enquired where  the payment was and referred to the previous call on 10 August  2018 where 
it was told that as the incorrect name  was entered the money would be moved  to a holding 
account. L referred  to the previous agent providing a document for L to give to its supplier  so 
that it could take this into branch to release  the money with its bank.  The supplier got in 
touch with L to advise this document was password protected  and so L requested the 
password. Again, there  was no mention  the payment might have been made as a result of a 
scam at this point.
From the information provided, it appears  that later on that day, L discovered it had sent the 
payment to an account that didnt belong  to the supplier.  This was discovered after the 
supplier visited a branch  for its bank with the document  referred to above and noted that the 
beneficiary details  on the document provided by Santander were  different. 
L contacted Santander on 14 August 2018 to explain it had fallen victim to a scam. 
Santander contacted the receiving bank the same day the scam was reported. 
Unfortunately, the receiving bank was only able to recover  £210.80. This was credited to Ls 
account on 28 September 2018.  
L complained to Santander. It said Santander  should refund the money it had lost, and it 
asked Santander  why the payment wasnt flagged when the payee  name  did not match  the 
account holders  name. It was also unhappy  that Santander had told Ls employee the funds 
Ref: DRN08382992were being  held in a holding account due to the account names not matching. L has also 
complained that after making  requests to Santander for call transcripts  from 10 and 13 
August 2018,  these  were not received. It had requested this information due to attending  
court for the outstanding money  owed  to the genuine supplier.
Santanders response was that as L willingly  made  the payment it could not be held liable for 
the loss to the account. It did however, recognise  the level of service provided was not as it 
should have been. It apologised for this and credited Ls account with £100. Unhappy  with 
this, L referred its complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and didnt think  the payment was so 
unusual or out of character for L and so he didnt think  that Santander ought reasonably to 
have intervened before processing it. He said that at the time the payment was made there  
was no regulatory  requirement for Santander  to check the account name provided matched 
the recipient account name.   
He did however, think Santanders  advisor should  have picked up on the potential that the 
payment was the result of a scam  in the call of 10 August 2018, but didnt think this would 
have made  a difference to the amount recovered due to when the money  was withdrawn 
from the receiving account.  
Our investigator didnt  think the compensation Santander had paid for the service received 
was fair and reasonable and recommended a further £150 (£250 in total)  be paid to L given 
L had been provided with incorrect  information on multiple occasions and because  its 
request for call transcripts were ignored.   
L didnt accept  our investigators  findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review  the 
complaint. In summary:
L asked  our investigator  if hed considered  the relevant  court  judgement  and 
what  the judge  had said.  L has referred  to Santander having a duty of care to 
provide its customers with guidance on making online payments  in particular it was 
unhappy that Santander had allowed L to make a large payment without making a 
tester payment first. 
Santander  employed  delay  tactics  and acted  badly  towards  it as a customer  
causing  it to be in a position  where  it was not able to supply  evidence  in court.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to L, and I can understand entirely why Mr S, on behalf 
of L feels so strongly  that Ls money should  be returned to it. But having thought very 
carefully about Santanders actions,  I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the 
payment to leave Ls account. I will now explain  why. 
Ref: DRN08382993In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
-the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
-regulated firms  like Santander are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6); and
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to:
-look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
-in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to 
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
It is accepted that L authorised the transfer of £14,851.44.  Because  of this, Santander had 
an obligation  to follow Ls instruction. But there  are some  situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances  surrounding  the transfer - as Ive 
explained. I consider  that as a matter  of good  practice Santander shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual  and out of character  transactions.
Ive first thought about whether the payment L made was out of character and unusual.  
Having reviewed Ls statements  in the month leading up to the scam, I dont think  the 
payment was so unusual  or suspicious in comparison to Ls normal account activity  that it 
ought to have alerted Santander  that L may have been at risk of financial harm.  I say this 
because in the month prior to the scam payment I can see L also made  faster payments for 
£9,000 and £12,000, so I dont think I can fairly say that a payment of £14,851.44  was 
sufficiently unusual for me to fairly and reasonably say that Santander ought to have been 
concerned that Ls account was at risk of fraud.
L has asked why the payment wasnt flagged when the payee name  did not match  the 
account holders  name. While I acknowledge Ls views on this point,  at the time this payment 
was made,  the relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSR 2017) 
set out that payments are sent according to unique identifiers (typically the account number 
and sort code).
Ref: DRN08382994In particular, section  90 of the PSR 2017  states:
(1) Where  a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the 
payment order is deemed to have been  correctly  executed by each payment service 
provider involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee  specified  
by the unique identifier
The impact  of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went  to the account 
number and sort code  instructed by the payer. So I cant fairly say that Santander didnt 
follow the instructions  when it processed  the payment that L authorised to the account 
number and sort code  provided. 
Ive gone on to think about  whether Santander did what it shouldve  done once L reported to 
it that itd been  the victim  of a scam.  In order for me to be able to fairly ask Santander to 
refund the money to L, Id need to be satisfied Santander should  have acted  sooner  in trying 
to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it 
made any difference.
In this case, our investigator thought there  was the potential for Santander to have picked up 
on the potential  risk of a scam in the call on 10 August 2018. But I dont  think  this is material 
to the outcome of this case in any event  because,  the receiving  bank has provided 
information that shows the unrecovered funds were withdrawn on 9 August 2018 - prior to 
Ls first contact with Santander. So unfortunately, even  had the scam been  raised  sooner 
than it was, the unrecovered funds  had already left the receiving account. As Ive explained, 
it was possible to recover £210.80 and this was credited to Ls account on 28 September 
2018.  
Ive also considered the information L was given about the payment being in a holding  
account within the call of 10 August 2018. I agree the level of service provided by Santander 
could have been better here, and that receiving this mis-information  from Santander would 
have provided  false  reassurance to L. While its not clear why the employee of L was told 
this, given what Ive said above in relation to the unrecovered funds being withdrawn from 
the receiving account on 9 August  2018, Im satisfied this mis-information hasnt made a 
difference to the recovery of the money. 
L has said that it thinks  Santander should provide guidance for its customers regarding  
internet payments, such as making  a small tester payment and following this up by a phone  
call before going on to make a transfer to a new payee. At the time L made  the payment, 
and in the particular circumstances of this payment, there was no obligation for Santander to 
tell its customers to make a tester payment and then to follow  up whether the funds  have 
been received  by the recipient by way of a phone call. 
I am sorry  L has lost out, and I appreciate this is a lot of money for it to have lost. Id also like 
to assure Mr S that I can appreciate this experience has caused him frustration and upset. 
But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Santander should refund L with the 
remaining money it lost as part of the scam.  
However, I consider  Santander could have provided  L with a better  level of service.  When 
considering fair compensation, I need to keep in mind the inconvenience and impact this 
matter has had on L itself  rather than Mr S as a director of it. Taking everything into 
account, I agree a further £150  compensation should be paid to L to reflect the 
Ref: DRN08382995inconvenience caused by the incorrect information  Santander provided and for not providing  
L with the call transcripts despite several requests  especially given L asked for this 
information due to attending  court for the outstanding amount due to the genuine supplier.  
putting things right 
Santander UK Plc should pay L a further  £150  compensation (if it has not already done so) 
in recognition of the inconvenience  L experienced. 
my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and direct Santander UK Plc to put 
things right by doing what  Ive set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 December  2020.
Staci Rowland  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0838299