K820x#14complaint 
Mr and Mrs Q have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund the money they 
lost from their personal account after falling victim to a scam.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. In April 2018 Mr and Mrs Q were in touch with their solicitor  about a 
house purchase, which they were trying  for a quick exchange on.  
Mr and Mrs Q say at the end of April they were discussing the possibility of exchanging on 
the property within the next week. On exchange  Mr and Mrs Q were  due to pay a further 
£55,000. 
Mr and Mrs Q say they received emails  from their solicitor about  exchanging on the property 
on 4 May 2018.  They  received an email on 3 May 2018 asking for the remaining amount due 
to be paid to a different account to one theyd previously sent funds  to. Mr Q says when he 
questioned this, he was told this was because the account was their client  account  so that it 
could keep a track  of what reservation  fees were and what were exchange fees. 
Mr and Mrs Q sent an initial tester payment of £5,000 from their joint Barclays  current  
account on 3 May 2018. They received confirmation  by email from who they believed  to be 
the solicitor that this payment had been  received. Following this, later that evening, Mr and 
Mrs Q sent the remaining  £50,000 from their business  account with Bank B. 
Mr and Mrs Q have raised a separate complaint about the money  transferred from their 
account held with Bank B. So, in this decision, Im only looking at the initial transfer of £5,000 
made from Mr and Mrs Qs joint Barclays current account.
On the morning of 4 May 2018 Mr and Mrs Q say they received confirmation  the remaining  
funds had been received  and were told documents would be sent to them  to complete and 
return. When Mr and Mrs Q didnt receive the documentation they were expecting, Mr Q 
contacted the solicitor  the same day. It became apparent to Mr and Mrs Q that theyd made 
the payment to a scammer  who had intercepted their solicitors email  and had sent them an 
email asking for the money to be sent to a different  account. Mr Q contacted Barclays  on 
4 May 2018  to explain what  had happened. Barclays contacted  the receiving bank the same 
day and received a response on 14 May 2018  to say no funds remained. 
Mr and Mrs Q complained  to Barclays that it should  refund the money theyve lost and, 
questioned Barclays  about the receiving banks response in relation to there being no 
remaining funds. Theyve said Bank  B had been able to recover  some funds from the 
receiving bank and so cant understand how no funds remained from the money sent from 
their Barclays account. Barclays response was that it would not be refunding the money. 
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs Q referred their complaint  to our service. 
One of our investigators  who looked  into the complaint didnt think  the payment was unusual  
or out of character  for Mr and Mrs Qs account  and so she didnt think  that Barclays ought 
reasonably to have  intervened before processing it. She also thought Barclays had 
attempted to recover the funds once it had been put on notice and that itd relayed the 
correct information  to Mr and Mrs Q about  no funds remaining.  
Ref: DRN05449662Mr and Mrs Q remained  unhappy and so, it has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mr and Mrs Q, and I can understand entirely why 
they feel so strongly  that their money should  be returned to them. But having thought  very 
carefully about Barclays actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably  in allowing the 
payment to leave their account. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
-the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
-regulated firms  like Barclays are also required  to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6); and
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to:
-identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances );
-look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of)
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to 
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
Ref: DRN05449663It is accepted that Mr and Mrs Q authorised the payment of £5,000. Because of this, 
Barclays had an obligation  to follow their instruction. But there  are some situations in which  it 
should reasonably have  had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as 
Ive explained.  I consider  that as a matter of good  practice Barclays  shouldve been  on the 
lookout for unusual  and out of character  transactions.
Ive first thought about whether the payment Mr and Mrs Q made was out of character and 
unusual. Having reviewed  the joint current account statements from October 2017 up to the 
scam payment, I dont  think the payment was so unusual  or suspicious in comparison to 
Mr and Mrs Qs normal account activity that it ought  to have alerted Barclays that they may 
have been at risk of financial  harm. I say this because,  I can see between  February 2018 up 
to the scam payment  in May 2018 that there were numerous other payments ranging from 
£5,000 to £30,000 debited  from the account. The payment to the fraudster also didnt clear  
the account or leave it in a negative  position.  So, I cant  say that the payment of £5,000  was 
sufficiently unusual for me to fairly and reasonably say that Barclays ought  to have been 
concerned that Mr and Mrs Qs account  was at risk of fraud.  
Mr and Mrs Q are unhappy the account name  was not checked when transferring the 
money. They feel had the account  name  been  checked this would have created an 
immediate alert and the bank  could have stopped the payment. While I acknowledge Mr and 
Mrs Qs personal  views on this point, at the time this payment was made, the relevant 
regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSR 2017) set out that payments 
are sent according  to unique identifiers (typically the account number and sort code).
In particular, section  90 of the PSR 2017  states:
(1) Where  a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the 
payment order is deemed to have been  correctly  executed by each payment service 
provider involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee  specified  
by the unique identifier
The impact  of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went  to the account 
number and sort code  instructed by the payer. So I cant fairly say that Barclays didnt  follow 
the instructions  when  it processed the payment that Mr and Mrs Q authorised  to the account  
number and sort code  provided. 
Ive gone on to think about  whether Barclays did what it shouldve done  once  Mr and Mrs Q 
reported to it that theyd  been the victim of a scam. In order for me to be able to fairly  ask 
Barclays to refund the money to Mr and Mrs Q, Id need  to be satisfied Barclays  should have 
acted sooner in trying  to recover the money. And if I dont  think  it acted soon enough, I need 
to decide whether it made any difference.
Ive seen information from the receiving  bank that shows £5,000 was debited  from the 
receiving account  within  an hour of it being  credited on 3 May 2018, which  was prior to 
Mr and Mrs Qs contact with Barclays on 4 May 2018. So unfortunately, Mr and Mrs Qs 
money had already left the receiving  account before the scam was reported.  
I recognise Mr and Mrs Q have referred to Bank B being able to recover  funds from the 
receiving bank in relation  to the further payment they made from their account with Bank  B to 
the scammer. But based on the above, Im satisfied that by the time Mr and Mrs Q reported 
the scam  no funds remained  in relation  to the £5,000 payment made  from their Barclays 
account. 
Ref: DRN05449664I am sorry  Mr and Mrs Q have lost out, and I appreciate this is a lot of money for them to 
have lost. I also understand  this whole experience has been very frustrating  and upsetting 
for them. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Barclays  should  refund  them  
with the money  they lost as part of the scam. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Qs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 January 2021.
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0544966