K821x#15complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the amount AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has paid to settle his motor 
insurance claim. He also complains he was without the use of a hire car for a number
of days.
Any reference to AXA includes its agents.
background
In February 2019,  Mr N was involved in a car accident. The car was written off and 
considered a total loss. To settle the claim,  AXA said it considered the cars  pre-accident 
market value to be around  £14,120. AXA reduced this figure by 20% because the car had 
previously been  considered  an insurance  loss and said they would pay him £11,296  (subject 
to £200 policy excess) to settle the claim.
Mr N felt the offer was too low because he had purchased the car two months prior to the 
accident for around £13,500. He also said he was not aware the car was previously 
considered a total loss. He did not believe  it was fair for AXA to reduce its offer because of 
this. He asked  for the settlement figure  to be revised. After further review, AXA increased the
offer to £11,320  (subject to the policy excess)  this was their final offer. Mr N accepted it
however he remains  unhappy with the amount.
While the claim  was being settled, AXA referred  Mr N to a not at fault credit  hire company
who provided him with a hire car. Once Mr N accepted the settlement offer in April 2019, he
was told he would need to return the car. Mr N complained as he believed  he should  be 
allowed to keep it until he had actually received the money to settle the claim.  The hire car
was returned and Mr N said he had to hire another  one.
Mr N complained to AXA and they responded saying that the settlement figure was fair and
he had use of the hire car for the maximum time allowed under the policy.  However, AXA
accepted Mr N had experienced delays on the phone when trying to contact them and calls
werent returned as promised, so they offered him £100 compensation.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr N brought the complaint to our service.  Our investigator
thought the settlement amount offered by AXA was fair and Mr N had use of a hire car in line
with the terms of the policy.
However the investigator identified AXA had paid £11,296 rather  than £11,320  as per their
final offer and he requested for the shortfall  of £24 to be paid to Mr N which  they agreed to
do.
Mr N remains  unhappy for the following reasons:
-the settlement  figure is too low;
-AXA has not considered his evidence  of adverts  for cars that were  similar  to his own;
-AXA should have  allowed him to keep  the hire car until he received  the offer amount;
-AXA should compensate him for the alternative  arrangements he had to make when
he was without a hire car.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2019 and said:
Ref: DRN00795402Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to reach the 
same outcome as the investigator  but for different reasons. Ill explain why. 
valuation of the car
Where a car has been damaged, AXAs  terms say they can choose  to replace, repair or pay
an amount equal  to the loss or damage. The policy says if they choose to pay, we will not
pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the loss less any excesses.
The policy terms define market value as the cost of replacing your car with another of the
same make and model and of similar age, mileage and condition at the time of the accident
or loss. It also says market value may be affected  if the car has been previously declared a
total loss. This means AXA will pay the value of the car immediately before the accident.
AXA has offered  £11,320  to settle the claim.  They said they determined the pre-accident
value of the car to be £14,151. However  because the car had previously been considered  a
total loss in June 2018, they reduced  this figure by 20%. This brought the final valuation to
£11,320. Mr N felt this was not enough.
Firstly, I must explain, my role is not to provide an exact value of Mr Ns car. Instead I must
consider if the amount offered by AXA is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. When
looking at these types of complaints, I check motor trade guides and consider whether the
insurer has made a reasonable offer in line with them.  I may also consider other information
such as retail and private adverts. However I tend to place most  weight  on the guides as
theyre based on nationwide  research  of likely selling  prices, so theyre more reliable than
individual adverts. This is because adverts  can be misleading as vehicles often dont sell for
the advertised price.
AXA said it checked three trade guides  which gave valuations of £13,750,  £12,393 and
£11,865. They also said they considered online  adverts.  I have considered the guides and I
find AXAs  valuation of £13,750 to be at the higher end of the spectrum.  So its in line with 
the guides. They have added the value of the optional extras (£401),  bringing  the total to 
£14,151. Based on this, I am satisfied AXAs initial valuation was reasonable.
AXA reduced this market value figure by 20% because  the car had previously been  a total
loss. They  have provided evidence of the HPI check which confirms the same.
Sometimes I feel it isnt fair for an insurer to reduce the valuation  because of a previous total
loss. This might  be the case  in instances  where a consumer has unknowingly purchased  a
previously written off car but had taken  reasonable care to check  its history. But in this case
it seems Mr N didnt  do so, for example by doing  a HPI check. I dont believe Mr N took
reasonable care to find out about the cars history so it wouldnt be fair to expect AXA to pay
the full market value.
A total loss history is likely to reduce the value of a car. So it is reasonable for an insurer to
make some sort of reduction to the market valuation to reflect  that. The policy terms say
market value may be affected if the car has been previously written off and 20% seems a
reasonable reduction to me.
When Mr N disputed the valuation, I believe AXA acted fairly by inviting him to provide 
evidence, such as adverts of similar  cars for sale and referring the valuation  to a senior 
engineer for a second opinion. I have  seen a copy of the advert  Mr N sent to AXA. They  said
Ref: DRN00795403they considered  the advert  but for the reasons I have mentioned above, they decided to rely
on the trade guides to determine the market value. I think  it is reasonable for them to do so.
Overall, I am satisfied that AXAs settlement figure  of £11,320 (less policy  excess)  is in line
with the market value of Mr Ns car at the time of the accident and it was reasonable for
them to apply a 20% reduction.
the hire car
After reporting  the accident, AXA referred Mr N to a not at fault service which provided him
with a hire car. This is a service offered by third parties as an alternative  to a consumer
claiming on their own insurance  policy and paying the policy  excess following a claim. This is
because the not at fault service will recover the cost of the hire car from the party at fault for
the accident.
The supply of the hire care was a separate contract between  Mr N and the not at fault 
service. Having seen  AXAs email referring  Mr N to them, I am satisfied he was aware he
was entering into a separate contract. As the costs  are paid through an unregulated finance
agreement, I cant  look into the actions of the not at fault service in relation  to the hire car.
However it is worth noting Mr N has had the benefit  of a hire car in excess of what his 
insurance policy permits.  Also because Mr N used the not at fault service, AXA has said they
repaid Mr Ns £200 policy excess in June 2019.  So I wont  be commenting further about the
length of time Mr N had the hire car and I will not be asking AXA to cover  the cost of the
alternative arrangements Mr H made for hiring another car.
other
AXA paid £100 compensation  for customer service  related delays when dealing with his
claim and not returning phone  calls when promised.  I appreciate this would have been
frustrating for Mr N. I consider the compensation paid by AXA to be a fair amount.
Lastly, the investigator asked AXA to pay Mr N a further £24 as they paid £11,296  rather
than £11,320,  which AXA has agreed  to do. If this amount has not been paid yet, I would
expect AXA to pay it without further delay following acceptance of my final decision.
response to my provisional  decision
Both parties  were invited  to comment on the above findings. AXA accepted  my provisional  
decision and said they had paid the outstanding  amount of £24 to Mr N in November  2019.  
Mr N didnt accept the findings. He said he is not complaining about the valuation  of the car. 
He said he is unhappy because AXA told him if he provides  adverts of similar cars as his 
own, they would change the settlement amount. He said he spent time and money  to do so 
but the amount remained unchanged.
Mr N also said he was unhappy  that AXA told the not at fault service to collect  the hire car 
when he had yet to receive  the settlement amount. He said he remains unhappy  about  how 
he was treated by AXA in regards to the hire car and he believes they gave incorrect 
information to the not at fault service.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and
Ref: DRN00795404reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ns complaint,  largely for the same  reasons set out above.  
Im not persuaded AXA told Mr N they would change the settlement amount if he provided 
adverts. On balance, I believe AXA said if he could provide them, they would consider them 
when reviewing the settlement amount. As mentioned  in the provisional decision, I am 
satisfied they have done so but they found the valuations in the trade guides to be more 
reliable and I believe it was reasonable for them to do so.
While I appreciate Mr N remains unhappy  about the situation with the hire car. As explained 
in my provisional decision,  the supply of the hire car is a separate contract  which is an 
unregulated finance agreement between  Mr N and the not at fault service.  So it wouldnt be 
appropriate to provide  any further  comments on this matter.  
AXA has confirmed theyve paid the outstanding £24 concerning  the settlement amount. So I 
wont be asking AXA to do anything else to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, it is my final decision to uphold Mr Ns complaint in part. 
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay £24 to Mr N in relation to the valuation of the car, 
something I understand they have already done in response to my provisional decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Simona Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0079540