K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  about how The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) paid Mr Rs share  of 
compensation for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
background
Mr and Mrs R had taken out eight loans with RBS and they bought  PPI policies at the same 
time. In or around 2007, Mr R was sequestrated. At the time of the sequestration, RBS says 
there was an outstanding  balance on a loan and overdraft he had with them.   
Mr and Mrs R complained  that the PPI policies were mis-sold. RBS agreed  and said that 
they were owed some compensation.  It paid Mrs Rs share  of the compensation directly to 
her But instead  of paying this compensation to Mr R directly, RBS said it was going to pay it 
towards the debt he owed  when he was sequestrated.  This is called offsetting. 
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy  that RBS had offset Mr Rs compensation in this way. Our 
adjudicator thought RBS had acted fairly. But Mr and Mrs R disagreed. In summary, they 
said: 
Both Mr and Mrs R were sequestrated at the same  time, but RBS had paid Mrs Rs 
compensation directly  to her; 
When they were discharged from sequestration, they were told they were  discharged  
of all debts and obligations they were  liable for at the start of their sequestration. And 
there was a time limit of five years for extinguished debt in Scotland; 
Two Scottish court  cases had resulted in PPI being paid to consumers in 
circumstances similar to theirs.
The matter  has been passed to me to make  a final decision. And since then,  Ive asked our 
adjudicator to make a number of enquiries. I am grateful  to the parties for the speed with 
which they replied  to us.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the arguments Mr and Mrs R made. But having  done so, I dont 
uphold their complaint.  Ill explain why below.  
Its not in dispute  that the RBS debts Ive mentioned above were  included in Mr Rs 
sequestration. So when he was sequestrated, where possible, his assets  would have been 
used to pay his creditors. But it seems that there  wasnt enough to pay back everything Mr R 
owed to RBS and there was an outstanding  balance at the end of that process.  
Mr R was discharged from sequestration in 2010. But that doesnt  mean  that the outstanding 
balance on his debts  to RBS no longer existed. Discharge means that RBS could no longer  
chase Mr R or take any legal action  against him to recover the money that was owed.  
What that means  in practice is that when RBS worked out how much compensation was 
due, it owed Mr R some money. But even though it couldnt chase him for the outstanding 
debt, Mr R still owed RBS around £24,000. So both RBS and Mr R owed each other some 
Ref: DRN06567502money. And I think its fair for RBS to use Mr Rs compensation to reduce  the amount that he 
owed. 
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs R told us about the five year time limit for pursuing debts 
in Scotland. Im aware of the rules Mr and Mrs R have referred me to. I can see that in 
certain circumstances  a creditor may not be able to take court  action after five years. But 
even if that applied to Mr and Mrs Rs case,  the debt doesnt go away even though RBS 
might not be able to take action to get that money back. 
Im also aware of the two court cases that Mr and Mrs R referred to when they asked for this 
final decision. My understanding is that the issues in those proceedings are to do with 
protected trust deeds, rather  than sequestration.  So they dont  affect the outcome of 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.   
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs R said about  RBS paying Mrs Rs share  to her even though 
shed also entered  sequestration. I dont  know the circumstances of Mrs Rs sequestration. I 
can see that RBS told us they paid her in error. But what Im looking at is whether RBS was 
fair when  it decided to use Mr Rs compensation to repay some of the debt that was 
outstanding. And for the reasons Ive set out above,  I think  it probably was. 
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs R. But for the reasons Ive set 
out above, I dont  need  to ask RBS to take any action to put things right.  
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint against  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2019
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0656750