K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that C M C Chesterfield  Limited (CMC)  mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy  in connection  with a motor-bike loan in March  2005.
background
Mr J said he was told he had to take the PPI in order to get the loan. He also discovered 
when he tried to make  a claim on the policy that a pre-existing  medical  condition  prevented  
his claim succeeding.  
Our adjudicator thought the PPI policy had been mis-sold. He noticed that Mr J had
suffered poor health in the past due to an injury. He didnt think  CMC had made it clear  that 
Mr J wouldnt  be able to claim on the PPI policy for something related to his previous ill 
health. CMC  didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans 
decision.
Ive seen that the loan provider has already compensated Mr J for the undisclosed  
commission it received from the sale of the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI site and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Having considered everything, Im upholding  Mr Js complaint.
This was an advised  sale which means CMC had a duty to recommend a policy  suitable  to 
Mr J and his specific personal  circumstances.
Because this sale took place at a meeting,  I cannot know what was actually said,  so I 
must decide on the balance of probabilities what is most likely to have happened. I have 
therefore considered  the sale documentation  with care and have considered what  Ive 
heard from both Mr J and CMC.
 
Turning first to the Demands & Needs Questionnaire and statement, I note that Mr J 
has answered No to Question 9 which says, Do you have any type of insurance policy 
in place that would specifically provide cover  for the repayment of the finance 
agreement?  
Ive also seen that the Personal Recommendation section of the form also draws 
particular attention to question 9 saying:
If you have  answered No to question 9 above, this indicates that your demands and 
needs are those of a customer  who wishes  and needs to ensure that the repayments of 
your finance  agreement are met now and in the future
The answers you have  provided to the remaining questions have enabled us to 
recommend that the following level of cover is suitable for your needs.
Ref: DRN01502452I think its relevant to point  here out that Question  10, which would  have given clarity on 
Mr Js health status,  has not been completed. The Gold  level of cover  has, nonetheless,  
been filled in as the recommendation.
 
Given the importance of this question,  especially given that Mr J had been suffering from 
a pre-existing medical condition such that a sickness  claim arising  from this condition 
would not be met, I am not persuaded that CMCs representative fulfilled  their obligations 
in ensuring that the PPI was suitable for Mr Js needs.
This finding alone would be sufficient for me to uphold Mr Js complaint, but I am also 
concerned about  the suitability of the policy for Mr Js financial circumstances. I say 
this given that since Mr J was seeking a loan to buy the motor-bike,  CMC should 
have considered whether this policy, which added almost £1,400  to Mr Js borrowing 
for a machine worth just over £6,000,  was appropriate. 
Ive also noted  that in addition the policy didnt offer a pro-rata  refund  which  means 
that, if Mr J had wished  to cancel the policy after the 30-day cooling off period, he 
would have received a very limited refund of the cost. Although this was set out in the 
Key Facts document  that Mr J should  have received  at the time  although I cant  
be sure that he did  it was set out with no prominence within  a closely worded policy 
document.
For the purposes of this decision, I am therefore  upholding  this complaint on the basis 
that the PPI was not suitable for Mr J, given his situation, meaning that its unlikely he 
would have been able to make a successful claim had he needed to.
 
putting things right
Mr J borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve  been and 
he paid more than he shouldve each month. So Mr J needs  to get back the extra hes paid.
So, CMC should:
Work  out and pay Mr J the difference between what  he paid each month on the 
loans and what he wouldve paid each  month  without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr J paid each month from when  he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year .
  HM Revenue & Customs must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off 
if he asks for one.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0150245