K820x#14complaint
Ms E complains  about Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva). She says Aviva  misled her 
about her annuity  and therefore mis-sold it. 
background
On 1 May 2008  Ms E wrote to Aviva  saying she wanted to take her pension  in the form of 
25% tax free cash  with an annuity.  She asked it to send her the paperwork she needed to 
complete to do this.
Aviva sent Ms E the relevant retirement  documentation. Copies were also forwarded to the 
financial adviser Aviva held on its records for Ms E at the time. 
Ms E completed the retirement  forms and returned them  to Aviva.  She chose to purchase an 
annuity with Aviva and receive tax free cash.
In May 2017  Ms E wrote  to Aviva saying  shed like to cash in her annuity.  She explained that 
at the time shed  originally applied to take her pension Aviva  had said she had to buy an 
annuity. Ms E said she felt shed been given  the wrong information at the time.
Aviva responded to Ms E and said it didnt currently allow customers to cash  in their 
annuities, but it invited her to provide  it with any evidence she had to show  shed previously 
been told shed  be able to cash in her annuity. 
In November 2018 Ms E wrote to Aviva again saying  she wanted to cash in her annuity. She 
repeated what shed said in 2017 and said Aviva had also assured her over the telephone in 
2008 that she wouldnt be able to get a better deal if she transferred to another pension  
provider. Ms E said she now felt that information was incorrect.  
Aviva provided its final response  to Ms Es complaint on 30 November 2018. In summary it 
said:
it was only the provider of Ms Es policy and not therefore responsible for any advice  
she may have been given  regarding the suitability of her annuity
its records showed Ms E had received  financial  advice from an adviser and 
suggested she direct her questions and complaint to it
Unhappy with Avivas  response Ms E referred her complaint  to our service. 
Our investigator considered the matter and in summary said:
she thought  it was unlikely Aviva had told Ms E in 2008 that the only option available  
to her was purchasing  an annuity  with it and that shed be unable to find a better deal 
elsewhere
documentation Ms E was provided with at the time made  it clear  that there were 
other retirement options available  and that she didnt just have to purchase an 
annuity with Aviva
Aviva  hadnt provided Ms E with any financial  advice  and she couldnt see that it had 
mis-sold her annuity
it was Avivas discretion not to allow Ms E to cash in her annuity 
Ref: DRN09881152Ms E didnt agree with our investigator. So the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Ms Es complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should  emphasise that while Ive 
taken note of the correspondence, arguments  and comments made by both parties,  I have 
limited my response to what  I consider  to be the issues  central to this complaint. That is to 
say whether Aviva mis-sold Ms Es annuity or misled  her in the way she suggests it did. And 
whether Aviva has done anything wrong  by not allowing  Ms E to cash in her annuity.
Ms E has said Aviva provided her with financial advice regarding  the purchase  of her annuity  
and that on the basis  of the information it gave it mis-sold her annuity. I havent  seen 
anything in the available evidence to support  this. 
The documentation  Aviva sent Ms E when she wanted to take retirement  benefits  strongly  
recommended she seek  financial  advice. Avivas records from the time also showed that 
Ms E had a financial adviser and that a copy of her retirement pack  had been  sent to them.
Ive also looked  at the annuity application  form Ms E completed  and signed  in 2008. Within  
her application  Ms E confirmed shed sought financial advice about her retirement  options  
and provided her financial advisers details. 
Based on the available evidence Im not persuaded Aviva provided Ms E with financial 
advice regarding the purchase  of her annuity. Because of this I cant say that Aviva was or is 
responsible for the suitability of her retirement choices in 2008. 
It appears Ms E didnt receive any advice  when she purchased her annuity. Indeed  the 
financial adviser Ms E listed  on her application form has recently confirmed it didnt provide 
her with any financial advice. It has explained  that although Ms E did contact them in 2008,  
once she understood shed  have  to pay a fee for its advice she decided not to take matters 
further and instead proceeded to deal with Aviva directly.
The fact Ms E didnt  receive financial advice from an adviser doesnt automatically mean 
Aviva is responsible for the retirement  choices she made. 
While Aviva didnt provide Ms E with financial advice I do think  it had a responsibility to 
ensure she had enough information about her retirement options to make  an informed 
decision about taking  benefits. Aviva also had a duty to process  the instruction it received 
from Ms E correctly.  From  what Ive seen Aviva fulfilled its responsibility to Ms E in both 
these instances.  
Ms E has said that just prior to purchasing her annuity she had a call with Aviva where she 
was told her only option was to purchase and annuity with Aviva  and that she wouldnt get a 
better deal elsewhere.  Ms E feels its on this basis Aviva gave her bad advice. Unfortunately 
due to how much time has passed since Ms E says her call with Aviva took place theres  no 
record of the call Ms E says took place between  her and Aviva. 
While I dont doubt Ms Es recollection  of events, I must have regard for what the available 
evidence does show. The retirement documentation  Ms E was provided with by Aviva before 
Ref: DRN09881153she purchased her annuity  clearly outlined what her retirement options were.  Specifically  
Aviva said:
You can move all of your retirement fund () to another  pension  provider if you want them  
to pay our benefits using  the Open Market Option  ()
You have  the following options:
To take your retirement benefits with [Aviva]
To move your retirement fund to another  pension  provider (to purchase an immediate 
pension)
To not take your pension benefits  at this time ()
If you want to take retirement benefits with [Aviva], please complete Section A of the 
Benefit Payment Instruction () 
If you change your mind about the option you have  selected, you have 30 days from the date 
of signing the Benefit  Payment Instruction to both complete  and return  the Cancellation  Form 
and return all tax free-cash sum and instalments we may already have  paid ()
You might want to move the retirement  fund to another  pension  provider because
They may have  higher  annuity rates, which could provide a higher pension  as no one 
provider can quote the best annuity  rates in all circumstances
They may be able to offer different retirement options or different pension  products 
more suited to your individual circumstances ()
Im satisfied that in 2008 Aviva was clear  about  what Ms Es retirement options were. I 
havent seen anything to suggest she was told her only option  was purchasing an annuity 
with Aviva or that she wouldnt be able to get a better deal elsewhere. Indeed the 
documentation Aviva  provided Ms E with, which included the application form she later 
signed, said the opposite.  
If the contents of the documentation  Aviva  provided Ms E with was at odds with or didnt  
completely match what she says she was led to understand about her retirement benefits 
following her call with Aviva  I wouldve  expected Ms E to raise  this with Aviva  directly or 
make use of the cancellation  rights she was provided with. The fact that Ms E didnt 
indicates to me that she was satisfied with the selection shed made  at the time and 
understood the basis on which her plan was to be settled.  Ms E completed and signed the 
annuity application form which confirmed she wanted to take an annuity with Aviva.
Turning now to Ms Es request that Aviva allow her to cash  in her annuity.  Ms E would  like to 
cancel her annuity and receive a lump sum instead. Although current  legislation and Her 
Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) rules allow  (subject to certain conditions being  
met) an annuity in payment  to be converted into a cash lump sum, Aviva  isnt under any 
obligation to do this. Aviva has taken a decision not to allow Ms Es existing annuity to be 
converted into a lump  sum. And as has already been explained by our investigator and 
confirmed by Aviva, that is Avivas discretion. It isnt for me to interfere with Avivas  decision 
in this regard.  
   
In saying that, I have  taken into account  Ms Es personal circumstances. Shes  explained 
shes in financial difficulty. I understand Ms E feels that cancelling  her annuity and receiving 
a cash lump sum would  really help improve her situation. But while I have sympathy  for Ms E 
Ref: DRN09881154I dont see that there is any basis on which I can direct Aviva to take a different  approach  in 
her particular case. 
I dont doubt Ms Es sincerity in bringing this complaint but I dont think  there  are enough  
grounds here for me to reasonably conclude  that Aviva has done  anything wrong regarding 
the issues Ms E has raised. I understand Ms E may be disappointed with my decision. But 
for the reasons Ive explained Im unable to require Aviva do as shes asked. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0988115