K821x#15Complaint
Ms C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund  almost  £4,500  which was stolen from 
her bank due to a third party  scam.  
HSBC says theyre not liable for the loss because Ms C authorised  the payments and they 
could not have reasonably intervened, or done more to recoup the money  from the receiving 
bank. But, they accepted  the service they provided was poor and paid £75 in compensation 
for this.  
Background
On the 10 September 2018  Ms C got a call from someone claiming  to be from HM Revenue 
& Customs (HMRC). The caller said she hadnt paid her taxes and owed HMRC money   
almost £4,500. The caller  convinced  Ms C they were  genuine and to avoid being arrested, 
she made a payment of £2,600, via online banking, to the scammers account at 2:37pm. 
The payment was made via a third party bank  account which Ive previously considered in a 
separate decision. At 2:40pm Ms C made a second payment to the scammers account  for 
£1,799 using her HSBC  account. And at 4:55pm Ms C was then further  persuaded, by the 
offer of an appointment with HMRC  to discuss her overdue tax, to transfer  an additional 
£2,700 to a different fraudulent bank account. To obtain the funds for this payment Ms C 
spoke with HSBCs credit card department and arranged an immediate  balance  transfer of 
£2,800 to her current account. 
After making these payments, Ms C spoke  to her husband and realised shed been 
scammed. And she contacted HSBC  at around  9:40pm  on the 10 September  2019. On the 
11 September 2018 HSBC contacted both beneficiary banks, Ill call Bank N and Bank P, 
however they were  advised no funds remained. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Cs complaint and upheld it. They thought that HSBC  should 
have identified the possibility of fraud and thought the transactions were unusual enough to 
warrant further investigation because of:
The change in operation of the account
Two new payees being set up
The size of the transactions
They recommended  that HSBC refund the full amount and pay 8% interest on the funds from 
the date of the transactions to the date of the refund.  
HSBC didnt accept  our investigators  outcome.  So the case was referred to me for a 
decision. 
In reviewing Ms Cs complaint I came to a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. I 
wrote to HSBC and Ms C on the 26 February 2021  giving both parties until the 
12 March 2021  to accept or reject what I thought about the complaint and provide further 
evidence. 
HSBC didnt respond but Ms C responded and said in summary:
The bank  should have noticed that the payee  she entered  didnt  match the payee of 
the destination account. 
Ref: DRN09399402Being  threatened that she might  be arrested was very frightening.  
Ms C also reiterated a timeline  detailing the events of the scam. 
Ms C also made comments about the separate complaint Ive considered. I realise this will 
disappoint Ms C but as Ive already issued a separate decision regarding the third party bank 
Im unable to look into that complaint further. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not changed the outcome I reached in my Provisional Decision, and Ill 
explain why below. 
In my Provisional Decision I said:
I accept that these were  authorised payments even though Ms C was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She used her security  credentials to request the payment. So although 
she did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Service  
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Ms C is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance.  
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
So, taking all of this into account, I need  to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Ms C when she made the two payments to the scammer, or 
whether it should  have  done more than it did.
Firstly Ive considered the payment Ms C made  to Bank N of £1,799. I realise this will 
disappoint Ms C but taking everything  into account I dont think  this payment was particularly 
suspicious or unusual  enough to say HSBC ought to have had concerns that Ms C was 
being scammed. I say this because the amount Ms C transferred wasnt particularly unusual 
for her and she accepts  she authorised it. I realise  that Ms C made the payment from her 
account with a third party  bank immediately  prior to this, but this isnt something HSBC  
would have been aware of. 
Ref: DRN09399403Ive noted that Ms Cs balance was taken down  to single figures once the payment was 
made  and Id likely regard this as suspicious had this been  unusual for Ms C or payments 
were due out of her account near that time which couldnt be honoured. However, Im 
satisfied that the low balance isnt necessarily  a rare occurrence for Ms C  and I cant see 
any standing orders or direct debits, near the time of the low balance, which werent  or 
wouldnt have been honoured because of the transfer. Overall,  having reviewed her account 
activity in the weeks and months  leading up to the transaction, I dont think the transaction 
was sufficiently suspicious  to conclude HSBC ought  to have identified that it may potentially  
be fraudulent. 
Ive moved on to consider the second transaction made at 4:50pm to Bank P. As Ive 
previously explained  HSBC have a responsibility  to identify any unusual  or suspicious 
transactions. For online transactions like Ms C this may involve following the BSI:PAS 
Protecting Customers from financial harm  as a result of fraud  or financial  abuse  Code of 
Practice. 
The BSI outlines  a number of key principles for banks to follow including taking a proactive 
approach to minimising risks and states banks should have measures in place to identify  or 
detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud. This includes sudden  
increase in spending, sudden changes to the operation of the account and a payment or 
payments to a new payee. It goes on to say that the appropriate staff should  be notified and 
contact made with the customers in a maximum timeframe of 24 hours. 
Having looked  at the evidence provided I think the second payment of £2,700  was out of 
character and unusual  for Ms C.  Looking at Ms Cs account statements in the twelve  
months leading  up to the scam I can see Ms C has made three bill payments of over £1,000  
 none of which occurred on the same day. However, the £2,700 payment Ms C made  to the 
fraudster was carried out within four hours  of the first payment. Ive also considered that both 
payments went to two newly created payees and show  a sudden change  in the operation  of 
the account. For the reasons Ive already  explained I dont think  the creation of a new payee  
on its own should lead to HSBC identifying the first payment, in particular as theres  
evidence on Ms Cs statements that creating and sending funds to new payees isnt 
necessarily unusual for her. However,  Im satisfied that creating two new payees and 
sending larger than usual  payments to them within the space of four hours  is something  that 
should have triggered HSBCs fraud  detection systems. I also note that Ms Cs second 
payment was made to Bank P, a pre-paid  card provider. Ive looked  at Ms Cs statements 
and I cant see Ms C has paid Bank  P before and its a more  unusual recipient for such a 
large payment.
On balance I dont  think HSBC should have  allowed  the £2,700 payment to be processed 
until it had spoken  with Ms C  the out of character spending, creation of two new payees 
within a short timeframe  and the destination of the funds should have alerted the bank and I 
think an intervention  would have made the difference  here. 
Ms C was advised not to tell HSBC staff about her contact from HMRC because they might 
freeze her accounts. But, I think its likely with some  probing this story wouldnt have held up 
 Ms C wasnt  given an alternative  story to tell the bank why she was making two large 
payments to new payees within such  a short period  time.  If the bank had probed properly  
including asking questions such  as why she making the payments, had she received  a call 
from anyone asking  her to transfer  the money  I think Ms C would have eventually told 
them about  the contact she received from the fraudster.  Ive also considered  here that Ms C 
Ref: DRN09399404spoke with her husband  soon after she made the second payment, and he persuaded her it 
was in fact a scam. As this is a well-known scam  if HSBC had probed in an appropriate 
way  it seems highly likely the bank would  have also identified this and persuaded Ms C not 
to authorise the payment.  
I think my conclusions  about what is likely to have happened if HSBC  had identified  the 
second payment  as suspicious and asked Ms C probing questions are reinforced  by the fact 
that Ms C phoned HSBC  the evening of the disputed transactions and followed this up the 
next morning.  Unfortunately by then it was too late  the funds had already been removed 
from both Bank N and Bank P by the scammers.  
Ive also considered whether HSBC did enough  in trying to recover  the stolen  funds from the 
payee banks before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. There was a delay in 
HSBC making contact with both Banks  after receiving contact from Ms C. Ive considered the 
payment for £1,799 Ms C made to Bank N first. 
Bank N have confirmed that Ms Cs money  was moved on by the time HSBC made contact, 
however its important for me to consider  if HSBC  had contacted Bank  N immediately after 
being notified by Ms C whether any funds  would have been recovered.  Ive contacted 
Bank N for more details  regarding exactly when the money was transferred out. 
Unfortunately its not been possible for them to obtain this information.  However,  its not 
unusual in scams like this for the fraudsters to withdraw funds very quickly.  So, on balance 
Id be surprised if funds  did remain in the scammers account when Ms C contacted HSBC 
around seven hours after the first scam payment. And I havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest any funds  would  have been  recovered even if HSBC had acted sooner.
Ive also considered if the delay in HSBC contacting Bank P made a difference to them 
recovering the funds.  However, Im satisfied it wouldnt because  Bank  Ps records show  that 
the scammers withdrew all the money within  an hour of receiving it. And prior to Ms C 
contacting contact HSBC. 
Ive also considered whether Ms C should  bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. However, its clear  that up to and including the time of authorising the payments, 
Ms C was subject to a sophisticated and clever fraudster. Therefore, I dont think  there was 
any contributory negligence  on this occasion. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied HSBC should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Ms C for 
the loss she suffered from the second  payment  plus any interest  and charges incurred on 
her HSBC credit card as a result of the transfer.  
I also think it is appropriate to make a small award  of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience Ms C has suffered.  In reaching  that conclusion I am mindful  that her loss was 
ultimately caused by the fraudsters but HSBC could have prevented  the second payment.  
And consequently  reduced the distress  Ms C experienced. 
Ms C responded to my Provisional Decision with some further  comments. Ms C highlighted 
that when she made  both transfers to the scammers she put her name as the payee  under 
the instruction  of the fraudsters  and asks why HSBC didnt pick this up. I can see Ms Cs 
argument here  and its true that new rules came  into place, called confirmation of payee, in 
July 2020 which require banks to check the name  of the person a customer is expecting  to 
pay against the account holder they are paying. However, its important for me to consider 
the regulations  and guidance at the time of the fraud. And at the time Ms C was 
Ref: DRN09399405unfortunately subject  to this scam  these  rules werent in place. Therefore, I cant conclude Id 
have expected HSBC to identify this discrepancy.  
In considering Ms Cs second point, I agree that Ms C was under significant pressure from 
the fraudsters. And wasnt negligent  in her actions.  
For the reasons  Ive outlined above I wont be changing the conclusions  I reached in my 
Provisional Decision. And I think HSBC should reimburse Ms C for the loss of the second 
payment, plus interest and charges  incurred on her credit card, and a small compensation 
payment of £300.  
My final decision
My final decision is I direct HSBC UK Bank  Plc to:
Pay Ms C £2,700; plus
Rework Ms Cs credit card to remove any interest or charges incurred as a result of 
the bank transfer;  and
Pay Ms C £300  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2021.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0939940