K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that Barclays Bank  UK plc misadvised them  about  the best 
method of receiving funds  into their account.  
background
Mr and Mrs M were  due to receive $133,000  into their account from the US and Mr M called 
Barclays to find out what their options were for receiving  the funds. The call handler at 
Barclays advised Mr M that one option would be to receive the funds into their existing 
sterling account where there would be a flat fee of £6.The call handler also advised Mr M 
that he would receive  the rate on the day and that he wasnt  able to predict what this rate 
might be. He also advised Mr M that he could open a US dollar  account  where  the funds 
would remain in US dollars,  meaning he could transfer across to Sterling when the rate was 
favourable. The call handler advised Mr M that it was up to him which option he chose. 
Mr M chose  the latter and, on transferring the funds  to Sterling, was disappointed  with the 
rate he received. He believes the rate was more favourable on the day he called up and 
thinks that Barclays are responsible for him receiving £1,500 less than he was expecting.  
Barclays have responded to the complaint, advising that they are unable  to predict future 
rates and that the decision to choose  to open a US dollar  account  and transfer  funds on the 
day of his choosing  were not their responsibility.  The investigator looked at what  had 
happened but didnt think Barclays had done anything  wrong.  
Mr and Mrs M disagree with the investigators  findings as they dont believe weve  
considered things from their point  of view.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint, and Ill explain my reasons why.   
I dont think Barclays are responsible for the exchange rate on the day Mr and Mrs M 
decided to transfer their US dollars into Sterling.  Having listened to the call between Mr M 
and the call handler at Barclays, I think Mr M had both options explained to him sufficiently in 
order for him to make an informed choice as to which one he believed suited his 
circumstances. 
He was also told that, if he chose to open  a US dollar account, he would  have more  control  
over the exchange  rate as he could  choose  when he wanted to transfer and convert to 
Sterling. Further, I understand Barclays were  able to demonstrate that the rate on the day of 
transfer was more favourable than the rate they would have received had they transferred  
the funds into Sterling on the day of receipt. Whilst I can appreciate how disappointing  it 
must have  been  for Mr and Mrs M to have  discovered that the rate on the day they decided  
to transfer the funds  wasnt as favourable as theyd hoped, I dont think Barclays can be held 
responsible for this. So I cant see that Barclays have done anything  wrong,  here.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I am not upholding this complaint.  There  is no action required by 
Barclays Bank UK plc.
Ref: DRN06538852Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2019.
Rebecca Kemp
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0653885