K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe  SE (Aioi) dealt
with an incident  he reported as two separate incidents. So Aioi said Mr R needed to pay two
excess payments if he wanted  to claim for both areas of damage.
background
Mr R bought a car insurance policy with the insurer, Aioi. In August 2018 he told Aioi that a
third party (TP) swerved into the nearside  of his car while he was overtaking.  Then Mr R
stopped - but the TP then deliberately drove into the rear of his car. So Mr Rs car had been
damaged in two areas.
Aioi said it would treat the incidents  separately. This meant if Mr R wanted  to claim for
repairs to his car for both incidents, hed need to pay two excesses. It accepted liability for
the first incident. It said the onus was on Mr R to take greater  care while  overtaking.
Mr R didnt think Aiois decision was fair. He didnt want  to pay two excess payments and
didnt want to make a claim for damage to the side of his car (caused by the first incident.)
Mr Rs excess  payment  was £1,200 per claim.  He wanted to pursue the TP directly for the
damage to the rear of his car caused by the second  incident.  He wanted the TP to admit
liability for the second incident so that he wouldnt have  to pay any excess.
The TP Insurer (TPI)  dealt with their claim as one incident with two points of impact.  Aioi
settled the TPIs claim. The TPs car was declared a total loss.
Our investigator thought Aioi should  treat the incidents under one claim.
Aioi didnt agree. It said it correctly recorded  the incidents as two. It said its decision to
accept liability for the first incident was correct.  It recorded the second incident  as
notification only because  Mr R didnt want to pay the excess  and wanted  to pursue the TP.
Aioi referred Mr R to its nominated solicitors for assistance.
It said it will be happy to deal with Mr Rs claim for repairs caused by the second  incident.
But unless the TPI admits liability for it, Aioi is unable to waive the excess.
Mr R wants Aioi to waive at least one of the excess payments as a gesture of goodwill. Its
been a year since the incident and his car is still damaged.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 October  2019.  I thought it was reasonable for Aioi to 
treat the incidents separately. 
Mr R didnt agree. Hes provided a copy of a letter from his solicitor who says they believe  it 
should be treated  as two incidents  but also says it cant  conclude  this without sight  of a 
police report. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN08394972Aioi requested a copy of the police report and chased for it but didnt receive one. So I think 
it was fair and reasonable for Aioi to reach a decision  based  on the information it had at the 
time. So I dont intend to change anything about  the view I set out in my provisional  decision. 
From the information Aioi received,  there  was one collision between the parties - and then 
another collision afterwards to different areas of both cars and under  different 
circumstances.
We dont decide  liability. But we look at whether an insurer reached its decision reasonably
and in line with the policy. Aiois policy has a very common term which  says it can take over
the defence and settlement of a claim. This means Aioi might  make a decision  Mr R doesnt
agree with. But the policy allows Aioi to do this. We dont disagree with this term in principle,
provided Aioi can show it treated Mr R fairly when it was applied.
Mr R gave Aioi his account of what happened. He said the TP was repeatedly  braking  in
front of him - and at one point stopped for no reason. So Mr R decided  to overtake. But he
said the TP swerved into his car as he did so - and caused the first collision.
Mr R said he then stopped in front of the TP car and the TP drove into the rear of his car.
Mr R believes  he isnt at fault for either incident.
The TP gave a different  account. They said that Mr R attempted to overtake when it wasnt
safe and caused the first collision as he tried to pull back in. The TP said Mr R then drove  off
- but stopped suddenly while the TP was following  and caused the second collision.
Aioi decided that Mr R was responsible for the first incident. Based on the information  it had,
I think it reached this decision reasonably.
Aioi didnt settle the first claim on a without prejudice  basis. So this may prevent Mr R from
considering further  action  against the TP directly for any losses he suffered due to damage
to the side of his car or any injury (caused by the first incident).
Mr R can pursue his claim for damage caused by the second  incident with the TPI. I cant
comment on the likelihood of the TPI accepting  liability for the second incident  - nor can I
comment on their decision  to treat it as one incident. I can only consider the actions of Aioi.
The TPI provided a brief report which said the costs  to repair the TPs car exceeded its
value. So they claimed for the total loss valuation for the TPs car of £1,095,  which Aioi 
settled.
We asked Aioi for a more  detailed damage report from the TPI. It said it didnt receive one.
But from the report it did receive, damage was reported to the off side,  steering and front of
the TP car. Due to the amount involved, Aioi decided  to settle the TPIs claim in full for the
car. It believed the steering damage  was probably caused by the first side on incident.
Although the report is limited in detail, I agree its possible that the damage to the side of the
TPs car alone might have  caused it to be a total loss, given the pre accident value of the
car. So overall, I think the way Aioi recorded  the first claim was reasonable.
I dont think Aioi caused undue delay in its investigation. And I cant  say that Aioi is
responsible for the fact that Mr Rs car hasnt been  repaired. This is due to Mr Rs decision
not to pay the excess payment(s).
Ref: DRN08394973I understand Mr R will be disappointed. But based on what  Ive seen, I think  Aioi has acted  
reasonably and in line with the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019. 
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0839497