K820x#14complaint
Ms C has complained that a glass replacement agent for U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
caused damage to her car. Ms C made  a claim under her car insurance policy.
background
Ms C made a claim  after she discovered somebody  had broken the glass  to a door of her 
car. 
Ms C complained to UKI that the glass replacement agent broke  a mechanism and carried 
out poor repairs. Ms C refused to pay the £75 excess and said she had to pay a garage to 
repair the damage caused by UKIs  agent.
UKI said the agent  reported on the job sheet that the mechanism was already broken.  Ms C 
had signed the job sheet.  
Ms C brought her complaint to us. She said she signed the sheet in agreement  to the agent 
being paid - as thats what he told her. Ms C wanted UKI to reimburse her for the £200 she 
paid a garage to repair  the mechanism and refit the glass. 
Our investigator thought UKI had acted reasonably. 
Ms C didnt agree. So the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how strongly Ms C feels about her complaint. She has given us a detailed 
account of what  she says happened. We take an even handed  approach when looking at the 
information provided by both parties.  Some evidence carries  more weight than others.  
Ms C agrees  she signed the job sheet. The agent  commented as follows:
prior to fitting new glass noticed  plastic locating bracket broke  unable to fit glass   
have fitted glass  temporarily
Ms C told UKI that she took her car to her preferred  garage to repair the mechanism and refit 
the glass. She said they told her the works hadnt been  properly carried out. UKI told Ms C 
that if she could  obtain a report  from her garage confirming the agent  had caused damage, it 
would consider this. I think this was a reasonable approach for UKI to take. 
Theres no dispute that the mechanism  was damaged. The dispute is whether  the damage 
was caused by the agent or already  existed.  Ms C says that she only signed the sheet under 
pressure and didnt  agree that the mechanism was already broken. Ms C said she feels  the 
sheet was part of a forgery and the agent put pressure  on her to sign it. 
Ref: DRN08887012But I cant form any conclusions as to what was discussed between Ms C and the agent. 
The evidence  the job sheet which Ms C signed  carries more weight in this case.  It shows 
that the agent recorded that the mechanism was damaged before work  began  and that his 
repair was temporary as a result. Photos provided by Ms C dont prove that the agent  
damaged her car. 
I realise Ms C will be very disappointed with my decision. But based  on what  Ive seen, I 
dont think UKI acted unreasonably.  So I think its entitled to ask Ms C to pay the £75 excess  
in line with the terms of her policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0888701