K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about his home insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc because it has 
declined a claim he made after his two bicycles were stolen.
background
Mr H and his partner  locked their two bikes together and secured them to a friends  bike. 
That bike was attached and locked to a tree. Thieves broke the locks  attaching  Mr Hs 
bikes together and to the other bike and stole them. The third bike and its lock were left 
undisturbed. Mr H made a claim to AXA.
AXA said the policy excludes theft of unattended bikes unless they are attached  to a 
permanent structure.  It said locking the bikes together meant they werent  secured as 
the policy required for theft to be covered. AXA declined the claim.
Mr H appealed to AXA but it wasnt persuaded to change its position.  AXAs final 
response reiterated  that the circumstances didnt  meet  the cover available  in the policy.  
It added the point of the term is to minimise the risk of theft.  Mr H complained  to us.
Our investigator explained that we couldnt  look at how the policy  was sold or anything  
Mr H may have  been told at that time but we could look at AXAs  actions in respect of the 
claim. He felt the term was clear and it was fair for AXA to rely on it in the circumstances 
here. He said he didnt think AXA had done anything wrong  and, therefore, he couldnt 
make it do something different.
Mr H was unhappy. Whilst our investigator  responded  to Mr Hs concerns, Mr H asked for 
an ombudsmans consideration. I considered the complaint and felt it should be upheld.  
I issued a provisional decision to share my view with both parties. My provisional  findings 
were:
On a strict consideration  of the policy terms Mr Hs claim fails. I realise Mr H thinks that 
is unfair. But the fact of the matter is his bicycles werent secured as the policy  requires 
for theft cover to be in place.
However, this service, as AXA is aware, isnt bound to only consider matters based on strict 
interpretation of the policy terms. As such we dont expect an insurer to take that line either.  
Rather, if applying the policy terms will create  an unfair outcome, we expect  an insurer  to do 
what is fair in the circumstances.  A consideration of what  is fair will include taking into 
account what the purpose of the term is and the circumstances  of the event that occurred, 
including, on occasion, the intent or mindset  of the policyholder.
As AXA confirmed in its final response, the purpose of the term in question  is to minimise 
the risk of theft.  Essentially AXA doesnt  want to provide  theft cover  for careless  bicycle 
owners who make their bikes a target for thieves by not securing them  properly before 
leaving them  unattended. If bikes are only secured together, or are attached to a light, 
moveable, and/or easily dismantled object, then that makes the work of even a casual thief 
very easy.
Insurance is all about risk and bicycles left in those  type of circumstances are at high risk 
of being stolen. AXA doesnt  want to offer cover for that, and that is understandable.
Ref: DRN01204012However, that isnt what happened here.  Here Mr H had two bikes stolen. They were  
locked together.  But Mr H hadnt  only locked  them together  and left them  like that  which 
he could have done. Instead  he took care to secure them to another bicycle which  was 
attached to an immovable object. So Mr H didnt carelessly court  the risk of the bikes 
being stolen.
Furthermore, the bikes werent  stolen by dint of the bicycle they were attached to not being 
a secure anchor point because, despite it being secured to the tree, it was dismantled  in 
some way in order to free Mr Hs bikes. The bike that was left wasnt  compromised in 
anyway, it didnt create a weak  link between Mr Hs bikes and the tree. Rather Mr Hs bikes  
were stolen because  the thieves  broke the locks on those two bikes. There  is no reason to 
think then that, if Mr H had attached the bikes directly to the tree, the theft wouldnt have 
occurred.
AXA may think its relevant that the bike attached to the tree wasnt  stolen. But as AXA 
didnt investigate the theft it isnt clear why that bike was left. Perhaps the lock used 
deterred the thief, or the bike that was left wasnt desired for some  reason. In short, theres  
nothing to make me think that the determining  factor in that bike being left behind  was the 
fact it was attached  to the tree.
Overall, it seems to me that the circumstances of the event and the actions of Mr H, all go 
to show that he acted in line with the purpose of the term in question.  Therefore, even 
though the circumstances  of the theft didnt meet the definition  of cover exactly, it would 
seem an unfair result  for the claim to be declined. Im satisfied that AXA should fairly and 
reasonably accept the claim and settle it in line with the remaining policy  terms and 
conditions.
Mr H accepted my findings.  AXA did not. AXA said all it can do is assess a claim on the 
basis of the policy terms and that is what it had done  here. It said Mr Hs bikes were 
clearly more accessible than the one belonging  to his friend because they were stolen and 
the friends bike wasnt. It said this might  be because  only one lock was used  so in 
breaking the one lock the thief was getting  two bikes.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of any policy are important.  But I think AXA has missed  my point made 
provisionally  that this service also requires insurers to take a fair and reasonable approach  
when considering and applying policy terms. 
Just because the friends bike was left doesnt  mean  its most  likely Mr Hs bikes  were more  
accessible than his. The use of one lock might have  attracted the thieves. But that would be 
no different if the lock had been securing the bikes to the tree instead of another bike (which  
itself was attached to the tree). 
I remain of the view that, in the circumstances here, relying on the policy terms to decline the 
claim creates an unfair outcome. I still think,  for the reasons stated provisionally and finally, 
that AXA should accept the claim and settle it in line with the remaining policy  terms and 
conditions.
Ref: DRN01204013my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to accept and settle Mr Hs claim 
for the stolen bikes in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0120401