K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains that the appointed representative  of Legal & General Partnership Services 
Limited mis-sold him a mortgage  in 2005.
background 
In 2005, Mr F had a mortgage with a lender for £33,000. Mr F was repaying the capital at 
£200 per month with 12 years remaining on that mortgage.  An adviser  from the appointed 
representative did a client review and made several recommendations. The first 
recommendation in August 2005,  based on increasing the mortgage  to £50,000 with a 12-
year term was accompanied  by a Mortgage  Record  of Suitability (MRoS).  There  is no 
available MRoS for the second recommendation in September, but it was on the basis of the 
second one that Mr F went ahead  with the remortgage. It was based on increasing the 
mortgage to £50,815 - an extra £790  was for fees - on a 25-year  term which would was four 
years beyond Mr Fs expected retirement  age. Although Mr F believes he was unemployed 
at the time, the client review recorded that he was earning £30,000 per annum as a 
bricklayer. 
our investigators view
Our investigator felt that the recommendation of a mortgage going beyond  Mr Fs expected 
retirement age was unsuitable and upheld that part of the complaint.  He recommended  the 
following redress:
L&G should
Refund interest from Mr Fs retirement age to the expected end of the mortgage term 
(approximately four years) plus additional  8% interest.
Refund any fees added to the mortgage  plus additional 8% interest.
Pay £250 for the inconvenience caused.
L&G disagreed saying that the extension of the mortgage term was for affordability and so 
was justified. 
my provisional findings
I considered the evidence  in this complaint and issued a provisional decision. I summarise  
my findings  below.
I noted that Mr F came to us because he had difficulty reconciling the figures  on the 
paperwork he held. I went into the circumstances surrounding his remortgage in 2005 I 
noted Mr F had an existing repayment mortgage  with a balance  of £33,000 that would  
mature in 2017  and wanted  to raise some money to settle with his ex-partner and to do 
some modifications to his house. 
I said that Mr F got an illustration for a 12-year  mortgage with a related MRoS  but then the 
offer changed and he got and accepted a mortgage  for a term of 25 years maturing in 2030 
at an initial  cost of £286.84. I noted that this allowed  him to have the extra money he wanted  
but meant that he would  have to continue  payments  for a further four years into his expected 
retirement. There was no MRoS available to record the reasoning  behind  the changed 
advice. So, I said the explanation for the discrepancies  on Mr Fs paperwork which was Mr 
Ref: DRN04040622Fs original query  is that the MRoS  he has is different from what was contained in the 
mortgage offer. 
As L&G had no record  of whether this mortgage  was suitable, I said that we could under our 
inquisitorial remit, look at the suitability of L&Gs advice  to Mr F to take out this mortgage.  I 
noted that the fact find recorded that Mr F was an employee working as a bricklayer with an 
anticipated retirement age of 65 which  would  be in 2026.I said that it wasnt entirely  clear  
whether Mr F was employed or not at the time of the mortgage.  I felt that like many in the 
building trade  that he would  have  periods  when work may be scarce but the application 
notes that he was employed  at the time of the application. 
I noted that the existing MRoS recommended a 12 year term which  would have tracked the 
term of his previous  mortgage but the repayments would have been £458.51.I said that  
although the MRoS said that these are affordable and the Client  Review  indicated that Mr F 
had very little other outgoings that this figure was substantially  more than the £200 per 
month he was paying. I noted that the term in the mortgage offer was for another  25 years 
although there was no evidence  to why that was chosen. L& G suggested it was to meet  
affordability and I said I assumed thats  why a longer  period than 12 years was chosen.  
But I said that affordability must look at the whole  period of the mortgage and I couldnt see 
the issue being addressed as to what Mr F was to do when his income diminished in 
retirement. I believed that a more suitable mortgage advice would have been to adjust the 
monthly payments  so that Mr F could  pay off the capital balance during his expected  working 
life. My view was that although that would mean an increase in the monthly payments from 
£286.84, the evidence is that such payments were affordable and would have been better 
advice for Mr F.
Although L&G said that Mr F could  make overpayments during  his working life to reduce the 
capital balance, I didnt  believe that such was Mr Fs expectation at the time he took the 
mortgage out. I felt that Mr F would have had a reasonable  expectation  that if he met the 
monthly contractual payments  on his mortgage  during  his working life that by the time he 
reached 65 that his liability  to pay his mortgage would have finished. So, my view was that in 
this respect this mortgage was unsuitable for Mr F and I intended to uphold  this complaint. I 
then looked at what redress should be paid.
I said my view as to the proper redress differs from that suggested  by our investigator.  I 
noted that If L&G had offered Mr F the shorter term that I had suggested,  he would at this 
stage have paid off more from the capital balance than is presently the case and so I 
believed that the redress should  be like a case of underfunding. In order  to put Mr F in the 
position he should have been in, I believed that L&G should  work out how much Mr F would 
still have left to pay if the mortgage term had been  until he was 65. It should  then pay him 
the difference between that figure and what he has left to pay on his existing  mortgage.  I 
said Mr F can use that money at his discretion to bring his payments down or to arrange a 
term reduction with his lender but that is a matter for himself  which  he may wish to take 
advice on. But I believed it achieves a fair result. I also said that I didnt believe that an 
award for Mr Fs trouble and upset  was appropriate  in this case. I invited Mr F and L&G to 
respond to this provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN04040623Both Mr F and L&G have accepted my Provisional Decision. L&G queried  whether the 
mortgage was still in place which was confirmed  by Mr F and I note that our investigator  has 
since been able to send L&G written confirmation of that. In the light of those responses and 
having reviewed  the complaint I am of the view that my Provisional Decision represents a 
fair outcome to this complaint and for those reasons I uphold  the complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  that Legal  & General Partnership 
Services Limited should:
Work  out how much  Mr F has left to pay on his existing mortgage;
Work  out how much  Mr F would  still owe on his mortgage if the term of his mortgage 
had been to age 65;
Subtract the second  figure from the first figure  and pay Mr F the difference.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0404062