K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) hasnt paid interest  on the funds held in 
his 1-2-3 savings account  over a period of 11 months from October 2017 to 
September 2018. Mr G also says Santander deliberately stopped  sending  him statements, 
so he didnt know interest wasnt being paid.  
background 
In October  2017 Mr G and his wife Mrs G made  a change  to their monthly direct debits. 
Mrs G arranged to cancel  a regular payment to a company  from Mr Gs account. She set up 
a new direct debit with a different firm but the payment was now taken from one of Mr and 
Mrs Gs other accounts.
Its a condition of Mr Gs savings account that to receive some of the benefits, including 
monthly interest, at least two direct debits must be active on the account  each  month. As this 
change only left one direct debit on Mr Gs account, interest  stopped accruing.
Mr G noticed this problem  in October 2018  and informed Santander. He explained that the 
problem was an honest mistake by Mrs G, and asked Santander to pay him the missing 
interest which amounted  to approximately £300.
Santander didnt  agree. It said it hadnt  done anything wrong  and said that it was Mr Gs 
responsibility to monitor  his account and meet its conditions.  It refused to pay the lost 
interest but offered to refund the monthly  account  fees over the period  hed lost out  
amounting to £55. It also offered a further  £45 to make up for giving conflicting information 
when Mr G raised his complaint.
Mr G argued that Santander  shouldve told him there was a problem. He said he hadnt 
received any bank statements for the account  in question  from May 2017 until November 
2018 and felt that Santander had deliberately stopped sending  these  so that he wouldnt 
realise he wasnt receiving interest.
An investigator at our service didnt  uphold the complaint. He said Santander had followed  
the terms and conditions of the bank account  correctly, and that there wasnt any clear 
evidence that Santander had failed  to send Mr G regular statements  during the period in 
question. He felt Santanders goodwill gesture  was fair in the circumstances.
Mr G didnt agree, so the complaint has been  passed to me to review. He accepted that a 
mistake had been made when transferring a direct debit. But Mr G maintained he hadnt 
received statements from Santander for his account  so didnt know  about the mistake.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I can see that Mr G feels strongly about this matter. So I know it will come  as a 
disappointment that Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator,  for similar  
reasons.
Ref: DRN06290792The account  terms and conditions and the key facts document clearly set out that to 
receive interest, two direct debits must leave the account. Im satisfied that only one direct 
debit was leaving Mr Gs account over the period   so Santander wasnt  required to pay 
interest on the savings.
I dont think there's any question that the mistake was a genuine error on Mrs Gs part. But 
although Im sure she didnt mean to stop the account from accruing interest, this doesnt  
make the problem Santanders responsibility. While I can sympathise that Mr Gs loss was 
accidental and unintentional, it isnt fair to expect Santander to pay the interest  when it hasnt 
done anything  to cause the loss. The terms dont require Santander to monitor  Mr Gs 
account or to alert him if its not receiving the full benefits. And its not for Santander to 
question Mr Gs decisions about  how to arrange  his direct debits.
Mr G says he didnt get statements for his account during the period in question. He said if 
he had, then he wouldve  known a mistake had been made  and wouldnt have lost so much 
interest. Ive looked at what both Mr G and Santander have said about this and listened  to 
several recorded phone calls between Mr G and Santander. 
On 24 November 2018 Mr G spoke to Santander  to query why hed not received some 
statements for his account. He said the last statement hed received had been for 
July/August 2018. Santander confirmed to Mr G that his account  was set up to receive 
monthly statements  by post. It also confirmed that the statements were showing on its 
system, and that it had the correct postal  address. Santander  has also provided us with 
copies of the statements in question. So whilst  I have  no reason to doubt that Mr G didnt 
receive all his monthly statements, Ive not seen any evidence  that this was because  of a 
mistake by Santander or that it deliberately withheld Mr Gs statements.
Santander acknowledges that a piece  of mail was returned in October 2018 which led it to 
stop sending further statements until Mr G confirmed his address. But Im satisfied from the 
records Ive seen that by the time this happened, Mr G had already missed  interest  for 
several months. Hes also confirmed that he received his July/August  2018 statement which 
showed interest hadnt been paid. I can also see that Mr G has acknowledged both to us and 
in phone calls with Santander, that he and Mrs G received statements for their other 
Santander accounts. So they couldve noticed  that the direct debit was set up on the wrong 
account from these.  
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied  that Mr G did receive  information  from Santander  for 
some of the period he wasnt receiving interest  and that he wasnt prevented from realising 
there was a problem  because  of a mistake by Santander. 
Santander has offered  to return the account fees Mr G paid  this means he hasnt had to 
pay for the benefits  he wasnt  receiving.  It added  a further £45 to compensate  for how it 
handled the complaint. The root cause of Mr Gs problem wasnt  anything Santander had 
control over  so Im satisfied what its offered is fair in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN06290793my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.  
Anna Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0629079