K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ps complaint concerns the Ongoing Advice Service (OAS) offered by Wesleyan 
Assurance Society. She feels that since investing  with Wesleyan in 2015  and starting the 
service she received very little by way of contact, annual reviews or advice. 
background
Mrs P received investment advice from Wesleyan in November 2015. She invested over 
£200,000 into a bond and an ISA. The OAS was an option that investors could  choose  to 
have, which  gave them annual  reviews  of their investments,  information  and unlimited  
access to an adviser  for an annual  charge  of 0.5%  of the investment  value  per year.
Mrs P cancelled the service in June 2018 and complained to Wesleyan. It didnt  uphold  the 
complaint as it felt it had been made clear to Mrs P that the service was optional,  that shed 
had investment reviews,  and also had the benefit  of access to an adviser at all times. 
The complaint was referred  to this service and our investigator reached a different 
conclusion to Wesleyan.  He felt the complaint should  be upheld. He didnt think  there was 
sufficient evidence that Wesleyan had supplied  the service to Mrs P to a reasonable degree. 
So he recommended  that the fees shed incurred  be refunded, plus interest. 
Wesleyan didnt accept  this. It supplied some additional evidence of contact with Mrs P, 
including some emails and recordings of phone calls. But the investigator  remained of the 
view that there wasnt enough to support  the service having  been properly provided to 
Mrs P. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Mrs P clearly  feels that she hasnt received the sort of service that she was led to believe the 
OAS would be. In support of Wesleyans  position that she has in fact received  the service,  
its provided a rather piecemeal  collection of evidence. 
Theres a copy of a letter confirming an annual review meeting in 2016  (albeit  addressed to 
Mrs Ps husband). There are also screen  prints of appointment bookings  for a potential 2017  
review, recordings of phone calls, also with Mrs Ps husband, making arrangements  for that 
2017 meeting  while  apparently acknowledging that the 2016  review meeting did take place  
at least with Mrs Ps husband. And an email submission from the adviser who carried out the 
2016 review, in the absence of the adviser whod originally given the advice in 2015.
I accept that all of this does suggest  that there may have been some  contact with Mrs P over 
the period in question.  But it doesnt  persuade me that she received the sort of service that I 
think wouldve been implied at the outset. I think that given the cost of the service, 
particularly where  a customer has a significant  amount of money invested  as Mrs P did, its 
reasonable to expect  Wesleyan to be able to produce a more formal  and structured record of 
what was provided. 
Ref: DRN03291482In the absence of a properly documented series of annual reviews,  or other  records  showing 
that meetings  took place with Mrs P, detailing what was discussed and recommended (even  
if was to do nothing), I dont think I can reasonably conclude  that Mrs P more  likely  than not 
received the service as she had expected it to be. 
I accept Wesleyans point  about the OAS feature of ongoing access to advisers, in essence, 
that it was a flat-fee service providing  as much advice as Mrs P needed, if shed asked for it. 
But I dont think that facility counterbalances the lack of any other  real evidence that Mrs P 
received the service she paid for.  
As payment for the OAS was made by way of a deduction from the total value of 
investments held, rather than by way of a fee paid separately, I think  that rather than interest  
being paid on the refund of charges, the return should be based on investment return. Both 
parties have been  made aware  of this slight deviation from the investigators recommended  
redress.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I direct Wesleyan 
Assurance Society to refund the costs of the OAS that Mrs P incurred between  2015 and 
2018, plus a return  on those costs equivalent to that which shed have received on the 
money if it had remained  invested, from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0329148