K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him three packaged bank  
accounts. He paid a monthly  fee for the accounts  which provided several benefits in return.
background
Mr M initially complained to Lloyds about his packaged bank accounts. Lloyds upheld  his 
complaint in full. Thats  to say, it agreed  with Mr Ms complaint.
Lloyds refunded the fees Mr M had paid for all of the packaged  accounts  hed held,  plus 
compensatory interest.  
I havent seen  that Mr M has made any additional complaint points since  bringing  his 
complaint to this service.  He told our adjudicators that he was unsure whether Lloyds had 
paid him the right amount  of compensation.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and Lloyds  had said, and explained that she 
thought Lloyds had done what it needed to. So she didnt think Lloyds needed  to do anything  
else or pay Mr M any further compensation.
Mr M asked  for his complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman. He didnt add any additional 
points.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After reviewing everything,  I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain  why.
As Ive said,  Lloyds upheld Mr Ms complaint before it reached this service. So Lloyds has 
tried to put things right for Mr M.
Without seeing any other reasons for Mr Ms complaint, theres no reason for me to uphold it 
or to tell Lloyds to do anything else.
I can see Lloyds sent Mr M a breakdown of how it calculated the payment it made to him. 
Lloyds has also sent us its calculations, and it looks as though it has refunded all of the 
account fees Mr M paid.
I do note that Lloyds said it couldnt be certain when Mr M took his first packaged account, 
as its records dont  go back far enough. It says it knows  that Mr M held it from at least 
August 2001,  as it can see that his earliest  available bank statements.
In situations like this Lloyds uses the ombudsmans  approach, which is to use the mid-point 
 or the half-way point between when  the account could have been sold,  and the earliest 
point after which it knows the account  was sold. In this case, Lloyds started  selling Mr Ms 
first packaged account, the Select  account,  in January 1997. It has paid the refund of fees 
from April 1999, which is half way between  the date the product was first available, and the 
earliest date Lloyds knows Mr M held it, in August  2001.
Ref: DRN02323692In the absence of any other information  to make me think  otherwise, this is a fair way for 
Lloyds to calculate the refund of Mr Ms Select  account fees.
Lloyds has also refunded all of the account fees for the next two packaged accounts Mr M 
held, which  it does  have  full records for. It has also refunded the other  fees that it says Mr M 
incurred as a direct result of holding the packaged  accounts.
As our adjudicator explained, Lloyds has already put Mr M in the position hed now be in, if it 
hadnt mis-sold the packaged accounts to him. It also explained how it had done  that to Mr M 
in the response  letter  it sent to him. 
Theres nothing further for me to consider in Mr Ms case as his account fees have  been  
refunded, with interest. 
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0232369