K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about the actions of Fresh Insurance Services Group Limited (Fresh) 
after he told it he had rejected his insured vehicle with the finance company. 
background
Mr D took out a motor  insurance policy with Fresh on 14 April 2018. He says he rejected his 
car in November 2018 so didnt have a car to insure,  and informed Fresh.  Although  Fresh  
told him to continue making payments  against  the policy.
In February 2019  Mr D requested quotes from Fresh  to add a new car to the policy.  Fresh 
told Mr D that unless  he added a new car to the policy  it would be cancelled. Mr D accepted  
this and asked  for the cancellation to be backdated  to when he rejected his car in November 
2018 and didnt have a car to insure.
Mr D has explained that his policy wasnt back dated, and an amount remained outstanding  
that he was being chased for. He is also concerned  about a marker  being placed against his 
credit file for not making a payment.  
While this complaint has been  with our service Mr Ds finance provider has provided 
evidence of the date Mr D rejected his car in November 2018. Mr Ds insurer  has considered  
this letter  and is no longer chasing  him for an outstanding balance.
The balance that remained once the insurer amended the cancellation date on the policy 
was also enough  to cover  both the insurers fees and those charged by Fresh for the time 
Mr D had the policy.
Our Investigator  looked  at Mr Ds complaint and thought  the charges made by Fresh  were 
fair. She also explained that she was unable  to look at the amounts charged  by the insurer  
under this complaint.
Mr D disagreed and thinks he is due a refund for his insurance.
As Mr D disagreed his complaint has been  passed to me to form a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fresh acted as the broker  for this policy and I can only look at its actions, and the amounts it 
charged under this complaint. 
Mr D said he told Fresh he had rejected his car in November 2018. So, I have looked 
through the evidence and listened to recording of the calls he had with Fresh  from November  
up until the date his policy was later cancelled.
Between November  2018 and January 2019 Mr D spoke to Fresh over the phone  several  
times to obtain quotes for new cars. From the calls I have  listened to Fresh  were not made  
aware that Mr D no longer  had the insured car until 11 February  2019  when  he called to 
discuss adding a new car to the policy. It was at this point  that Fresh  told Mr D that he would 
have to add a new car within  seven days,  or the policy would be cancelled.
Ref: DRN02821212Considering the above  I dont think Fresh were  aware Mr D no longer had the insured car 
until February 2019, So I cant say it did anything wrong in not requesting  the insurer  cancel  
his policy  sooner.
Since this complaint has been with our service, evidence has been passed to Fresh and the 
insurer to show the date Mr D returned his car. Neither the insurer or Fresh are chasing  Mr D 
for any further payments.
Fresh has explained  that from the amounts Mr D paid for his policy it charged the following:
£25 arrangement fee
£75 cancellation  fee
£18.24 pro-rata  commission for the time Mr Ds policy was in place (this charge 
should have amounted  to £37.36)
These amounts  are around  that I would expect to see charged by the broker  upon the 
cancellation of the policy, although I would also expect Mr D to have been  informed of the 
charges beforehand.
I will go through each  of the charges  in turn.
£25 arrangement fee
Arrangement fees are charged  when a broker sets up a policy  and £25 is a reasonable 
amount for this service. I have listened to a recording of the call When Mr D took out his 
policy Fresh explained  that the amount Mr D was being  asked  to pay for his insurance 
included the £25 fee.
£75 cancellation  fee
During the same call when Mr D took out his policy Fresh explained that if he cancelled  the 
policy after 14 days, he would be charged  £60 cancellation fee. Fresh changed its terms and 
conditions in October 2018 and it wrote to Mr D to explain its cancellation fee had increased 
to £75. 
Mr D has explained that he didnt cancel his policy so this amount should not have been 
charged.
I appreciate what Mr D has said,  although  as he didnt have a car to put on his policy  it was 
his actions that meant the policy could no longer stay in place. Car insurance  is designed to 
cover liability  associated  with owning a vehicle. As Mr D didnt have a vehicle under the 
policy it wasnt Freshs decision not to continue to offer cover under the existing terms, but 
Mr Ds action of not replacing the car that caused the cancellation  to take place.
So, I think Fresh has applied the cancellation charge fairly.
Charge for pro-rata commission
Commission is the amount Fresh  received  from the insurer of Mr Ds policy for arranging the 
insurance with it. Fresh receives  a percentage of the insurance premium  as its commission.  
Ref: DRN02821213This is generally the way most insurers are paid for their services and it is paid from the 
insurer out of the premium the customer pays it.
Fresh has explained  that for the time Mr D was on cover its commission  would have 
amounted to £37.36 but it only received £18.24 and it isnt looking to recover anything 
further.
As the commission amount Fresh has received is less than it would have been entitled to for 
the time Mr D had his policy,  I think it has charged  a fair amount.
I have thought about whether Mr D should  have been charged £60 rather  than £75 as a 
cancellation fee, but even  if I accept this to be the case Fresh  has charged  less than it was 
entitled to as commission, so either way Mr D has still been charged  slightly  less overall  than 
he should have  been.
With the above in mind  I think Fresh has acted fairly. It wasnt aware  Mr D no longer  had his 
car until February 2019, when it took reasonable steps in arranging  for his policy to be 
cancelled. And although  Mr D hasnt received a refund for his insurance  the charges  Fresh 
made were reasonable.
I understand Mr D has also complained about  the amounts his insurer  has charged, which 
will have to be considered  against  that insurer. And a marker being placed on his credit  file, 
but this will have to be taken up with the relevant finance  company.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0282121