K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained that Covea Insurance plc didnt tell it about an incident  it was 
notified of while Mrs P held a car insurance  policy with it. And theyre unhappy that Covea 
recorded the incident on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database.
background
Mrs P bought a car insurance policy  with Covea. Mr P is a named driver under the policy.  In 
April 2018 Covea received a claim  from a third party. It wrote to Mrs P in April to tell her 
about the claim. It said it would instruct an investigator to make  arrangements to interview  
Mrs P. If it didnt  hear from her within a week Covea said it would  look to settle the claim on 
the best terms possible. 
Mrs P said she didnt  receive the letter  although it was sent to the correct address.  In April 
2018 Coveas  investigator attempted to contact Mrs P by phone  but was unable to reach  her. 
In June 2018 the investigator left a card for Mrs P at her address, which Mrs P said she 
received, but didnt  reply to.
Mr P attempted to buy a policy with another insurer to insure  a separate  vehicle in May 
2018. This was when  they found  out that there  was an open claim recorded on CUE by 
Covea  as the new insurer asked Mr P why he didnt disclose it.
Mr P contacted Covea.  Mr and Mrs P complained that they werent  aware of the incident   
and they were unhappy that the incident  had been  recorded without their knowledge. They  
didnt want to provide  a statement to Coveas investigator while  Covea investigated their 
complaint.
In August  2018  Covea replied to their complaint. Covea said it tried to contact Mrs P. As it 
didnt hear from her, it dealt with the third partys claim on a without prejudice basis. Covea 
told Mr and Mrs P that it would help their case if they provided the investigator with a 
statement. This would assist Covea in defending liability.  
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy and asked us to look at things  for them.  They wanted 
Covea to acknowledge that it should have told them it had logged an incident on CUE, 
apologise for failing to tell them, and compensate them for the distress and inconvenience  it 
caused. Mr and Mrs P said Coveas actions led to an increase in the premium  the new 
insurer charged. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend their complaint  should be upheld. She explained  that 
Covea wasnt obliged  to tell Mr and Mrs P that it had recorded  the incident on CUE  but it 
was obliged to tell Mrs P about the claim. As Covea did this, our investigator felt it hadnt  
acted unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree. Mr P said the complaint they asked us to investigate wasnt about 
the liability issue  but the recording of the claim on CUE  without their knowledge.  Mr P says 
as good practice,  Covea  should have told it that it had recorded  the incident on CUE. 
Otherwise he and his wife wouldnt have known   and they didnt even  know  CUE existed. 
Although Mrs P didnt  receive Coveas letter about  the incident,  Mr P says the copy  hes 
seen doesnt mention  that Covea will record the incident. 
Ref: DRN09481032Mr P says he believes he and his wife have a right to know what  is recorded about them on 
CUE. And theyve received advice from the Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  that it 
can make  a Subject  Access Request (SAR) for this information. 
So Mr and Mrs P would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
CUE is a separate company to Covea  and to the Financial  Ombudsman Service.  I cant 
comment on the ICOs advice to Mr and Mrs P  other than to say I havent seen anything  to 
suggest Covea  told Mr and Mrs P that they couldnt  make a SAR to CUE. 
The purpose of CUE  is to identify misrepresentation and prevent  fraud.  I dont think Covea  
was unreasonable because it didnt  tell Mrs P the claim would be recorded  on CUE when it 
received it  or while it was investigating  it. Mrs Ps policy with Covea says that it may share 
information about Mr and Mrs P with fraud  prevention agencies to prevent fraud and comply 
with legal and regulatory requirements.  It lists CUE  as one of the agencies  it may share  
information with. 
Covea should  have notified  Mrs P about  the claim.  It did this. I understand Mrs P says she 
didnt receive Coveas letter  or the investigators  calls. But Im satisfied that Covea made 
several attempts  to contact Mrs P and inform her of the claim.  So I think  it acted  reasonably 
and in line with the policy. 
If Mrs P had received Coveas letter in April 2018, she and Mr P would have been aware that 
there was an incident which Covea was investigating when Mr P applied  for a policy 
elsewhere in May 2018. All insurers  ask questions to establish a customers driving, incident 
and claims history when a customer applies for a policy. This makes  a difference  to the risk 
 and therefore the premium  an insurer charges. 
As Mrs P says,  they werent aware  of the incident  and so they didnt disclose it to Mr Ps 
insurer. But that doesnt mean  Covea  was wrong to record the incident  on CUE. As Covea  
received a claim from a third party, until its settled, the claim remains open.  Covea  is still 
investigating the claim.
Even if Covea had told Mrs P in the letter dated  9 April 2018 that it had recorded the incident 
on CUE, I think  the outcome would have been the same  because  Mrs P says she didnt  
receive the letter.
I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs P were shocked  to find out about  the incident  from Mr Ps 
new insurer. But I cant say that this is down to something Covea did wrong. It  and the 
investigator it instructed   wrote and called  and visited  Mrs Ps home. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Covea has acted reasonably. So Im not asking it to 
do anymore. 
Ref: DRN09481033my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0948103