K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  about service from Phoenix  Life Assurance Limited in relation to a court 
order about her ex-husbands pension.
background
Ms S says she got divorced in the 1990s and there was an agreement that shed get 50% of 
her ex-husbands pension. She had difficulty getting access  to this so in 2017 a new court 
order recorded an undertaking  given  by her ex-husband. This required him to nominate her 
as a beneficiary of 50% of his pension  on his death  pending the transfer to her of the 50% 
she was entitled  to receive. 
The request  to record her as a beneficiary on death  was made in May 2017 but still wasnt 
implemented by early  November 2017.  She said this caused stress and meant she incurred 
additional fees to get the request implemented. It also took until late 2018 to arrange for her 
half of her ex-husbands pension fund to be paid to her. Her solicitors  said that Phoenix 
hadnt dealt with the order in a manner expected of a professional  company they also 
complained about delays  in dealing with their complaint  about  this matter.
Phoenix accepted  there had been  delays in adding Ms S as a beneficiary under her ex-
husbands policy on his death. It said it had taken  time to sort out as it needed  to correspond 
with both Ms S and her ex-husband and take its own legal  advice. It accepted there was 
some confusion about technical  issues as it had suggested a pension  sharing order was 
possible but in the circumstances of this case it wasnt.  
It offered  £350 for the delay and said it would consider any reasonable costs incurred. It 
broke this down as to £200 for delay in dealing with the complaint that was 20 weeks old and 
£150 for trouble and upset. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case and said the following.
In order to make any award I need to show that Phoenix Life has made a mistake.  There  are 
several aspects to this complaint and I will consider each separately. 
These can be broadly  grouped as follows are 
1.Delay due to considering a pension  share,  
2.Delay in registering Ms S as a legacy beneficiary of 50% of the value on her ex-
husbands death. 
3.Delay in arranging draw down so funds could  be paid to Ms S and 
4.Delay in dealing with the complaint about the above. 
Taking each in turn I would comment as follows.
Delay due to considering a pension  share.
Ref: DRN08842492I have seen the court order issued in May 2017.  This had two key parts that are relevant.
Part provided that  
pending  receipt  of the applicant of her 50% share  of the fund value of the Phoenix 
Life Pension arrangement,  the respondent undertakes to nominate the applicant as a 
beneficiary of 50% of any lump sum or benefit payable  on the respondents death
It also provided 
 In default  of a response from Phoenix  Life by 4pm on 19.6.2017 that the pension 
trustees/scheme administrator will and can implement a pension  share  in respect  of 
the Phoenix Life Pension arrangement so as to provide  the applicant  with 50% of the 
fund value, the respondent undertakes that he shall forthwith draw down his benefits 
under the Phoenix Life pension arrangement and forthwith pay a lump sum to the 
applicant so as to provide her with her 50% share of the fund value (net of tax) as at 
the date the benefits are drawn  down.
I have considered the correspondence in detail. It seems that initially  Phoenix  concluded  a 
pension share  was possible and issued papers to enable this to be implemented.  By 
summer 2017 Phoenix concluded a pension share wasnt  possible.  It accepts that this 
caused delay.
Ms Ss solicitors  indicate they didnt  think  a pension share was possible so it isnt clear  why 
the order refers  to a pension  share. The experts  in this case  were the solicitors and counsel  
for both Ms S and her ex-husband. It is only because the order  refers  to the pension share 
that Phoenix needed to spend  time exploring it. In my view the inclusion of the provision in 
the order contributed  to the delay caused by needing to consider this. 
I note that in June  2017  Ms Ss ex husband  wrote to Phoenix  saying  her solicitors didnt 
think a share  was legally possible and therefore if the share cannot  be implemented  he 
needed to draw down. However it then takes  several  further weeks  before Phoenix finally  
conclude the share  isnt possible.
So I agree that there was a delay  after Ms Ss ex-husband indicates he didnt think  it was 
possible and due to the continued  consideration of the pension share. However I dont  
believe the overall delay was solely due to Phoenix. I say that because had the provision not 
been included  in the order the time exploring  the issue wouldve been avoided completely.
I have considered the proposal Phoenix  should pay 80% of the avoidable costs associated  
with the delay from May to August 2018. In the light of what  I have said I think  this is also a 
very fair and reasonable offer by Phoenix. For the reasons  given this is more than I wouldve 
considered had it not indicated its willingness to make such  a payment. 
I have considered the time recording records supplied by the solicitors  and the 
correspondence. Having  done so and taking the broad  brush approach suggested by Ms Ss 
solicitor I think  an award of £250.00 (including  VAT) for avoidable  legal costs  would be fair in 
the circumstances. 
Delay in registering Ms S as a legacy beneficiary of 50% of the value on death
Ref: DRN08842493Ms S says the nomination  of 50% of the value on the death of her ex-husband was finally 
added to the policy on 9 January 2018  which was six months after Phoenix  was given sight 
of the court  order  in May 2017. This is certainly much longer than I mightve expected.
However I have seen the correspondence and note that during this time Phoenix was 
communicating with two sets of solicitors,  Ms S, her ex-husband  and later his attorney. I note 
that in early September Phoenix was asked to put matters on hold by her ex-husbands 
attorney which  delayed this step. I note also that the ill health of Ms Ss ex-husband, ensuing 
queries about  his capacity due to his health  and necessary  enquiries  about the status  of the 
power of attorney caused further delay. After receiving an appropriate signed authority 
Phoenix acts to make notes on the file although  not in the form acceptable to Ms Ss 
solicitors.
I think the enquiries regarding capacity and authority  were reasonable but delayed the 
process but that wasnt Phoenixs fault.  
It is clear that Phoenix needed express authority from Ms Ss ex-husband to implement this 
step. Ms Ss solicitors questioned the suggestion Phoenix never received the letter sent by 
Ms Ss ex-husband in May 2017 confirming  the nomination of Ms S for 50% of benefits. It 
said Ms Ss ex-husband confirmed it was sent and referred to it in an email  to Ms S. The 
implication is that if received it couldve taken action sooner than it did.
However just because a letter is sent, doesnt  prove it was received.  Letters  do go missing  in 
the post. It isnt possible to be certain  what actually happened. It seems  very likely the letter  
was sent, but based on the correspondence;  I dont think Phoenix received it. I say that 
because the pattern of correspondence from Phoenix doesnt suggest  this and the letter  isnt 
acknowledged or referred to by Phoenix. I note also that none  of Ms S or her ex-husband or 
their respective solicitors  chased confirmation  of receipt. So on balance  I dont think  it was 
received at that time.
While Ms Ss solicitor later provided an unsigned  copy of the original letter  I think it was 
reasonable for Phoenix to request  a signed  copy or other signed confirmation before 
proceeding. So I dont think any delay before receipt of the appropriate authority was 
Phoenixs fault.
I further note that even  in the absence  of a formal entry  on the file the solicitors for Ms S 
made very clear that a distribution not in accordance  with the Court  Order would be 
facilitating a contempt of court. Phoenix confirmed  in writing that it wouldnt make  a payment 
without the consent of Ms S. So while an entry in a form acceptable to Ms Ss adviser may 
not have been made  until early 2018  it was clear in the autumn of 2017 that Phoenix would 
act in the light of the order and notes were  made  on the file. This shouldve  provided much 
reassurance.
I note that the delays  due to the intervention  of the attorney and putting matters on hold 
meant it took longer for Phoenix to get the written confirmation it needed from Ms Ss ex-
husband/his representative. So I dont think there was any unreasonable delay by Phoenix 
during this time.
Phoenix accepts that during this time it raised queries about  authority which  it didnt need to. 
However I note these queries were in June  2017  and at that time Phoenix still didnt have 
express written authority from the ex-husband as it hadnt received  the letter he sent in May.  
I dont think these exchanges didnt make a material difference  to any delay as the delay 
Ref: DRN08842494was due to the absence  of signed  consent  and later delay imposed by the power of attorney 
both in relation  to this and the later draw down.
Delay in arranging draw  down so funds could  be paid to Ms S.
From the outset it is clear  that Ms Ss ex-husband wished to avoid drawing  down his 
benefits. He asked whether he had any other options and it seems  this is why he hoped a 
pension share  might  be possible. I have considered the correspondence  between Phoenix 
and Ms Ss solicitors, the person appointed as Power of Attorney for her exhusband  and 
her ex-husbands solicitors. 
Ms Ss solicitors  complain  that Phoenix said they wouldnt deal directly  with them having 
done so to date.  I have  commented on the situation  in June 2017. I also note that they said 
they couldnt send policy details in autumn  2018, which is different to saying they cannot 
deal. I note that even though they refused  to send details direct they sent them  to Ms Ss ex-
husbands solicitors  with a suggestion  they might  pass them on. So it is clear they were 
attempting to help by providing  the information  indirectly. 
I was directed to a letter sent by the ex-husband at the end of July 2017.  Ive seen that letter 
and the one sent to Ms S the following day. While  Ms Ss ex-husband tells Phoenix he is 
looking for the quickest  solution and confirms to Ms S he will do anything to sort this he 
hadnt submitted  the needed forms. While the letter  indicated his intention it didnt enable  
Phoenix to implement it. I can see a retirement  pack to enable  this was issued  soon after but 
not returned or completed for many months.  In fact the retirement forms were issued several 
times and queries from all parties dealt with. The signed claim form was not returned until 
November 2018.  
Ms Ss solicitors  also refer to an email sent to them in March  2018 by her ex-husbands 
solicitors saying a claim form was still awaited. It also referred  to a letter from Phoenix in 
April 2018 regarding options. Ms Ss solicitors say Phoenix should have proceeded as 
instructed in July 2017. I have responded re the July 2017 letter and I can see from the 
correspondence that Phoenix  had sent another retirement option pack to the attorney in 
February and regular correspondence continued  about discussing the options and satisfying 
identity requirements  that are common in these situations. So again I dont think  there was 
unreasonable delay.
Ms Ss solicitors  further suggest  that it was told in August  2018  that claim forms would be 
sent out despite being told they had been  issued in May 2018. I can see from the 
correspondence that further forms were  reissued in late May and sent on 1 June 2018 
directly to the power of attorney and were chased by Phoenix  in early July and again in 
August 2018 stating  it needed the cash in lump sum form. So I dont agree this is evidence 
of delay.
Phoenix needed to complete several steps before drawdown. It needed to issue  and discuss 
options to comply with guidance and then issue final claim forms. All steps needed to be 
completed before drawdown could be implemented. In addition identity checks  were needed. 
Simple letters of instructions were not sufficient in isolation. So while  frustrating these steps 
couldnt be avoided.  I can see Phoenix  issued retirement packs  three  times and requested a 
call to discuss options as required  by regulator.  This call back  wasnt  made  until spring 2018. 
While claim forms were then issued  several times these also were chased but not returned 
until later in 2018. I understand the parties found this frustrating but in the absence  of replies 
and instructions in the appropriate form Phoenix couldnt proceed.
Ref: DRN08842495So I dont  think Phoenix caused any unreasonable delay that meant the draw  down wasnt 
implemented until late 2018.
Refusing to provide policy information  after 17 months of dealing
Ms S said that after corresponding  with her legal representative for many  months  Phoenix  
then said it had no authority to disclose policy information to them. She said this was 
something that shouldve been  sorted  at the outset as it should always  have been  clear that 
some correspondence  would be needed with her legal representatives. I have already 
commented on this and dont think any unreasonable  delay was caused and note that 
Phoenix endeavoured to provide policy information by sending  it to its clients solicitors with 
the suggestion it was passed on. 
Delay in dealing with the complaint about the above
Phoenix Life has accepted that it took longer than it shouldve in dealing  with the complaint. I 
can understand that this mustve been frustrating and inconvenient for Ms S. 
In my view the overall impact of the delay in dealing with this complaint was moderate. I say 
that because the delay  in dealing with the complaint  didnt impact the process  of dealing with 
the substantive issues  of drawing benefits  and notifying Ms Ss interest  on death. I think  the 
offer made by Phoenix falls within  the range of award that I consider fair and reasonable  in 
these circumstances.
Claim for legal costs for Phoenixs default
Ms Ss solicitor  said that its involvement shouldve  been  limited  to obtaining the court  order 
and a watching brief. It said Phoenix shouldve  implemented  it by liaising with Ms Ss ex-
husband, if there had been a default by her ex-husband it should requested further directions 
from the Court and made sure all reasonable steps were taken to ensure  the money was 
paid to Ms S within a reasonable timescale. 
Her solicitors didnt think there would be any evidence that Phoenix had carried  out any of its 
duties with reasonable speed or due diligence and their default meant she needed  her legal 
representatives to be involved. It felt her legal costs should be taken into account and felt 
that the substantial part of the costs had been incurred as a result of Phoenixs  default.
But I dont agree, it wasnt the responsibility of Phoenix to ensure Ms Ss ex-husband 
complied with his undertaking to the court that was a matter for the Court and Ms S as 
Phoenix wasnt a party  to the Court  proceedings. 
Having reviewed the correspondence in detail I am not satisfied there is any reasonable 
evidence of undue delay by Phoenix  (other than in respect of the pension  share  I have 
already considered). I note it needed to engage  with many parties. From my review  it 
appears that it dealt  with all correspondence  within reasonable timescales. I note however 
that there  was delay  caused by a lack of response  and completion of necessary forms by 
other parties. As Phoenix pointed out it couldnt proceed with any payments without direct  
authority and duly completed  forms from Ms Ss ex-husband and/or his attorney. It also 
needed to complete normal regulatory and identity checks and additional checks due to the 
involvement of a power of attorney. I think all of these were reasonable and what  I would 
expect to see in the process of arranging for the payment  of benefits.
Ref: DRN08842496For the reasons  given  I am not therefore proposing to make any award  for further  legal 
costs.
Claim for interest.
Ms S claims interest on the money  paid from her ex-husbands pension. She accepted there  
wouldve been some  time for processing after the court order was received but felt the 
payment shouldve been done within six months, and therefore limited  her claim to half the 
period between 30th May 2017 and 5th December 2018.
But I dont agree. I have  already concluded that Phoenix didnt cause any further 
unreasonable delay. So I cannot make such an award.
Further even  if I am wrong  in that conclusion there is no evidence of loss. I dont have details 
of the underlying investments in the policy but it is possible that the investment value paid 
out was higher than it wouldve been  in mid-2017 because it remained invested  during that 
time.
Costs associated with making a complaint  to this service
I have considered the suggestion that I should make an award for Ms Ss legal costs for 
bringing this complaint. 
This service is set up to allow consumers  to bring  complaints  without the need for any 
representation. It wouldnt normally make an award  for such  costs. This complains isnt 
legally complicated  as it is essentially about delay.  I have  reviewed  all of the correspondence 
between the parties  and in my view that has provided sufficient  information  to enable me to 
evaluate the complaint and reach  my conclusion. 
I am proposing to uphold only a part of this complaint in relation to the initial pension share 
delay and for the delay in dealing with the complaint. I have  proposed awards for costs and 
distress and inconvenience for these. Apart  from that I have not proposed  to uphold the rest 
of the complaint. So as I have not proposed  to uphold any further  aspect of the complaint I 
cant propose to make  a further award for any legal costs incurred by Ms S in bringing this 
complaint.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
I have considered whether to make a further  award of distress  and inconvenience. In 
particular Ms S complains  she was subjected to extra stress due to the delay and the 
possibility of her ex-husbands death. I can understand  that wouldve been concerning but I 
have already considered the reasons for that delay  and havent concluded Phoenix caused  
any unreasonable delay. So for that reason I cannot  propose a further award.
Finally I would comment that Ms Ss solicitors made many very detailed points in their 
submissions I have  considered each  of these and I am satisfied  that I have considered them  
in reaching my proposed view so there is no need to go through each in detail.  
I proposed to uphold  this complaint in part and direct that Phoenix Life Assurance  Limited  
should pay Ms S
Ref: DRN088424971.£350 for delay,  distress and inconvenience and 
2.£250.00 (including VAT) in respect of the Ms Ss avoidable legal costs plus interest  at 
the rate of 8% per annum simple  from the date of payment of the fees by Ms S to the 
date of actual  payment  to her.
In response to my provisional decision both parties  replied  as follows:-
Phoenix said it had no further comments to make.
Ms S said she didnt agree with the conclusion re pension sharing and the court  order.  She 
said that it was due to Phoenix indicating to her ex-husband that a pension  share  could be 
possible that it was raised. She said her ex-husband was a litigant in person. In fact a 
pension share  wasnt  possible  because the divorce  commenced before the law was in place.  
She felt it was because  Phoenix advised  her ex husband that the delay happened and 
Phoenix shouldnt  have been giving  legal advice regarding the issue.
She also said there had been an offer of 80% of the avoidable costs due the delay  from May 
2018. The total cost for that period was £915  and 80% of this is £732 plus VAT. She couldnt  
see how an award of £250 would be fair. The whole debacle was due to wrong information 
from Phoenix.
She wanted the award to be reconsidered and a lump sum rather  than interest which  would 
need to be calculated.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have not changed my mind. I say that because.
I note Ms Ss comments  about the reason time was taken to consider a pension share. But I 
dont agree for the reasons already given in my provisional decision.  Her advisers were clear 
such an award wasnt ever possible but it was still included in the court order  which then 
meant Phoenix spent  time reaching that conclusion for itself.
With respect to the amount of the award  the final view issued by the investigator concluded 
that the period of delay  caused by Phoenix  was from May to August 2017 only and not for 
the whole  period of delay. It suggested  a payment of 80% of the avoidable costs in that 
period. Ms S suggested a broad brush approach was taken to this figure  rather  than suffer  
the cost of a legal draftsman. As I indicated  in my provisional decision I reviewed the 
correspondence alongside the time recording records  submitted to broadly identify only the 
avoidable costs  due to the delay in the period from May to August only.  Having reviewed 
these again and having taken the broad brush approach suggested by Ms S I remain  of the 
view that an award of £250  including VAT is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
It is customary for this service to make an award  plus interest.  This is because there can be 
delays in payment  and it ensures Ms S doesnt  suffer due to any delay. For that reason  I 
dont think it is appropriate to change the award  to a fixed amount. 
Ref: DRN08842498my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and direct that Phoenix Life Assurance  Limited  should  pay Ms 
S
1.£350 for delay,  distress and inconvenience and 
2.£250 (including VAT) in respect  of the Ms Ss avoidable legal costs  plus interest at 
the rate of 8% per annum simple  from the date of payment of the fees by Ms S to the 
date of actual  payment  to her.
Following my Final Decision Phoenix Life Assurance Limited must pay the total 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which Ms S accepts  my final decision. If it pays 
later than this it must also pay further  interest on the compensation from the date of the final 
decision until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct  income  tax from the interest, Phoenix Life 
Assurance Limited must send a tax deduction  certificate with the payment so that Ms S can 
reclaim the tax if she is able to.
When I issue my final decision  Ms S should  refer back to Phoenix Life Assurance Limited if 
she is unsure of the approach it has taken  and both parties should contact HM Revenue  & 
Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this portion of the 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0884249