K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Quilter  Mortgage Planning Limited, previously Intrinsic Mortgage
Planning Ltd, mis-sold him an income protection policy. Mr Ss daughter,  Miss S, is helping
him to bring his complaint.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
11 October 2019, an extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
So, I wont repeat  that information here.  
In my provisional decision,  I said I didnt think that there is sufficient evidence to enable me 
to conclude safely that Intrinsic misled  Mr S in relation to what  he should  tell the insurer 
about his medical  history.  I said that I didnt intend  to uphold the complaint. 
Mr S said that he was very disappointed by my provisional decision and asked that I 
reconsider it. He said that he agreed  with the adjudicators view that Intrinsic should  pay 
Mr S the amount he owes  to the insurer  for the claim it paid before it cancelled  his policy.  
Mr S said that hed paid his premiums every month in the hope that hed never  have to make 
a claim but he suffered  from ill health and had to rely on it, only to be told that hes not 
covered and needs to repay  £970.  He said that hes been off work  for a long time and cant 
afford to repay what the insurer says he owes. Mr S says that Intrinsic has dishonest selling 
practices and that he was misled due to the language barrier. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate that Mr S found my provisional decision disappointing. But having looked at 
everything again, I remain of the view that there isnt sufficient evidence to conclude that 
Intrinsic misled Mr S. The point-of-sale documentation doesnt support Mr Ss recollection of 
what happened. And I think its important to note that Mr S is recalling events that took place 
several years ago and that would have had no particular  significance for him at the time. 
I dont agree that there was a language  barrier  as Mr S and the adviser shared the same first 
language.
Im very sorry that Mr S suffered ill health and I dont doubt that this is worrying for him. But 
Im afraid I remain of the view that I cant safely conclude that Intrinsic misled  him. There  are 
no grounds on which to direct Intrinsic to pay Mr S the sum he owes  to the insurer.   
If the insurer presses for repayment  Mr S could ask it to agree a repayment  plan,  given his 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN06532412my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above,  my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Mr Ss complaint.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN06532413extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complains that Quilter  Mortgage Planning Limited, previously Intrinsic Mortgage  
Planning Ltd, mis-sold him an income  protection policy.  Mr Ss daughter, Miss S, is helping 
him to bring his complaint.
Mr Ss complaint against the insurer has been dealt with separately.
background
In September  2014, Intrinsic gave Mr S financial advice and, amongst other things, 
recommended an income protection  policy with an insurer. The policy  is designed to provide 
a monthly income  if Mr S is too ill to work. I understand that Mr S and the adviser  completed  
the insurers application form. The policy started in September  2014.
In February 2016,  Mr S made a claim against  his policy,  as he couldnt  work because of pain 
in his knees and elbow. The insurer paid that claim
In 2018, Mr S made another claim  against his policy. The insurer declined Mr Ss claim and 
cancelled his policy from the outset. It said that Mr S hadnt disclosed relevant  medical  
information. The insurer refunded the premiums Mr S had paid but offset  that against the 
larger amount it had paid to him as part of his previous claim. Mr S owes the insurer  £969.14.
In August 2018, Mr S returned to work  part-time, before he felt ready to do so, as he was 
having difficulties  paying his rent and bills. I understand that he returned to work full-time in 
April 2019.
Mr S says that when  Intrinsic gave him the advice, his English wasnt  good, so he relied on 
the adviser to both translate and advise. He says that the adviser asked him several health 
questions about  the previous five years. Mr S says that the adviser encouraged him to 
prioritise the most recent events, as she thought that it wasnt easy  to remember five years 
medical history. He says that the adviser told him that if he couldnt  recall answers he should 
move on, as the insurer would check his medical history  and take the necessary information 
from Mr Ss medical records.
Mr S says that Intrinsic  is responsible for the insurers refusal of his claim and cancellation  
of his policy. He wants Intrinsic to admit liability for negligent advice.
One of our investigators looked  at what had happened. She thought  that Intrinsic  had
mis-sold the policy to Mr S. The investigator said that she couldnt  see any evidence to 
show what was discussed with or translated for Mr S during the sale of the policy. The 
investigator said it didnt  appear that Intrinsic gave Mr S anything in his first language, so 
that he could confirm it was accurate. She thought  that what Mr S said was plausible. The 
investigator said that it seems that Mr S didnt fully understand the process and how 
important it was to provide accurate  information on the application form, which should have 
been made clear  when  the policy was sold.
The investigator said that its unlikely that Mr S wouldve been able to get this type of cover  
if he had disclosed his medical history. She said that to put matters right,  Intrinsic  should 
pay Mr S the amount the insurer asked  Mr S to repay.
Ref: DRN06532414Miss S, on Mr Ss behalf  wanted to know if Mr S could claim from Intrinsic  the amount  that 
the insurer would have paid if it hadnt cancelled the policy. The investigator  explained  that 
she couldnt fairly ask Intrinsic to pay Mr Ss claim under the policy, as its unlikely that 
Mr S wouldve  got cover  if hed disclosed the true position.
Intrinsic didnt agree with the investigator. It said that the investigator had relied solely  on 
what Mr S said and disregarded its evidence. Intrinsic said that the adviser and Mr S shared 
the same  first language  and the adviser followed a prescribed  sales  process. So, Mr S was 
able to make  an informed  choice. It said that Mr S was aware of the terms of the policy and 
it was his responsibility to disclose information.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The central issue here is whether Intrinsic misled  Mr S about  the medical information he 
was required to disclose to the insurer. The starting point is the point-of-sale documentation  
from 2014. Those documents are contemporaneous, so they should  reflect  what was said 
and agreed at the time. Theyre not foolproof, of course; its always possible that information 
may be recorded incorrectly or omitted.  But its right to give those documents  some weight.
The insurers  application  form shows that the adviser completed all or some of it for Mr S. 
The insurer  asked detailed questions about Mr Ss medical history,  including the following:
In the last 5 years have  you had any medical  attention at a hospital  or required any 
investigations, scans or tests (including blood  tests), in connection with any medical 
condition which you have  not told us about already  in this application form?
In response to that question, Mr S disclosed  broken legs. In fact, Mr S should have disclosed
several other  matters  about his health  in the previous five years.
Mr S says that the adviser  encouraged him to prioritise  the most recent events, as she 
thought that it wasnt easy to remember five years medical history. He says that the adviser 
told him that if he couldnt recall answers he should  move on, as the insurer would check  
his medical history and take the necessary information from Mr Ss medical records.
Intrinsic hasnt been able provided  a statement from the adviser.  Im not sure how useful 
that would  be in any event, at this distance  in time.  Intrinsic  relies on the documentation  it 
provided.
Where things are in dispute, I make my findings on what I think  is most likely to be the 
case. I take into account the available evidence and the wider  surrounding circumstances.
Considering everything, I dont think that theres sufficient evidence to enable  me to 
conclude safely that Intrinsic misled Mr S in relation to what he should tell the insurer 
about his medical  history.  Mr S is recalling events that took place several years before. 
Hed have no reason to find what was said remarkable at the time, so theres no particular 
reason he would have remembered it accurately several years  later.
Ref: DRN06532415In addition,  the point  of sale documentation shows that the adviser asked  Mr S many 
questions about  his medical history. I think it would be unusual for an adviser to guide Mr S 
in the way he recalls,  particularly  when she recorded some information  about his health in 
the last five years. The more unusual an event, the more evidence is required to show that 
it happened. I dont  think that theres  anything to support Mr Ss recollection of what  was 
said. On balance, I think  its more likely than not that the adviser  told Mr S of the 
importance of providing accurate information, as thats mentioned several times in the 
documentation.
I note that Mr S says that he had difficulty with English at the time. But the adviser and he 
shared the same first language. The adviser recorded the information in English. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that Mr S asked for a translation of the documents.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont propose  to direct
Intrinsic to do anything further.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  intend to uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN0653241