K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr P bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint because:
 Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online  credit  card application process where  
PPI wouldve been offered  to Mr P. This shows that he wouldve had to choose 
whether he wanted PPI or not before he could continue with his application. Eggs  
record of the application  data shows that Mr P selected the PPI. So I think Egg made 
him aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to take it.
 Egg didnt recommend the policy to Mr P so it didnt have to check if he needed  it or 
whether it was suitable for him. Mr P had to decide  that for himself.  As Mr P chose to 
take the PPI, I think he wanted to protect his repayments against illness and 
unemployment.
 Its possible the information Egg gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Mr P wouldve been  affected  by any of the main  things 
the policy didnt  cover. The policy was also competitively priced  and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ps comments but these dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0270865