K820x#14complaint
Mr T and Mrs Y (the policyholders) say UIA (Insurance) Limited  didnt fairly  settle  a claim 
they made on their home insurance policy.
background
The policyholders called  UIA in December 2017 to report a problem with their laptop 
computer. They wanted to make a claim  on their home insurance  policy.
UIA accepted the claim. It sought advice from X, a specialist inspection  and replacement 
validation service. X provided a report on the condition of the policyholders  laptop.  It thought  
it could be fixed at a cost of around  £580 plus VAT. But the initial  repairs  failed and the 
further work  required was estimated at an additional £500 plus VAT.
UIA thought that given the time it had already  taken  to get the laptop put right and the further 
delay that would be entailed in getting more replacement parts,  it would be fair to respond  
positively to the policyholders  request for a cash  settlement. X assessed the cost of a like 
for like replacement for the laptop. A payment of £2,699 was issued  to the policyholders.
The policyholders have concerns about  what happened. For example  they think the total 
settlement shouldve been for about £5,100.  They also say there were long delays in the 
process and problems with the return of their property.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. The policyholders disagreed and so their case has 
come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Mr T and Mrs Ys complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
My starting point is to understand  the big difference between both parties  about  what the 
value of the cash settlement shouldve been.  The policyholders  helpfully provided  a 
breakdown of how they arrived at a figure of around £5,100.  This comprised  the cost of the 
lap top theyd  researched (£4,469); associated  insurance cover  (£329); some replacement 
software (£230); and a mouse (£79).
So, by far the most significant  difference  was between  the amount the policyholders thought  
they should receive for a replacement laptop of £4,469 and the cash settlement paid by UIA 
of £2,699.
Mr T and Mrs Y have sent us a picture of the laptop  they wanted  with the price. Theres very 
little information  about the model  selected.  On the other hand,  UIA relied on the advice of X, 
a specialist validation  service which reviewed the policyholders old lap top and supplied  a 
detailed technical  specification for a like for like alternative. Based on whats  been provided, I 
place more weight  on the expert opinion.
Ref: DRN02887412The policyholders want to be reimbursed for the cost of buying a support and insurance 
product for their new laptop.  This cost isnt something covered  by their home insurance 
policy. If its something they had in place for their old laptop, then they should discuss  with 
that provider what, if any, of their former policy might be transferrable  to their new laptop or 
whether a partial refund of the premium  might be appropriate.
Mr T and Mrs Y have told us that their old laptop  had software  on it which  they want  put on 
their new laptop. They  didnt want to buy it again  and I can understand that. UIA relied on 
advice from X that the policyholders should  be able to liaise with the relevant companies to 
be able to transfer the software to their new laptop.
When making a claim the onus is on the policyholder to substantiate the loss. UIA are 
reluctant to pay for software that should still be available to the policyholders.  But if Mr T and 
Mrs Y can ultimately demonstrate a loss, showing that after complying with the requirements 
of the relevant third party companies,  these  cant or wont transfer their old software to their 
new laptop; then the policyholders might have  a claim. In this case  they should approach 
UIA with the evidence  theyve gathered and it will then consider any claim according  to the 
terms and conditions of their policy.
The policyholders have claimed for a replacement mouse. Theyve told us this was included 
with the laptop when  it was sent to X for inspection. As the investigator  said,  the initial  report 
from X, which details the items it received, doesnt mention a mouse.
While the final response letter  from UIA sent in May 2018, does mention that X offered to 
replace the mouse, this appears to be a misunderstanding. X offered to include a basic,  
optical, wired mouse when Mr T and Mrs Y complained about their accessories not being 
returned. But it restated  that it had never received  their mouse.
Where there are conflicting versions  of events, I have to decide on the balance  of 
probabilities whats  most  likely to be the case. Here  I think the report  X provided about  the 
condition of the policyholders laptop  is important because it detailed what accessories had 
been received.  It didnt  list a mouse.  Xs report was produced in February 2018 and so its 
the earliest relevant record available. So I give this weight. In these circumstances it wouldnt 
be fair for me to require  UIA to replace the mouse.
The policyholders were frustrated that it took X several months  to return their hard disk, case  
and charger, following  inspection. While  I appreciate what theyve said,  I think  its important 
to note that by settling  their claim UIA had indemnified them for their loss. And its not 
unusual for an insurer  to retain possessions in these circumstances where there might be a 
salvage value  or further investigations required.
I do note that in April 2018 UIA had agreed to return the policyholders  hard drive at no cost.  
But crucially  I can also see there was continued  debate about how the claim should  be fairly 
concluded even  after payment had been  made. One option UIA kept on the table was a 
repair to the policyholders old laptop. There was also some  discussion about what  software  
was actually on the laptop and X helping to get access to this.
So I think these material issues meant their hard disk and accessories werent returned as 
soon as they would otherwise have been. But the policyholders had an interest in this 
potential activity. And I dont think it would be reasonable  for me to ask UIA to compensate  
Mr T and Mrs V for this delay.
Ref: DRN02887413A further  problem reported by Mr T and Mrs Y was the charger thats  been  returned to them 
wasnt their property. On the other hand X asserted that all the policyholders  property was 
kept together at all times.  Ive not seen any telling evidence that would allow me to 
reasonably direct UIA to provide the policyholders with a new replacement.
Ive thought about the policyholders  concerns in terms of the delays they experienced from 
the point they made their claim. X says it sent a prepaid label to Mr T and Mrs Y on 5 
December 2018  so they could send in the laptop  and accessories. But it didnt receive these  
until 31 January 2018.  Its also provided system  notes which it says show  it left messages 
with the policyholders  on three separate occasions  to chase delivery of the laptop.
Once the laptop was received, X contacted UIA at the beginning of February  2018  to let it 
know their initial thoughts  that the laptop was repairable and the likely cost of the repairs. 
There was initially some confusion at UIA, as it told X to place the repairs on hold. From  the 
contact notes, it appears it had mistakenly  thought their policy  had been cancelled.  This 
delayed further  work  on the computer until later that month.
There seems  to have been  a further  delay following the unsuccessful  attempt  by X to repair 
the laptop and submission  of its report in early March 2018. This indicated  the need  for more 
extensive works and the order of more parts. It was only when the policyholders chased 
progress in April 2018 that things started to move  again.
So, theres no doubt that Mr T and Mrs Ys claim took longer to bring to a close than it 
shouldve. Its not clear what the cause of the early delay was. But there were certainly some 
issues with UIAs handling  over the whole period. That said,  I can also see that it has 
recognised these problems and tried to put things right in the way it treated the 
policyholders.
For example UIA waived  the £100 excess on Mr T and Mrs Ys policy.  And it responded  to 
their request  for a cash settlement positively, when it couldve tried to carry out repairs. So, I 
dont think it would be fair for me to require UIA to compensate the policyholders for the 
delays they experienced, more than it has already.
The policyholders have told me that UIA offered them an additional £300 to bring their claim 
to a close, after it had already issued  the payment for £2,699.  UIA told us that it didnt think 
its agent wouldve  entered into this sort of conversation.
I dont think this point  has a significant bearing on the outcome of this case  now.  Thats 
because: Mr T has told us he refused the payment at the time; UIAs final response letter 
sets out its final position  in respect of the policyholders claim and complaint; and this 
decision has considered  all of the circumstances and issues raised  in their case. 
Ive concluded  that UIA dont need to do anything further in relation to Mr Y and Mrs Ys 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Ref: DRN02887414Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0288741