K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains about a car that was supplied to her under a hire agreement  with 
Lex Autolease Limited, trading as Land  Rover Contract Hire.
background 
A new car was supplied  to Miss R under a hire agreement with Lex Autolease that she 
signed in July 2015. The agreement was for four years and included an annual  mileage limit 
of 8,000 miles. She says that the cars diesel particulate filter has been  replaced three times 
under warranty but the warranty has expired and the filter needs to be replaced again.  She 
complained to the dealer  and then to Lex Autolease but she wasnt satisfied with Lex 
Autoleases response  so she complained  to this service. 
She says that the car was mis-sold  to her because this is a common  issue with this type of 
car, she should have  been notified  of it before  the car was supplied  to her and the car is not 
suitable for her style of driving. She says that Lex Autolease should pay for the filter to be 
replaced and compensate  her for a years worth of lease  payments.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. He concluded 
that a fair outcome  was for the dealer to pay for the repairs to the diesel particulate filter and 
the regeneration that Miss R had paid for. But as shes had some use of the car, his opinion  
was that it was not reasonable to return payments made as the car had continued to be 
driven in a manner  that likely contributed  to the fault.  
Both Miss R and Lex Autolease have asked for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. Miss R says, in summary, that:
shes paid the lease costs and the upfront charge and took out the agreement with a 
view to use and enjoy  the car but the issues have restricted her use of it and shell only 
use the car for about 20,000 miles when 32,000 miles are allowed under the agreement;
shes had to use the train and taxis to get around  despite paying a substantial  fee each 
month for a car that wasnt available to her;
shes dedicated  a significant  amount of time to dealing with the issues with the car;
shes not looking  to claim the total cost of the lease but just the portion thats unused 
due to the constant issues with the car;
shes been  unable to find a cheaper quote  for the repairs;
she had the diesel particulate  filter cleaned but cant make long distance journeys in the 
car, it still had a loss of power  on the motorway and shes only able to drive it at 50-60 
miles per hour;  and
the cars  current  mileage is more than 24,000 miles, she extended the agreement for a 
couple of months as she was unable to afford a deposit for a new car and she had the 
car repaired  again in November 2019.
Lex Autolease says, in summary and amongst other things, that: 
diesel  particulate filters have been a legal requirement in all diesel vehicles since  2009 
and its reasonable  to expect a consumer to have considered  fuel type suitability in 
advance of selecting a make  or model of car;
Miss R approached  the dealer (which at the time dealt predominantly  in diesel vehicles)  
and was provided with the car she requested;
Ref: DRN05243832it hasnt seen  any evidence that Lex Autolease (or the dealer) mis-led Miss R, gave  poor 
advice or was even  asked for advice;
contrary to what the final response  letter may imply, a mileage  allowance  of 8,000 per 
year does not mean the car is inherently  unsuitable as the diesel particulate filters 
ability to regenerate  can be impacted  by a number of factors,  including journey length, 
engine temperature, engine  RPM and speed so unless it was explicitly told something 
that would indicate  the consumer was only going to use the car for short  start-stop 
journeys, or in slow moving traffic, it would have had no reasonable way to know the car 
may have been unsuitable; and 
regeneration of the diesel particulate filter should  happen automatically through  normal  
use of the car but if the consumer is predominantly doing short-start stop journeys this 
can impact the cars ability to regenerate on its own and require the operator to assist it 
with the occasional longer journey - so no one would  have been able to tell Miss R that 
she would need  to do extra journeys unless it was made  aware of the specific driving 
she intended  to do over that 8,000 miles each year.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss R 
and to Lex Autolease  in May 2020. In my provisional  decision I said as follows:
I wouldnt  normally consider that an agreement was mis-sold  in the circumstances that 
Miss R has described. But Lex Autolease said in an e-mail to Miss R in December 2018:
The issue with the DPF filter is due to the low mileage set for the vehicle. We would 
expect a diesel vehicle to do more miles. Did the dealership not make you aware  of 
this at the time of the sale? It is a common fault and I can understand your 
frustrations but as your vehicle is only set for 8000  miles  per annum, this is why the 
DPF filter keeps failing.
Lex Autolease says that that statement isnt correct  but I can understand the 
expectation that it has created for Miss R. Miss R has been  able to use the car to drive 
more than 24,000 miles  since  it was supplied to her in July 2015 and, whilst she hasnt 
used it for the full mileage allowance provided  for in the agreement, Im not persuaded 
that that shows that she hasnt been  able to drive the car as much  as she wanted.  
The agreement was for four years but Miss R chose to extend it. Im not persuaded 
that its likely  that she would have chosen to keep the car if there were significant  
issues with it that substantially affected  her use of it.
Miss R signed the hire agreement and immediately above her signature it said:
This is a Hire Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. Sign it 
only if you want to be legally bound  by its terms.
The agreed annual  contract mileage of 8,000  miles was clearly set out in the 
agreement. Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence to show  that the 
agreement was mis-sold to Miss R, that the diesel particulate filter is faulty or that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her. So I dont consider that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require the car to be repaired or for Lex 
Autolease to refund to Miss R any of the monthly  payments that shes made under the 
agreement.
Ref: DRN05243833Miss R had paid £390 for the diesel  particulate filter to be cleaned before the 
adjudicator made his recommendation   and shes provided a copy of the invoice for 
that work.  She also paid £390  in November 2019 for the diesel particulate filter to be 
cleaned again.  
Because of the statement made  to Miss R by Lex Autolease in December 2018, I 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances  for it to refund to 
Miss R those two charges. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to require it to take any other  action in response to Miss Rs complaint.
So, subject to any further representations by Miss R or Lex Autolease, my provisional  
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part.
Neither Miss R nor Lex Autolease has accepted my provisional decision. Lex Autolease says 
that an award of £780 for an element of poor customer service in its e-mail to Miss R which  
contained incorrect information appears to be considerably excessive and not proportionate 
given that the satisfactory quality and mis-selling elements  of the complaint werent  upheld.
Miss R has responded  in detail and says, in summary and amongst other things, that:
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose and was misrepresented  to her;
the manufacturer tells dealers that if customers are using the car for low mileage this 
issue will occur  and that they should  choose  a petrol  engine as an alternative  and 
shes provided an extract from a guidance note from the manufacturer;
that wasnt communicated  to her and if shed known she wouldnt have  chosen  to 
lease the car; and
she wants to reject the car and shes referred to a decision  from this service in what 
she says are similar circumstances to hers where rejection  of the car has been 
ordered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
This service considers each complaint on its individual merits. Ive looked at the decision to 
which Miss R has referred and Im satisfied  that there are significant differences  between the 
circumstances in that complaint and the circumstances about which  Miss R has complained.
Miss R has been able to use the car that was supplied to her by Lex Autolease to drive  more 
than 24,000 miles and she chose to extend  the hire agreement. Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that the agreement  was mis-sold to her, that the diesel  
particulate filter is faulty or that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality  when it was supplied to 
her. Nor am I persuaded that the circumstances that Miss R has described  are enough to 
show that the car was misrepresented to her or that its not fit for purpose.
I set out an extract  from Lex Autoleases December 2018 e-mail  to Miss R in my provisional 
decision. Lex Autolease accepts that the e-mail  contained incorrect information and, 
although I accept  that the information  was incorrect, I consider that it was reasonable for 
Ref: DRN05243834Miss R to understand  from it that the car had been mis-sold to her, that there  was a fault with 
it and that the filter was failing because  of the mileage that shed agreed with Lex Autolease. 
Miss R says that the cars  diesel particulate filter was replaced three  times  under the cars  
warranty and shes paid a total of £780  for the filter to be replaced twice since  the warranty  
expired. In these  circumstances, I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Lex Autolease  
to pay £780 to Miss R to reimburse her for the costs that shes  incurred for the filter to be 
replaced twice. I dont consider that to be excessive or disproportionate.  Im not persuaded 
that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require Lex Autolease  to allow  Miss R to reject  
the car, to refund any of her monthly  payments,  to pay her any other compensation or to 
take any other action  in response to her complaint.
 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Miss Rs complaint in part and I 
order Lex Autolease  Limited,  trading as Land Rover Contract Hire, to pay £780 to Miss R to 
reimburse her for the costs that shes incurred.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0524383