K820x#14complaint
Mrs T and Mr N complain  about the service  they got from Barclays  Bank UK PLC when they 
tried to port their mortgage. Mrs T and Mr N want compensation for the stress, time and 
anxiety that Barclays  put them through at the time.
background
Mrs T and Mr N had a mortgage with Barclays on a fixed  interest  rate and with an Early 
Repayment Charge  (ERC) payable  if they redeemed the mortgage early.  To avoid the 
ERC, Mrs T and Mr N could port the mortgage  product. Mrs T spoke to a mortgage adviser 
about this on 10 August.  Mrs T says that the adviser  told her porting would be 
straightforward and that she should  apply to port when she got a completion date for her 
purchase and sale.   
Mrs T and Mr N got a completion  date of 10 September and spoke to a Barclays mortgage  
adviser who told them that the process  could take three months  and that there would be a 
full mortgage application. Mrs T and Mr N then began  a mortgage application but Barclays 
told them  that they couldnt use their nominated solicitor  who wasnt on Barclays 
conveyancing panel. Mrs T and Mr N continued to use their own solicitor. They eventually 
completed the purchase partly with money  they raised themselves and paid the ERC. 
Barclays agreed that Mrs T had been misinformed during the calls and had got poor service. 
It initially offered compensation of £100 but on review refunded  Mrs T and Mr N the £1,700 
ERC. Our adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She felt that 
the offer made by Barclays was fair and reasonable. Mrs T and Mr N disagreed and asked 
for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs T and Mr N were misinformed about Barclays requirements if they wished 
to port their mortgage when Mrs T phoned  a Barclays adviser in mid-August. After listening 
to that call I note that Mrs T was told that porting would be a simple exercise and wouldnt 
require an affordability  assessment.  So, I understand Mrs Ts frustration when  in her next 
phone call on 28 August  she was told that she would have to make  a mortgage application 
and that there would be an affordability  assessment. 
There was a further call on 30 August 2018.  That call hasnt been made available to me 
because Barclays say that they cant locate  the call. So I cant  be sure what was said. I 
appreciate that I would be better  informed with that phone call but I cant  require Barclays  to 
produce something they cant  locate.
Mrs T says that she was told in that call that the application would take three months  and 
that she was in terms told that she shouldnt be buying the property. Its clear that Mrs T 
found this an uncomfortable phone call.
It does seem that after this call and for a short period Mrs T and Mr N started the process of 
a mortgage application. I note in another call that Mrs T mentions  submitting  65 pieces of 
Ref: DRN09138982paper which I assume was back-up  documentation for a mortgage application. In an email to 
her financial  adviser on 31 August Mrs T says that she has an application in hand  but isnt 
happy with her mortgage adviser.
 In that email  Mrs T refers  to Barclays agreeing to have their completion  team  in place for the 
completion on 10 September  which suggests  that Barclays was prepared  to fast tracking the 
application. That email  and several  others are addressed to a financial adviser  which 
indicates that Mrs T and Mr N were getting  advice from an independent financial adviser.
Mrs T didnt  go ahead with the application to Barclays. The application  had reached a hitch  
on 4 September  as Barclays didnt want Mrs T and Mr N to use the solicitor  they had 
engaged as he wasnt on its conveyancing panel.  Its a normal requirement  if a solicitor is to 
act for a lender that the solicitor should be on its panel. Mrs T told her solicitor that day that 
she wasnt going to port. 
On 4 September Barclays also offered  to refund the ERC that Mrs T and Mr N would pay 
when they sold the property on that Friday. Mrs T understood that to mean that this would be 
refunded when Mrs T ported the mortgage later. I note that Mrs T replied  on 5 September  
2018 that  I would suggest that in this instance  Barclays should waive the 3% early 
redemption charge and we part company   Barclays said that it wouldnt do that but because 
of what it called a misunderstanding and instead  offered compensation of £100.
Mrs T was unhappy with this. I listened  to a phone  call Mrs T had with a member of Barclays 
complaints team on 24 September. I noted  that Mrs Ts purchase hadnt yet occurred but 
was to happen on 17 October. The complaints officer agreed with Mrs Ts points and asked 
what solution Mrs T wanted. In that call Mrs T reinforced what she asked for before  which  
was that Barclays  refunds  the ERC. I noted that in that call that Mrs T at that stage wasnt  
interested then in porting  the mortgage as she hoped to access a better rate than they had 
been paying.
The Barclays complaints  adviser agreed with Mrs T and said he would see what  he could do. 
It was agreed that he would write  to Mrs T. The adviser wrote the same day agreeing  to 
Mrs Ts terms and refunded the ERC.  Unfortunately Mrs T didnt get that letter immediately. 
It was sent to Mrs Ts old address although  I understand there was a redirection facility in 
place. It seems that the Barclays refund  was sent to an account that Mrs T and Mr N rarely 
use so unfortunately  they were unaware of it at that time.
Looking at the complaint as a whole  I can see that Mrs T was given poor advice about  
porting which  was exacerbated by an unsympathetic phone  call at the end of August. 
Barclays initial investigation was poor as the complaints adviser conceded. Mrs Ts preferred 
solution was that she walked away form Barclays having recovered the ERC.
 I can understand the benefit to Mrs T and Mr N of that as it would allow them  to access 
other interest rates without losing  money  by having to pay the ERC. I consider this a fair 
solution to the complaint. As Barclays has already  implemented this solution, I cant fairly 
require it to do anything  more and, so, I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN09138983Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 September 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0913898