K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (John  Lewis)  wont refund a
payment made on his credit card to a secondary  ticket selling website  (the Website) for
concert tickets.
background
In August  2018,  Mr M purchased tickets through the Website to attend a concert  using his
John Lewis  credit card. The total cost charged to Mr Ms card was £364.73.
Mr M says shortly  after purchasing the tickets, information appeared confirming the tickets
wouldnt be dispatched until one week before the concert. So, he tried to cancel  the tickets.
Mr M also says seat numbers werent  provided and that he wasnt informed  of the face value
of the tickets. Mr M says when looking into the Website, he realised he wasnt  guaranteed
entry into the concert venue as his name wouldnt  be on the ticket. So, he asked John Lewis
for help.
John Lewis  looked  into the matter, but they didnt  think they could help. They  didnt think
they could raise a chargeback but explained  a dispute could be raised  if Mr M didnt receive
the tickets, if they were  invalid or if he was refused entry to the event. But this wasnt the
case in Mr Ms situation. They also thought  a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit
Act 1974 (CCA) would also be unsuccessful as they didnt  think  the necessary arrangement
was in place for a valid claim.
Mr M didnt  think  this was fair, so he brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator
looked into the matter. Overall, he didnt think John Lewis had acted unfairly by declining
Mr Ms request for a refund. Mr M didnt agree. In summary, he reiterated that he wasnt
made aware  the tickets wouldnt arrive until closer to the event date,  that he didnt get what
he ordered and there was no guaranteed  admission into the concert.  Mr M also said he
didnt think it was fair for John Lewis to not accept his claim for a refund under  Section 75.
So, the complaint has been passed  to me.
I issued my provisional decision setting out the following:
I understand Mr M has reiterated to us that his complaint isnt against  the Website  and that it
is instead against John Lewis. So, I want to make  clear that this decision is not about the
secondary ticket selling website, which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall
within my remit.  Im only considering whether Mr M authorised  John Lewis to debit the
account with the value  of the payment and whether John Lewis should have helped with the
dispute with the Website in any other way. With that in mind, Ill be asking myself three
questions in order to determine whether Mr M has been treated fairly and reasonably by
John Lewis.
did Mr M authorise John Lewis to debit the account with the value of the payment?
Mr M says he made the transaction for these tickets  and was willing  to purchase the tickets
at that price.  It was only afterwards did he find out the face value of the tickets. He doesnt
argue he didnt go to the Website and buy the tickets on his credit card.
Ive seen the steps someone needed  to follow to buy tickets  on the Website  in June 2018 
which I think is more than likely the same steps Mr M followed when he purchased the
tickets two months later. The sales process, in brief, was as follows:
Ref: DRN02536042-The buyer chooses the event  and date they want the tickets for.
-The buyer selects how many  tickets they want,  and then chooses the tickets  they 
want. The location (section  and row) and price per ticket are shown. A summary  pops 
up, and to continue, a buyer clicks Buy. At the bottom of this section there is a 
general notes  box. One of the bullet points in this box says, prices are set by sellers  
and may be lower or higher than face value.
-The buyer is then able to confirm the number of tickets they wish to purchase. And 
then press continue.  Below  this, there  is a note saying  prices are set by sellers and 
may be lower or higher  than face value. Prices  exclude booking  and delivery  fees 
(applicable by transaction).  Original face value price per ticket  (excluding fees)  £X* 
amount. *The original  face value per ticket is quoted. As Im not sure what  the 
original face value was for the tickets  in Mr Ms case, Ive quoted £X.
-The buyer enters their personal  information. At the top left-hand side of the page,  the 
number of tickets selected and the price per ticket  are shown. It has a note below this 
which says Not Included:  Handling Fee, VAT and Booking Fee.
-The delivery method  is confirmed,  and at the top left-hand  side the number of tickets 
selected, the price  per ticket  and handling  fees per ticket are shown. It has a note 
below this which says Not Included: VAT and Booking Fee.
-The buyer selects the payment method, and at the top left-hand  side the number of 
tickets selected, the price  per ticket and handling fees per ticket are shown. It has a 
note below this which says Not Included:  VAT and Booking Fee.
-The buyer enters their payment details (name  on card, card number, expiry date and 
card security code).  At the top left-hand side the number  of tickets selected,  the price  
per ticket,  location  of the seats, handling  fees per ticket,  and VAT and booking fee 
per ticket  are shown. Also included is the total price, in capitals and in bold.
-The buyer completes  the purchase. In the centre  of the screen the number of tickets 
selected, the price  per ticket,  location  of the seats, handling fees per ticket, and VAT 
and booking fee per ticket  are shown. Also included  is the total price,  in capitals and 
in bold. The buyer  then has to click, at the bottom of the page, to complete the 
purchase.
I cant be certain whether  the seat numbers  were displayed when Mr M booked  his tickets,
but as shown above, the process  allows for it. However, even if they hadnt been displayed,
Im not persuaded this would have  influenced  Mr Ms decision to purchase  the tickets   Mr M
hasnt said he was intending to purchase  tickets in a specific area of the venue.
Having considered what Mr M has said (including  that he made this purchase and paid for
the tickets) and the evidence of John  Lewis, Im satisfied the transaction  was properly
authorised and correctly  applied  to Mr Ms credit card account with John Lewis.
could John Lewis challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant,  as Mr M
does here,  John Lewis (as the card issuer)  can attempt a chargeback. Generally, we say its
fair for a card issuer to attempt a chargeback - or to challenge a payment  if theres  a
reasonable prospect of success, for example where goods or services arent received or it
appears that the payment  wasnt  properly  authorised by the cardholder.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where chargeback  has
Ref: DRN02536043been successful.  But it doesnt necessarily follow that John Lewis  should  have attempted
one here.  What I need to decide is if, in the particular circumstances of this complaint,  I think
they should have. But I dont think John  Lewis couldve challenged the payment on the basis
Mr M didnt  properly authorise the transaction, given the conclusions  Ive already set out.
Mr M says the face value  of the tickets  were different to the price he paid and hes unhappy
about this. Based on what Ive seen from the process, the Website makes customers  aware
that the price  of tickets may be higher  or lower than the face value. And it also provides the
original face value of the tickets. I dont think theres a reason code John Lewis could have
used under the chargeback scheme rules to get Mr Ms money back  on the basis that he
was being charged more  than a tickets face value. So, I think it was reasonable for
John Lewis  not to challenge  the transaction on that basis.
Mr M says as his name wasnt on the tickets, he wasnt  guaranteed  entry  into the concert.
Mr M says he had to wait months  to find out if he was able to get in to the event.  But in the
end, Mr M says he did attend the concert  and was able to gain entry.
I understand Mr Ms reluctance  to spend time and money travelling to an event if he didnt
think hed be able to gain entry. The Websites terms  and conditions confirm that as a
secondary ticket selling website, they allow third party sellers, including  individuals, to sell
tickets. Therefore, in some instances,  the original purchasers name may be printed  on
tickets. But they confirm the tickets are valid and that the buyers name doesnt need to 
match the name on the ticket to gain entry. I understand  Mr M has told us that when he 
spoke to the promoter of the concert  and the venue  they couldnt guarantee his entry.
However, the Websites terms and conditions confirm the tickets  are valid despite the name
being different  on the ticket to the buyers name. Ultimately, Mr M received the tickets and
attended the event. So, I dont think John  Lewis could  have challenged  the payment on the
basis that he didnt  get what he paid for.
Mr M also says he wasnt aware until after purchasing the tickets  that they wouldnt arrive
until closer to the time of the event. Ive looked at the Websites terms and conditions  and
can see they explain event organisers tend to release tickets in the weeks  leading up to an
event, sometimes even  just a few days beforehand. So, I dont  think John Lewis  could have
challenged the transaction on the basis of Mr M not receiving the tickets in time.
John Lewis  are required to consider whether  there is a reasonable prospect of success
when they are considering whether to go through the chargeback  process or not. Bearing in
mind Mr M says he wanted to buy the tickets, authorised  the transaction and got the tickets,
John Lewis  decision that there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success  in a chargeback is
fair and reasonable in my opinion. So, I think they acted fairly  in not raising  a chargeback.
how about Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974?
As the payment was made using a credit  card, I have also taken  into account how
Section 75 applies  to the transaction. John Lewis argue that Mr M doesnt have a valid claim
because of the arrangements involved in the transaction. But I dont fully agree,  and Ill
explain why.
The transaction was made using Mr Ms John Lewis credit card. Under  Section  75, in certain
circumstances, he has an equal  right to claim against John Lewis  as he does against the
Ref: DRN02536044supplier (the Website) if theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the
supplier.
My role isnt to decide John Lewis liability under Section 75. Instead, as statute  requires me
to, I need  to decide whats fair and reasonable, taking into account any relevant law, such  as
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.
For a valid claim  under  Section 75 there must  be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement  in
place. The websites  terms  and conditions say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange.  [websites name]  provides a service that allows  members
who want to buy tickets  ("Buyers") to find members who want  to sell tickets
("Sellers"). [websites name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual
transactions are between  the Buyers and Sellers.
This satisfies me that the tickets arent  supplied by the Website. But that the Website
does provide a service.  And for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the
Website says it:
charges  a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed  in the checkout
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [websites  name]  platform,
guaranteeing tickets  and providing customer service.
So, in effect,  there  is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mr M, John Lewis and
the Website, albeit not for the direct provision  of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website  
provides a service.  The service consists of two main things - the platform  and the guarantee.
So, I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such  as venue, date, time,
seat location and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee,
its responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund if the seller  doesnt fulfil their
obligations around supplying the tickets.
Another condition  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided
by the Website must have  a cash price of more  than £100 but less than £30,000. In this
case, I havent seen a breakdown of the amount Mr M paid - he was charged £364.73. Ive
found - from looking at screenshots of a number of purchases through  the Website - that the
Websites fee makes up about  a third of the total cost. One third of £364.73  is £121.58. So, I
think its more likely  than not the Websites fee for its service in this case  was more than
£100 and less than £30,000. This means I think Mr M could have a valid claim under Section
75.
Lastly, for a valid claim Mr M would need  to show  a breach of contract or misrepresentation
by the Website.  Ill address each of his points in turn below:
-The face value  of the tickets was a different price to what Mr M paid
As Ive explained, Ive looked at the steps Mr M likely followed when he purchased  the
tickets. Within this process, the Website outlines  that the cost of the tickets  may be higher or
lower than the actual  face value and provides the original face value of the tickets. While this
information isnt prominent and could  easily be missed, the information is there. I think its
arguable that the Website didnt make it clear  enough that the face value may have been
lower than what Mr M paid, but this is different than presenting an untrue statement of fact.
Ref: DRN02536045-The tickets wouldnt allow entry
It was for the seller to provide the tickets  to Mr M. But as Ive already said, the Website
provides a guarantee as part of its service. The Websites terms and conditions say:
If You receive tickets from the Seller that are not the tickets  you ordered or tickets
that are invalid and not honoured at the venue, we strongly advise you to Contact Us
to report the issue.  Issues must be reported within 14 days after receiving the tickets
otherwise this will no longer be covered by the [websites name] Guarantee.
It also says:
In the rare instance that a problem arises and the original ticket  Seller  does not
provide You with the tickets listed for sale, [websites name] will, in its sole and
absolute discretion, review comparably priced  tickets and offer You replacement
tickets at no additional cost, or [websites name] will issue You a refund for the cost
of the tickets.
So, in effect,  if Mr M didnt receive  the tickets, he could make a claim under the Websites
guarantee. Im not aware of Mr M making  a claim though. It follows that the Website  cant
have breached their contract with Mr M by not refunding him under the guarantee. In any
case, as Ive already set out earlier, theres nothing to show  there was a problem with the
tickets Mr M received  as hes told us he was able to attend and gain entry into the venue.
So, Im not persuaded that, even  if Mr M did make a claim, it ought  to have been accepted 
by the Website.  So, I cant  fairly tell John Lewis to refund Mr M on the basis of a breach of
contract by the Website because he didnt get valid tickets.
-The tickets didnt  provide seat numbers
As Ive explained, I cant be sure if seat numbers were displayed or not. However, the
process does allow  for them to be displayed. So, I cant say for certain  on that basis  there
has been a breach of contract  or a misrepresentation.
-The tickets wouldnt be dispatched  until closer  to the event date
For the same reasons  as described  above, Im not persuaded there  was breach of contract
or misrepresentation here. Im satisfied that the terms and conditions are clear in explaining
that tickets tend to be released in the weeks leading up to the event.
So overall, Im not persuaded that there was breach or misrepresentation here by the
Website. The Website have provided a service  (as Ive described) and I am not persuaded
they have breached the contract  in Mr Ms case. Nor have they misrepresented their service
to Mr M.
In summary,  I currently think John Lewis acted fairly in the handling of Mr Ms chargeback
claim. I also think that there is the appropriate relationship for a Section 75 claim and I think
it does meet the financial limits. So, I dont think it was right for John Lewis  to not consider
Mr Ms Section 75 claim for the reasons they gave. Although, had John Lewis  done  so, I
dont think they wouldve  acted unfairly by declining Mr Ms claim. So, I dont think
John Lewis  need  to do anything more.
John Lewis  responded to my provisional decision and said they didnt have anything further 
to add. 
Ref: DRN02536046Mr M responded to my provisional decision. In summary, he didnt think I could  have seen 
the steps someone needed to take to purchase tickets  on the Website in 2018. Mr M 
reiterated what he felt John Lewis were liable for such as not being told when the tickets 
would arrive  or that he may not gain entry into the venue with the tickets  hed bought.  Mr M 
also mentioned  a court action against the Website in 2018. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said. I appreciate Mr M says he doesnt think  I had 
access to the Website  from 2018.  However, I want to assure Mr M I have seen the steps  
someone needed to follow on the Website in June 2018. I note Mr M has said he contacted 
Mastercard headquarters  in America to ask them about the guidelines John Lewis  had 
previously referred to in relation to the chargeback. I'm not sure who Mr M spoke to, but I'm 
satisfied there are rules  that apply when a chargeback is attempted, and that they apply  in 
his circumstances.
I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling on the matter  and Ive considered the points hes 
made about court action against  the Website. However, as my decision is about John Lewis, 
I am limited to looking  at what they can be held responsible for rather than the whole 
business practice of the Website. Having  thought  about everything again, Im not persuaded 
there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation in Mr Ms case  for the same  
reasons I provided  in my provisional  decision. So, I see no reason to depart from this 
decision. Its also for these same  reasons I cant say that had John Lewis  considered Mr Ms 
Section 75 claim, I dont  think they wouldve acted unfairly in declining  the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0253604