K820x#14complaint
Mr F1 and Mr F2 complain about  the way Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc has dealt with 
a claim under a Home  insurance  policy.
For ease Ill simply  refer to Mr F throughout this decision, rather than both.
background
There is a long and detailed background to this complaint of which the parties are aware.  I 
dont intend to rehearse the details as theres  not much  in dispute about the facts.  Its helpful 
though to set the context briefly and included with the information provided by the parties are 
expert reports.
The property was purchased with subsidence  related issues.  RSA has carried  out periods of 
monitoring and offered to settle the claim with a cash payment. Mr F though  believes the 
property should  be demolished and rebuilt. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and explained her view that RSA didnt 
need to do anything more above what it had done and offered to Mr F. She said RSA had 
identified a leaking drain and eventually Mr F agreed  that RSA could  repair it. The repair  was 
done, and RSA carried out further  monitoring of the home, which confirmed the property  was 
stable. RSA then offered  and paid an amount of money to Mr F so that he could arrange for 
the remaining  repairs to be done.  In addition,  Mr F chose  an independent structural engineer 
to comment on the reports and monitoring results. The outcome of this was that the home 
was considered stable and repairs to the home, concrete slab and repairs could take place. 
Mr F disagreed saying monitoring was done  incorrectly and the property wasnt  stable.
Mr F has raised  additional points during our investigation and RSA has consented to us 
looking at those in this complaint. The main one concerns RSAs decision to remove  
dehumidifiers (there is damp in the home) and not offer to pay for replacements.  Its said by 
Mr F that RSA is putting people in the property  at risk.
The investigator concluded that an expert had commented on the damp issues  as being  a 
possible result  of several matters including;  damp  proof membrane compromised due to 
cracks in the floor; a previous leak in the bathroom; and lack of ventilation and heating.  RSA 
had agreed to the experts recommendation to fill the cracks and address the bathroom leak.  
The investigator explained that Mr F had not agreed  with RSA carrying out this work and as 
such, she thought it would be unfair to expect  RSA to continue paying  for dehumidifiers  and 
additional electricity  in the circumstances. Additionally, the investigator  noted that RSA had 
cash-settled bathroom work in 2015  which included the cost of a dehumidifier,  and a further 
amount in 2019. She didnt recommend upholding this part of the complaint. 
Mr F disagrees with what the investigator  has said and so the complaint has been referred to 
an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN09324602Mr Fs policy excludes loss, damage, liability, cost or expense  of any kind which  occurs  as a 
result of an event before  the policy starts. And where RSA does cover  a claim it can opt to 
pay a cash amount but wont  pay more than it would cost RSA to repair the damage.
RSAs liability here does not extend  to correcting the subsidence, which was a pre-existing 
issue. It has agreed to repair, or cash settle  damage that has occurred since. From all the 
evidence Ive seen,  which includes the expert reports, Im satisfied that RSA has 
demonstrated the home is stable after drainage  repairs. Ive taken into account what  Mr Fs 
expert report says but Im persuaded by RSAs expert that monitoring over a significant 
duration was carried  out, and that the result was property stability. And I agree with the 
investigator that should Mr F instruct further monitoring from his own expert that evidences  
movement then the results should be sent to RSA for its consideration.
RSAs cash offer of £38,563.12  (ex VAT on repairs) appears in line with what  RSA would 
pay if it carried out the repairs identified but excluding  the rebuild of the home or replacing 
the raft foundation. Im satisfied  thats  in line with RSAs policy liability  and reiterate that RSA 
is not liable  for rebuilding the home  Mr F bought with existing subsidence issues.  Mr Fs 
experts view is that the most cost-effective option to correct  the subsidence is to demolish 
and rebuild the property. But this isnt what RSA is on risk for because the subsidence was 
present when Mr F bought the home. 
On the dehumidifier point, RSA has paid amounts  in relation to this for other  claim issues  
and Mr F could  have used this to buy a dehumidifier. Im satisfied that RSA has done  
everything reasonable that it should have in the circumstances and it would be unfair for me 
to direct it to do any more.
In summary,  the issues arise because of the condition of the home at the point Mr F bought 
it. RSA as the home insurer  is not liable for the substantive subsidence issue. It has taken a 
pragmatic approach to try and resolve  the issues it is liable  for and has made a fair offer in 
terms of the amount of money it offered  Mr F to carry out the repairs  that the policy  covers. 
The resolution Mr F wants  RSA to demolish  the property, install a new pile foundation and 
then rebuild the property  is not something  Im persuaded  RSA is liable for. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F1 and Mr F2 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0932460