K820x#14complaint
Mr As complained that Tradewise Insurance Company Limited  unfairly avoided his motor
insurance policy.
background
Mr A claimed on his policy after being involved in an accident. He was unhappy  with how
long repairs were taking  and that he hadnt been  provided with a hire car. He complained to
our service.
Tradewise appointed an investigator to visit Mr A to discuss what  happened. Tradewise told
Mr A it had avoided his policy (which means it cancelled it from the start as though  it never
existed) because he had provided the wrong address (which  Ill refer to as M) when he
bought the policy. It said hed carried out a quote online through  a comparison website and
then phoned to buy the policy. Tradewise  thought  Mr A had given the wrong  information
deliberately. It said it wouldnt pay Mr As claim and would seek to recover  any money it paid
out to any other driver who claimed  against his policy. So, Mr A asked us to look into this.
Tradewise said when  Mr A bought  his policy he told the broker  he lived at M. However, it
said all the documentation  relating to his car listed a different address, that Ill refer to as E.
Also, Mr A was on the electoral role at E. Tradewise said Mr A also said he used the
train to commute to work from M to an address in the same postcode as E. It said hed
provided a mobile  phone bill and driving  licence showing  his address was M. But it didnt
consider this as acceptable proof  of where  he lived. Tradewise said it had asked Mr A for
proof that he commuted  by train from M, but he hadnt provided this. Tradewise told Mr A it
thought hed been commuting to work when the accident happened, and this wasnt  covered
under his policy.
Tradewise said it would  have charged  Mr A more for the policy  if hed provided the correct
details. And as it thought hed deliberately provided  misleading information it avoided the
policy.
Mr A said E belongs to his mother and M to his cousin. He said he lives at both addresses
and commutes to work from M. He thought  Tradewise  was trying to get out of paying the
claim.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 29 November  2019.  In that decision I 
said:
When he bought  his policy Mr A had a responsibility - under the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) - to take reasonable care not to make  a
misrepresentation. And for Tradewise to take any action at all it needs to show Mr A didnt
do this and that he made whats described  as a qualifying  misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of things that need to be considered when deciding  whether a
consumer failed to take reasonable care. One of these considerations is the questions  the
consumer was asked.  Ive seen a screenshot  from the comparison website that shows  Mr A
was asked his address.  As part of this question it says, We assume  that the car youre
insuring is kept at this address. Mr A answered  M. Ive also listened to the call where Mr A
phoned to buy the policy. He gave  his address as M when confirming his details and he said
he commuted to work by train.
Ref: DRN06385902Mr As explained that he lives at both addresses. He said he commutes to work from M and
stays at E at the weekends. He said he needed  to move his family away  from E and so stays
with his cousin.  Hes provided a copy of his driving  licence and mobile phone bill registered
to M. He said his bank  account isnt registered there  because hes not the home owner.
I accept that people can live at two addresses, but Ive thought about whats  most  likely here
and, in this particular case,  Im more persuaded that Mr A should have provided address E
when buying his policy.
Mr A is on the electoral  roll at E which is around  60 miles away from M. His V5 document
and the finance relating to his car are listed  as E. Ive also noted that he gave his address as
E when  he brought his complaint to us. Mr A works in the same  postcode  as E and hasnt
provided any evidence  to persuade me he commutes to work from M by train. In fact, when
interviewed by Tradewises investigator Mr A said he was driving to work. So, I think
Tradewises decision to say Mr A lives in E is reasonable.
In view of this, I think Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
But to show Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying one, under CIDRA  Tradewise  needs
to show it would either not have offered the policy at all, if Mr A hadnt made the
misrepresentation or that it would have  offered  it on different terms. Tradewise has shown
that it would  still have sold Mr A a policy, but the premium  would  have been  higher if hed
given his address  as E. So, Im satisfied Mr A made a qualifying misrepresentation.
While I agree with our investigator that Mr A also failed to take reasonable care when asked
how he got to work,  Tradewise has confirmed it would  have  still offered the policy, and at the
same price. So, Im not going to consider the answer Mr A gave about how he got work, as
this isnt a qualifying misrepresentation in its own right.
Im satisfied giving  the wrong address was a qualifying misrepresentation though. And a
qualifying misrepresentation can either be deliberate  or reckless or careless. Tradewise has
provided enough evidence to show its most likely Mr A lives at E and should have given that
address when buying his policy. And I find it unlikely  that he would give the wrong  address
by mistake. So, Im not going  to interfere with Tradewises decision to say he made a
deliberate misrepresentation. As a remedy for a deliberate misrepresentation, CIDRA allows
the insurer to avoid the policy and keep the premium. Thats  what  Tradewise has done and I
dont intend to interfere with that. It follows that Tradewise  dont have  to pay Mr As claim
and can look to recover anything it pays out to the other driver.
Neither Tradewise nor Mr A responded to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Tradewise  nor Mr A responded, I see no reason  to depart from my provisional 
findings. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN06385903my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0638590