K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mrs M and Mr W payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a secured loan in 1994. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs M and Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place about  24 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so many years ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive considered carefully the comments of Mrs M and Mr W and their representatives. 
However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why:
I dont have strong evidence to show  that Lloyds failed to follow  the proper practice of 
making Mrs M and Mr W aware the PPI was optional; or that it didnt ensure that they 
freely chose  to take it. Without stronger evidence, it wouldnt be fair for me to say that 
Lloyds acted wrongly in that way.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mrs M and Mr W, but I dont  have strong 
evidence that the recommendation was unsuitable. Mrs M and Mr W say they were self-
employed, and so this means  they wouldnt have  had employee sickness benefits, if they 
were unable  to work through ill health. They say they had other  insurance  policies to 
protect their income  but without  some confirming evidence of this, I cant  assess  
whether these would  have  been enough to make the PPI unnecessary. And being 
unable to pay a secured loan can lead to significant difficulties.  
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the cost of the policy. But I dont anyway 
think, in their circumstances, full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Mrs M and Mr W took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But 
its unlikely Mrs M and Mr W would have been  affected by any of these.
Ref: DRN05015632my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0501563