K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains about a landlord  insurance  policy that Barbon Insurance  Group  Limited sold 
to him. Hes unhappy the policy didnt cover his loss of rent when he claimed for damage 
caused by his tenants.
background
Mr I took out a landlord insurance policy through Letsure Limited, which  later became part of 
Barbon. This means that Barbon is responsible  for the policy  sale and this complaint. 
Ageas Insurance Limited is the insurer that underwrites the cover, and this means Ageas is 
responsible for any claims. At the time the policy was taken out, it was underwritten  by 
Groupama Insurance Company Limited.  But because Groupama  later became part of 
Ageas, Ageas is responsible for any claim decisions Groupama  previously made.
For ease, I will simply  refer to Barbon  when referencing the actions of Letsure; and to Ageas 
when referencing the actions of Groupama.
Barbon says that Mr I took out a policy in 2010. Mr I has made the point  that he first took out 
policies with Barbon around 2005. The policy taken out in 2010 covered several of his rental 
properties. Barbon says the policy lapsed  in 2011 because premium  payments were missed.  
It says it therefore gave Mr I two options:  he could either bring his premiums up-to-date to 
continue with the same cover, or he could start a new policy.  Barbon says Mr I decided to 
start a new policy, which began in April 2011.  Mr I says he didnt miss any payments, but 
rather, there was a problem with the renewal date which  meant a new start date was 
needed. He says he was told it would be the same policy, providing the same cover. 
Mr Is previous policy covered malicious damage  caused by tenants as standard.  However, 
on his new policy this cover was optional, and it wasnt added.  Mr I says after he received  
the documents for his new policy, he spoke  to Barbon and it confirmed he had cover for 
malicious damage and loss of rent. Mr I said he asked about this because  the policy 
literature was misleading.
Mr I says he made two claims for malicious  damage  caused by his tenants; in May 2011  and 
June 2013. He says whilst  the damage was covered,  his loss of rent wasnt. He made a third 
claim in August 2014, and on that occasion, he was told neither  the malicious damage or his 
loss of rent was covered.  Mr I complained to Barbon  that malicious damage had previously 
been covered.  Barbon responded to the complaint  in 2015.
Barbon has told this service that it no longer  has details about the 2011 claim. So, it doesnt 
know what was claimed for, or what was settled.  But it says the 2013 claim was settled by 
mistake, and this was due to the third party handling the claim not being  aware  that Mr Is 
new policy didnt include the optional malicious damage by tenants  cover.  
When responding to the complaint in 2015,  Barbon  explained that the 2014 claim had been 
correctly declined by the insurer on the basis the optional cover  hadnt been included  in his 
policy. However, Barbon accepted it had sent Mr I misleading policy  documentation due to 
the insurance certificate indicating malicious damage was included.  So, Barbon  offered to 
assume responsibility for considering the claim (rather than Ageas, the insurer)  as if the 
optional cover had been included. 
Ref: DRN02262312Mr I went on to refer his complaint about the 2014 claim to this service. In 2015,  one of our 
adjudicators thought Barbon should also cover  Mr Is loss of rent for the 2014  claim. This 
was on the basis  the repairs had been  delayed by Ageas  declining the claim. Barbon 
accepted his recommendation.
In 2018, Mr I brought a further complaint to us against Barbon. This complaint was about his 
2011 and 2013 claims and his loss of rent not being covered. Mr I said he had remembered 
that his two earlier claims were identical to his 2014  claim. So, because  his loss of rent had 
been settled on the 2014 claim, he didnt think he had been treated  fairly  on the two earlier 
claims. He also pointed towards policy documentation sent by Barbon, which in his view 
supported loss of rent was covered. 
When responding to Mr Is 2018  complaint,  Barbon explained that the loss of rent cover only 
applied to the first eleven events listed in the buildings  section  of the policy, and malicious 
damage caused by tenants fell outside of those eleven events. So, Barbon concluded the 
claims had been  assessed  correctly. Barbon also explained that whilst it had covered lost 
rent for the 2014 claim, this was due to the claim delays   not because loss of rent was 
covered under the policy terms. One of our investigators considered the complaint and 
agreed with Barbon.  Because  Mr I was unhappy with the outcome she reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
After the case was passed to me, Barbon clarified that it does not act as an agent  for Ageas 
in respect of responding to complaints about claim decisions. Barbon  explained  it had been  
handling Mr Is complaint from a sale and literature  perspective only.
Barbon says the policy  was sold during a phone call on a non-advised  basis,  and the policy  
documents were  sent to Mr I immediately after the sale so he could ensure the cover was 
suitable for his needs. It also says documentation  was sent at the subsequent  renewals. 
Barbon is of the view that no errors were made during the sale,  and it says the policy 
literature clearly showed loss of rent wasnt part of the malicious damage by tenants  
coverage.
I issued a provisional decision is January 2020. I explained I didnt intend to uphold  the 
complaint: 
I have considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
There are two separate issues here:  was the policy mis-sold by Barbon and were  the policy 
terms applied correctly  and fairly  when the claims were considered  by Ageas. Im unable to 
consider both issues under this complaint. I can only consider the issues that relate to the 
business this complaint  is against. Mr I made  his complaint to, and about Barbon,  so I will 
therefore consider  the sale.
Ref: DRN02262313This means,  although  I will be commenting generally  on whats covered  by the policy  terms, 
I wont be considering  Ageas  specific decisions  in 2011 or 2013 in relation to those claims. 
We would  need  details from Ageas about  those claims,  via a separate complaint, before 
giving the matter consideration. Therefore, if Mr I still believes the policy terms werent 
applied appropriately  in 2011 or 2013,  he needs to complain to Ageas and give it the 
opportunity to respond. He can then return to us if he remains unhappy. 
Mr Is lapsed policy covered malicious damage  by tenants as standard,  and this type of claim 
covered loss of rent. However, under Mr Is new policy, malicious damage by tenants wasnt 
covered as standard; the cover was optional,  and it had to be added  separately. The policy  
did cover  loss of rent as standard, but only for the first eleven events listed  in the standard  
buildings section  which didnt include the optional malicious damage by tenants cover.  
Therefore, the new policy didnt  cover loss of rent when malicious damage was caused by 
tenants. In my view,  this reduced  loss of rent coverage is the crux of Mr Is complaint 
against Barbon, in terms of the sale. So, thats the matter Ive considered here. 
Barbon says the new policy was taken  out during a phone call in 2011. It hasnt provided a 
recording of the call, and we also havent  been given the 2011  point of sale documents,  or 
the 2012 renewal  documents.  But this isnt unusual after so much time has passed. 
However, we have been given the documents that were sent to Mr I for the 2013 and 2014 
renewals, and the emails showing they were  sent. On balance,  given Barbon had a duty to 
provide Mr I with his policy details, I consider it likely that similar information would have 
been provided to him in 2011  and 2012.
Barbon says the policy  was sold on a non-advised basis, and if so, this means  it was Mr Is 
responsibility to make  sure the policy met his needs   rather  than Barbons responsibility  to 
make sure the policy was suitable for him. I havent seen anything that leads me to believe 
advice was given  to Mr I about the policy, and the renewal information Ive seen confirms 
Barbon wasnt giving advice or making  a recommendation, but rather it was for Mr I to 
decide how to proceed.  Therefore, on balance, I accept the sale was non-advised. 
Whether advice was given or not, Barbon had to give Mr I information  in a clear,  fair, and 
non-misleading way so that he could make  an informed  choice  about  whether to take the 
policy out. 
Barbon has already  accepted its policy documents were misleading in respect of the optional  
malicious damage by tenants cover. Due to incorrect  wording  in the endorsement  section of 
the insurance certificate, Barbon accepted it could be interpreted the cover was included, 
when it wasnt. However,  Mr I says Ageas covered the damage on his first two malicious 
damage claims, so I cant reasonably decide that he was disadvantaged  by this issue  on 
those occasions.  Although  Ageas  declined  the damage on the third claim, Barbon has 
already put matters right by assuming responsibility for it.
So, whats  left to consider here, is whether the policy literature issued by Barbon was also 
misleading about loss of rent when  malicious  damage is caused by tenants.  Ive reviewed 
the available  renewal documents, but I havent  seen anything  that suggests  loss of rent is 
covered in these  circumstances. The renewal  invitations show  a monetary limit for loss of 
rent, but the accompanying policy terms clearly explain this cover  only applies to eleven 
scenarios, which  doesnt  include malicious  damage by tenants.
Ref: DRN02262314I appreciate Mr Is lapsed policy covered loss of rent when malicious damage was caused by 
tenants; and I accept he may not have been  aware  his new policy didnt, when it first started. 
However, the onus  was on Mr I to review his policy documents to ensure the new terms met 
his needs  and overall,  I dont consider the documents to be misleading about the loss of 
rent cover. 
In any event, on balance,  Im not persuaded that Mr I would  have done  anything differently 
even if the loss of rent difference had been  highlighted  to him at the time of the sale.  I say 
this because Mr I continued to keep the same policy in place after he knew  it didnt cover 
loss of rent when  malicious damage had been caused by tenants, following his 2011 and 
2013 claims.
Both Barbon and Mr I responded to my provisional decision. Barbon explained it didnt have 
anything further  to add. However, Mr I provided relatively comprehensive  comments  about 
the sale and his three claims. I will summarise the points he made  that are relevant  to this 
complaint, which  is about the sale:
-In the past hes been told that providing a tenancy agreement is valid,  a loss of rent 
would be covered when tenants  maliciously  cause damage.  He says he regularly 
asked about this during the first few years.
-Mr I says at no point  was he informed malicious  damage was now optional  cover and 
that loss of rent wasnt covered. He says he wouldnt have agreed to remove  either 
cover as one of his properties had previously been maliciously damaged by tenants  
and he had lost rent as a result.
-Barbon admit sending misleading  policy documents,  which is why it dealt with the 
2014 claim via its indemnity insurance.
-He was honest during his three claims  he didnt challenge an underinsurance  issue  
which cost him about £90,000. He says this supports hes being honest here, about 
being told a loss of rent would be covered if tenants cause malicious damage.
-He says he attempted to claim for loss of rent in 2011 and 2013, and at that time he 
complained the policy  had been mis-sold on the basis loss of rent wasnt covered; 
but his complaints were rejected over the phone and the complaints procedure 
wasnt explained to him. He says he wasnt made aware  of our service.
-He felt he had no choice but to accept the 2011  claim settlement  for the damage  and 
move on  and he did so on the understanding the next policy  would cover loss of 
rent when damage had been caused maliciously by tenants. He says during the 
following renewal he was told he had cover on the condition of a valid tenancy 
agreement. 
-Mr I says Barbon has said he was simply not covered for loss of rent. However, he 
says hes spoken to Barbon on several occasions, and its told him it does provide 
cover for loss or rent. He also says the terms explain  hes covered for loss of rent 
providing theres a valid tenancy agreement, and Barbon has confirmed this to be 
correct when he has read the terms back to its advisors.
Ref: DRN02262315-Mr I points towards his policy schedule and terms. The schedule shows a malicious 
damage policy endorsement, and this explains that cover  is extended to damage by 
malicious persons,  excluding malicious damage caused by paying guests without a 
formal tenancy  agreement. The terms explain a loss of rent is covered for the first 
eleven events  listed in Section A, but in the event the property is unoccupied or 
unfurnished at the time of the damage, loss of rent is only covered if a tenancy 
agreement had been entered into prior to the incident.
-Mr I says Ageas has told him that because the 2011 and 2013  claims were before it 
acquired Groupama, it would be up to Barbon to handle complaints about those 
claims.
-Mr I had to borrow  money in order to cover  the repairs to the properties, which he 
says the loss of rent would have  covered.  He says hes been put into financial 
distress and his health has been  affected.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  outcome  I reached in my provisional decision for the 
same reasons. Mr I has made many of the same arguments and its clear he disagrees with 
my interpretation of the policy  literature in terms of what  is and isnt covered. But Im afraid 
theres not much more  I can add to what I said in my provisional decision.  I will however, 
comment on the new points hes made  regarding the sale,  in addition  to clarifying some 
points I previously made.
Under Section B Buildings  Additional Cover  the policy  does cover  a loss of rent when a 
tenancy agreement  is in place, but this is only for the eleven  events listed under Section A 
Buildings  Standard Cover. Malicious damage  caused by tenants isnt one of the eleven 
events listed in Section  A; its listed under Section C Buildings  Accidental Damage and 
Malicious Acts Optional Extension. Although malicious acts is one of the eleven events, 
this specifically excludes damage caused by tenants  lawfully  on the property. Therefore, 
these terms mean a loss of rent isnt covered when malicious damage  is caused by the 
tenants.
I appreciate the documents refer to a tenancy agreement. However,  these references  simply 
mean that a) malicious damage by tenants is only covered if they held a tenancy agreement, 
and b) loss of rent is only covered for those specific eleven events if tenants with a formal 
agreement were renting  the property at the time. The references  to a tenancy  agreement 
dont mean  a loss of rent is covered  when  tenants  maliciously cause damage. Again, this 
isnt one of the eleven  events.
Ref: DRN02262316All parties  agree the policy  schedule is misleading in regards to the inclusion of the optional  
malicious damage extension. The schedule shows this extended cover  was in place at the 
time of the claims, even  though the additional  premium hadnt been paid. However, I cant 
reasonably uphold this complaint based on malicious damage not being included  given all 
three malicious damage claims  were settled despite Barbons error.  Mr I is unhappy with 
how Barbon handled his third claim under  its indemnity  insurance,  but this service has 
already considered that matter in 2015;  so, I wont be commenting further here.
For me to uphold this complaint, I would need  to be persuaded  the policy had been mis-sold 
in respect of loss of rent, and that Mr I would have  otherwise taken out alternative  cover so 
his loss of rent would  have been  covered  for malicious damage by tenants  claims. But as 
explained in my provisional decision  and here,  Im not persuaded the policy literature was 
misleading in respect of loss of rent; and as explained in my provisional decision,  Im also 
not persuaded Mr I would have arranged alternative cover.  
Ive also now considered Mr Is recollections about what he was told  to see if this changes 
my conclusions  but Ive not been  persuaded that he was misled  verbally  at any stage. Ill 
explain why.
Mr I says after his first claim  in May 2011,  he was told his next policy would cover a loss of 
rent when damage is caused maliciously  by tenants.  But he also went  on to renew the policy  
further in May 2014, after his second  claim in June 2013, when his loss of rent was again not 
covered  This is despite the false reassurances  he says he was given after the 2011 claim,  
and the mis-sale complaints he says he had made.  In my view, the renewals dont support 
he had previously been misled about his loss of rent cover.  If Mr I had been misled as he 
recalls, on balance, I consider it likely he would have arranged alternative cover  via a 
different business  after his first or second  claim.
If Mr I still believes  the policy terms werent  applied appropriately in 2011 or 2013, its still my 
view that he needs  to complain to Ageas  and ask for a formal response.  He can then return 
to us if he remains unhappy. I accept Letsure may have  been in involved in the handling of 
those claims, but the insurer still remains responsible for any claim decisions. The insurer 
was Groupama,  which is now part of Ageas.
my final decision
Im sorry  to hear about  Mr Is difficult  circumstances.  But for the reasons Ive set out above, 
and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0226231