K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale.  Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs D bought the policy at a meeting  in 1998 at the same time as taking a hire-purchase 
agreement. She was employed at the time as a sales assistant and had been there two 
years. Shes told us she was entitled  to less than three months  full sick pay and redundancy 
pay and didnt have  anything else to repay her hire-purchase loan with if she couldnt work. 
From what  Mrs D has told us, she was in good health and hadnt had any health issues.  
The PPI policy provided cover for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. For a successful disability or unemployment claim, it offered to 
pay the monthly repayment of Mrs Ds agreement.  The life cover would, subject to its terms, 
clear the balance on death.  AXA hasnt  been able to tell us the monthly  PPI premium but 
from what AXA has told us and what I have,  I think the premium was around £2.50 a month  
at the time. The premium  still had to be paid during a successful claim. AXA says Mrs D paid 
just over £40 in PPI premiums in total over the life of the policy.
Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf. Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Ds representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs D wouldnt have taken  the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Ds representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  AXA should have told Mrs D about  the 
poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs D and the impact  they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;  and
Ref: DRN04443022The information Mrs D received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs D disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN04443023Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
AXA was a member  of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992,  and set out standards of good  practice  for the
finance and leasing  industry. Section 4 of the code covered  Credit  Protection
Insurance. 
As Ive explained, AXA was a member of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code and its 
associated requirements.  The seller  but not AXA  was a member of the FLA and 
subscribed to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of AXA. 
So I am satisfied it is right I should take these codes  into account when deciding  what  is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of Mrs Ds case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  I am also required to take into account what  
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
AXA was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  guidance  
when considering Mrs Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs D with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN04443024-Whether AXA gave  Mrs D sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information  to enable  her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs D, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs D suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs D and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs D know she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs D has said she had no interest in PPI 
and has said it was just included as part of her package. I give Mrs Ds recollections  some 
weight. But I also bear in mind that she set these out for us around 20 years after the sales 
meeting  so it wouldnt be surprising if she didnt  recall the sale in detail. Also,  Ive nothing  
else to make me think that AXA wouldnt normally  have given customers like Mrs D a choice 
about the PPI at the time of Mrs Ds sale.
Mrs Ds credit agreement, which she signed to take the hire-purchase, had a separate  
Protection For Your Payments  section  where the PPI was offered  with a box to mark if 
the PPI was wanted. Next to this box it said: Yes,  I want my Account  covered by Payment 
Protection Insurance and above  the box it said: If you would like cover please ensure that 
your instructions are clearly indicated by a mark in the box. I think it likely  Mrs D wouldve 
known from all this that if she wanted the PPI the box for it should  be marked  and if she 
didnt want the PPI the box for it shouldnt be marked.
On Mrs Ds agreement,  the PPI box was marked. The mark in the box is printed, as are the 
other details  on the form like the details of what Mrs D was buying.  I think it likely the printed 
details reflect choices  Mrs D made before  the form was printed for her to sign at the meeting.
Mrs D hasnt said anything to make  me think she was pressured into opting  for the PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mrs D knew the policy  was optional 
and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did AXA provide advice?
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mrs D hasnt said advice was provided. 
With all this in mind, Im persuaded AXA didnt provide advice.  This means  AXA didnt have 
to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs D. 
Instead, AXA had to give Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the PPI, including  drawing to her attention 
and highlighting   in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy 
and significant  limitations and exclusions.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs D was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is the policy would protect her payments if she were unable  to 
Ref: DRN04443025work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. Ive 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs D would have taken the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
Also, the PPI part of Mrs Ds credit agreement said the PPI: covers your Account payments 
in the event of sickness, accident, involuntary  unemployment or loss of life  which  wouldve 
also given an indication  of what the PPI was for. It also said: Please debit my Account  with 
the relevant premium until further  notice  which wouldve also indicated it wasnt  free. Also, 
just below where the credit repayment  amounts were set out and above a place Mrs D 
signed, the agreement said: If you have Payment Protection Insurance  for your Account an 
additional payment will be required and will be notified to you on your statement.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  AXA gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs D agreed  to take the policy. 
So, based  on what I have,  I dont think AXA gave Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable her to make an informed choice about  whether to take the policy, 
including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ds representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ds. 
I have considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ds representative  considers  to be poor value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs D about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ds representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think it is unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs D has suggested.  And, taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mrs D? To what extent did Mrs D suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs D. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude she suffered 
Ref: DRN04443026loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not she would have 
still taken the policy,  had AXA done things  properly. 
Mrs D says she would not have taken it and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs D had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs D chose to take this policy. So I consider its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs D thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs D has suffered any loss or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not Mrs D knew she would have to pay something for 
the policy, it doesnt appear  AXA told her the exact  premium at the point she applied.  Having 
said that, I dont think  it likely  she wouldve taken  the policy  without having  some idea of the 
approximate cost. Also if, when she was informed of the actual cost on a statement (as the 
agreement indicated would be the case) or when she started paying for it, the cost had been 
significantly different to or at odds with her expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
Mrs D mightve  raised this with AXA at the time or reconsidered her decision. 
With this and all Ive said above in mind, overall Im not persuaded Mrs D wouldve found the 
PPI cost unacceptable if shed been given the exact  figure during the meeting in which  she 
agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  AXA made clear exactly  what Mrs D would  get back in return 
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely her expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her payments 
under the hire-purchase agreement)  were significantly different to what the PPI actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs D thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  that in the 12 months before the 
policy start Mrs D knew about or ought  reasonably to have  known about  or had sought or 
received advice or treatment for from any medical practitioner;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs D be stopped from doing 
her own job or any similar job which the insurer reasonably thought  she was or may 
reasonably become  qualified to do when considering her training, education and ability;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs D wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
For disability and unemployment the policy protected  payments for up to 12 months, 
rather than the remaining  loan term.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs D pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policy was not as 
Ref: DRN04443027good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs D from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  she wouldve been  
caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs D didnt have any pre-existing medical 
conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I think she still had some  good reasons 
to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs D might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs D 
from taking the policy,  Mrs D, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Mrs D had known she could only claim for disability if she were not only unable  to do her 
own job but also unable  to do any similar job the insurer reasonably  thought she was or may 
reasonably have become qualified to do when considering  her training, education and ability,  
this might have played into her thinking about what to do. And I accept  it may have  given her 
pause for thought - although its possible she may not have been overly  concerned  given 
that if she were unable (through  disability) to carry on her own occupation,  the chances that 
she would  be able to take up a similar  occupation  would also,  in all probability,  be limited.
AXA may not have  told Mrs D any claim she made would be limited to 12 months. This may 
have differed from what she expected and might have hoped for. But 12 months was longer  
than she wouldve received full sick pay and her redundancy  entitlement  was also likely 
significantly less than 12 months income. Taking everything into account, I consider it likely 
Mrs D wouldve still thought PPI that paid the repayments due under her agreement for up to 
12 months would  be of benefit if she couldnt work in the circumstances the policy  covered.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs D would still have taken the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if she were  unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. In the 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mrs D wouldve taken the policy in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN04443028I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs D would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs D 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs D believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs D in the position she wouldve been in if she had not 
bought the policy. Thats because, while I accept its possible  she would not have taken  the 
policy, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she wouldve still taken 
the policy had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
to conclude AXA should pay Mrs D compensation, as that would put her in a better  position 
than she wouldve been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.
Im also aware Mrs D thinks AXA misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of AXAs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mrs D, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1998 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ds representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mrs D and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that AXA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs D in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2021.
Ref: DRN04443029Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0444302