K821x#15complaint
Mrs O says that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited mishandled her car credit account  when she 
fell into arrears.
background
In January 2017, Mrs O entered into a conditional sales  agreement for a used car with 
Moneybarn. The agreement was for five years and Mrs O was required  to pay equal 
monthly instalments  to clear the outstanding credit and interest. If Mrs O missed any 
payments then Moneybarn had the right to terminate the agreement  and repossess the car.
Sadly, in October  2017 Mrs O suffered a close family bereavement  which meant she had 
to take time off from work.  This led to a drop in her income, which  meant she was unable 
to make the payments for the car. To put things right, Mrs O agreed  a payment plan with 
Moneybarn to clear the arrears over the next eight  months together  with making the usual 
monthly payments.
Unfortunately Mrs O didnt make any payments under the agreed plan. So Moneybarn  
sent her a number of emails,  letters and texts asking  she make contact  and warning her 
that the arrears were  building up.
Moneybarn then spoke  with Mrs O in December 2017.  She explained she had been  
abroad to attend  a funeral and would call back to set up another payment plan.
But Mrs O didnt contact Moneybarn, and a default notice was sent to her in January 
2018. Mrs O was also called by Moneybarn that month and again said she would call 
back later that evening. But she didnt do so.
In February 2018,  Mrs O called to make a payment to Moneybarn. She was told that the 
agreement was now with the Asset Management Team and she would  need  to talk to them. 
Mrs O told Moneybarn that she had sent it the death certificate  of her family member  to 
show this was the reason she hadnt been able to work, and had gone into arrears. She said 
she would  phone back later.
One week later Moneybarn called Mrs O. It explained that the account had been terminated 
and gave her options  about what she could now do. Mrs O said she didnt think  the account  
should have been closed  as she had suffered two family bereavements in close succession  
and had been unable to work  as shed been  helping her family. She said she had been told 
that the Bereavement Team would be in touch with her. This phone  call was followed up 
by an email from Moneybarn again setting out the options available  to Mrs O. These  options 
were for her to settle the finance in full, agree  to a Consent Order (so long as affordability  
was satisfied) or to voluntarily terminate  the agreement and have the car sold at auction.
Mrs O complained to Moneybarn about its decision to terminate the agreement. She 
said she didnt want to agree to the Consent  Order until her complaint had been 
investigated. Moneybarn  agreed to hold off on any action while  it investigated Mrs Os 
complaint.
In April 2018, Moneybarn completed its investigation and didnt uphold Mrs Os complaint. 
It said it had tried to contact Mrs O several times via texts, emails and phone calls but had 
no response. Twice Mrs O had said she would call back and failed to do so. Moneybarn 
Ref: DRN09327862said it didnt agree that Mrs O had been  told the Bereavement Team would call her as it 
didnt have one. It said it wasnt able to allow the build-up of arrears on agreement without 
a full understanding of Mrs Os financial situation  and she had failed to provide the 
information within the timescales  agreed. It said it was appropriate in the circumstances to 
terminate the credit  agreement and this was in line with the terms and conditions.
On the same  day that the final response letter was sent to Mrs O dismissing her complaint 
the car was repossessed and removed  from her property. Mrs O wasnt  aware her 
complaint had been concluded or that the car would be collected when this happened. She 
was distressed by the actions of Moneybarn and complained to this service.
Our adjudicator partially  upheld Mrs Os complaint. Moneybarn  told the investigator that 
usually its letter explaining that the complaint had been closed  and the car would now be 
collected would have been  received a few days before the car was actually collected. But 
due to an available slot with the team that repossessed the car this had happened 
quicker than usual. The investigator  said that Mrs O should have been notified about 
what was happening and this failure would have caused her unnecessary  distress and 
embarrassment. He said Moneybarn should pay Mrs O £150 compensation for this.
He also said that looking at the notes he thought it was likely that had Mrs O known her 
complaint had been closed she would have agreed  to sign the Consent Order  papers 
earlier as she wanted to keep the car. This would have meant the car wouldnt have 
needed to be removed.  So if there were costs charged to her for collecting the car from her 
home these  should  be deducted from her account.
However, the investigator also said he thought  Moneybarn had acted fairly and reasonably 
in terminating the agreement. Mrs O hadnt  made  contact  for some time and hadnt  called 
back when she said she would.
Moneybarn agreed  with our investigators  view and paid Mrs O the £150 compensation. 
But Mrs O disagrees as she is unhappy that a Consent Order has now been made as this 
has meant more costs for her to meet.
As the parties  couldnt agree the complaint has been passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision as Mrs O asked me to look at the Consent  Order that had been  made  when her 
credit agreement had fallen into arrears. This wasnt something Mrs O had originally asked 
the investigator to look at.
My provisional decision was along the following lines. Ive seen a copy of the original 
agreement and also of the Consent Order signed  by Mrs O in April 2018.
Under the agreement, if Mrs O failed to make payments then Moneybarn was entitled to 
repossess the car. It was agreed that Mrs O defaulted and that arrears on her account  
grew from October 2017.
I was sorry that Mrs O had two close family losses in quick  succession.  I appreciated this 
wouldve been both a shock and a very distressing time for her. It also led to her not being  
able to work which had an impact on her finances  and caused  her to default  on this 
agreement.
While I could  understand that at the time this credit agreement wouldnt have been a 
priority, Id seen  that there had been numerous efforts by Moneybarn  to make contact with 
Ref: DRN09327863her. Mrs O didnt  respond, and when she did in December and January she then didnt call 
back as she said she would. Moneybarn  also sent her a default notice which  explained 
the consequences of not paying.
Mrs O said she was told that after providing the death certificate that the Bereavement 
Team would  call her back,  but Moneybarn said it had no such team  in place and her 
account was being handled  by the Asset Management Team.
This service expects consumers to be treated with care and respect  when they struggle to 
make repayments. Looking at all the efforts made by Moneybarn to make contact with Mrs 
O I was satisfied it had acted appropriately when  it decided to terminate the agreement. I 
believed it wouldve been irresponsible for Moneybarn to allow the account  to have built-up 
further arrears in this situation.
However, its handling of the actual repossession of the car wouldve inevitably caused Mrs 
O unnecessary distress. Moneybarn had accepted  that Mrs O shouldve been given 
advance warning that her complaint had been closed and the car was about  to be 
collected. It had agreed that £150  compensation to Mrs O for the way that was handled 
was fair. Looking at the impact this would have had on Mrs O, I was satisfied  that was fair 
and reasonable amount.
Mrs O agreed  to sign the Consent  Order  in April 2018 and the order  was formally made at 
the County Court in June  2018. This Order allowed Mrs O to keep the car so long as she 
made monthly payments that covered the outstanding credit amount. This Order  was to last 
for a little under four years. If she failed to make a payment then Moneybarn was entitled to 
take the car back.
 
A Consent  Order is a court order and so isnt something I could ask to be amended  
or overturned. Nor could I interfere with it.
I appreciated Mrs O was unhappy that Moneybarn  had obtained  this Order, as it incurred 
extra costs  and the monthly amount  Mrs O had to pay was now higher than originally set 
under the credit agreement. But a Consent Order could only be made with agreement  of 
both parties, and Mrs O had signed the relevant paperwork. Shed agreed  to the monthly  
payments and also to paying the costs  of the Order itself. The payments were  set after 
looking at Mrs Os income and outgoings. Mrs O had been free to decline to sign the 
Order.
Id seen that Moneybarn gave Mrs O three options.  I appreciated that all of the options 
(paying the credit amount  of in full, entering  into a Consent  Order  or voluntarily terminating 
the agreement) werent particularly beneficial to Mrs O as theyd all involved taking on extra 
debt. But the Consent Order allowed Mrs O to keep the car and so I could understand why 
she wouldve found this to be the best and most  suitable option of the three.
As Mrs O had defaulted on her credit  agreement,  I couldnt reasonably say that 
Moneybarn shouldnt have offered  her the option of the Consent Order.
 
Looking at the evidence  I intended to partially uphold Mrs Os complaint about 
Moneybarns handling of her account. However,  I wasnt going to ask it to do more than 
pay Mrs O the £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused to her by 
removing the car when  it did, and to waive any charges  for removing the car (if it hasnt 
done so). I understand that the compensation has already been paid by Moneybarn.
Ref: DRN09327864Moneybarn said it agreed with my provisional  decision. Mrs O hasnt responded. So 
neither party  has asked me to look at anything again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my view and for the reasons given above Im partially upholding Mrs Os 
complaint. Im asking  Moneybarn to pay Mrs O £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her by removing the car when it did. And to waive  the cars removal  
charges if it had passed these on to Mrs O.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im partially  upholding Mrs Os complaint. Im asking 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  to pay Mrs O £150  compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to her for removing the car when it did. I understand that this amount 
has been paid.  Im also asking Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to waive any charges for removing 
the car if it passed  these on to Mrs O.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0932786