K820x#14complaint
Mr S says that in 2013 he purchased a share through Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited (HL). He complains  he was never told that there  would be any charges 
for holding  that share. HL has since deducted charges for holding  the share  which included 
selling share  holdings to pay the charges without any notice.
background
Mr S complained to HL but it did not uphold the complaint.  It said that its terms and 
conditions applying to Mr Ss holdings changed in 2014 to include a paper service fee and it 
wrote to all its clients to inform them of this. It said it had written to Mr S to tell him this on 15 
January 2014.  The fee was applied from March 2014. It said the fee was for the provision of 
a hardcopies of the annual investment reports.  
HL said that it included a covering letter with the first investment report issued  after the 
change to its terms and conditions, which set out that its clients could switch to a paperless 
service to avoid the paper  service fee. It said that original  terms and conditions  that Mr S had 
agreed to when he opened his account  did set out that it could change its terms and 
conditions over time. HL did however offer to waive Mr Ss outstanding fees as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and an investigator considered  it. She did not 
uphold the complaint. She said that HL had sent a correctly addressed letter  to Mr S in 2014 
explaining the changes being made  and confirmed  that again  in an investment report issued 
to Mr S in May 2014. She said the charge applied was for the issue  of paper statements and 
this had been applied correctly. The sale of holdings in the absence  of sufficient cash on the 
account was normal and had been set out in HLs documents. 
Mr S did not agree  and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said too much 
weight had been attached  to HLs response  without enough consideration for a retail client. 
He also said that he was led to the investment account by a misleading financial promotion 
by HL - when it was advertising stockbroking  facilities for £10 per trade and no other fees. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I find that I agree with the 
investigators findings and for the same  reasons. 
HL can reasonably amend its terms and conditions and it did so here in response to a 
change in regulation. 
I have seen a HL sample letter from January 2014 which explains that, as a result in a 
change of regulations, HL was making changes  to its charges. It said it was introducing  a 
change for some documents issued by post  which  were set out in an enclosed booklet. 
In the Quick Guide  to the Changes guide that was sent, it is set out clearly that a charge will 
apply for paper statements. The detailed  Changes to the Vantage  Service brochure set out 
that if there  was insufficient cash in the account then a holding  might need to be sold to pay 
for the charges. It also reiterated that a fee would apply for sending paper statements and 
what that fee would be. 
Ref: DRN03508012I realise that Mr S says that he did not receive a letter with enclosures notifying  him of the 
changes to the charges in 2014. But the evidence is that such a letter  was issued and to Mr 
Ss correct address.  So I believe that HL acted  reasonably in making Mr S aware  of the 
change. Furthermore  it did notify  of the change in its investment  reports  which provide 
another opportunity for the account holder  to act. I have seen Mr Ss report of May 2014, 
which is correctly addressed to him, which sets out clearly that a fee will apply for postal 
investment reports,  and how to avoid this. 
Whilst Mr S says HL did not notify  him before  it sold a holding to pay for charges, I do not 
believe it was required to do that, having  set out and communicated  that it may have to do 
so in order to pay charges.  As the investigator  said, this practise is not unusual. So I do not 
believe HL acted unreasonably in selling  holdings in order to pay the charges that it had 
previously notified  to Mr S. The deduction  of the charges over time was set out in Mr Ss 
investment reports that were issued to him. 
Mr S has referred to a misleading financial promotion but that promotion has not been  
supplied. It may well be that, originally, a paper  fee or other charge was not made for holding 
shares. But as I have said, HL can amend its terms and conditions. I have not seen evidence 
that it said it charges  would never  change. In any event this was not part of Mr Ss original  
complaint. If Mr S believes that he was given a misleading financial promotion then he can 
refer that issue to HL so that it can consider it as a new complaint.   
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0350801