K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs D payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mr and Mrs Ds comments.  However, Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
Mr and Mrs D say we were never made  aware that this policy was optional.  We felt 
heavily pressurised into taking out this policy, which  now clearly was totally  inappropriate 
and unsuitable  to our circumstances. However, at least looking at the documents,  I dont 
see that the PPI was presented as compulsory. And this did all happen over 22 years 
ago, and I wouldnt expect  someone to recall  in detail everything that happened so long 
ago. So it would  not be fair, without  some other evidence of what  the Bank  of Scotland  
representative said, to decide they put unfair pressure on Mr and Mrs D. If I am to be fair, 
I would  need stronger supporting evidence. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, but it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Mr and Mrs D received any employer sick pay, and potentially for 
longer. It would have  paid unemployment  benefits in addition  to any redundancy pay. 
And it would  have put off the time when they would need to fall back  on any savings  or 
other means they may have had for paying  the mortgage. This all would have put Mr and 
Mrs D in a more  secure position,  if they eventually lost income due to long term sickness 
or unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to suggest  they couldnt  afford  the PPI 
when they took it out. So I think the PPI would have been potentially  useful. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland could have explained the costs and benefits of the policy 
better than it did. But even if it had, I think Mr and Mrs D would have still bought  it.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have been affected by any of these. Its likely 
they were eligible  for the policy, and theyd be paying for it monthly, so they could cancel 
it at any time without further  cost if their situation  changed.
Ref: DRN05516422my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0551642