K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about advice he received from TenetConnect Limited to take out a 
Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC)  plan. He says that he shouldve  
been advised to purchase added years of service through his employers pension  scheme  
instead.
Mr H is being represented in his complaint by a third party.  For ease of reading  the 
decision Ill refer to all representations as having  been made by Mr H.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April 2020.  A copy is attached for 
reference but in summary  I said that: 
I was minded to conclude the FSAVC had been  mis-sold. 
I thought that if Mr H been given all the relevant information during the sale, he was 
more likely to have  opted for the in-house AVC option, as opposed to purchasing 
added years. And from what  Id seen I didnt think that wouldve been an unsuitable 
recommendation. 
Mr Hs contributions to the FSAVC  plan remained  at the same level throughout 
until they stopped in 2014. If hed opted  for added years, the amount he paid 
would have increased as his salary  increased.  Although I accepted that it was 
likely Mr H could  have afforded Added Years at the time of the sale,  I thought  it 
was unlikely he wouldve been prepared for his contributions to rise in line with 
his salary, given he didnt make any increases. And I didnt think  it would have 
been long before  the contribution rate it seems Mr H was prepared  to pay, 
wouldve been insufficient to cover the cost of added years.
Theres only limited documentation  from the point of sale so its not possible to be 
sure of Mr Hs attitude to risk at the time. Hes said he wanted to take minimal or 
low risk. But I thought the situation may have  been  different  in 1995 as hed opted  
to invest 100% of his FSAVC in the Stewardship fund. I also thought it was 
important to note that Mr H had said he wanted  something low risk; he wasnt risk 
adverse. At age 26, with many years until retirement, I thought the forecasted 
returns are likely  to have made  AVCs a more attractive prospect than paying for 
relatively expensive  Added Years.
I intended to ask Tenet to carry out a comparison  following the Financial Conduct  
Authoritys FSAVC  review guidance  on a charges only  basis. And if the 
calculation demonstrated a loss, the compensation amount should, if possible, be 
paid into Mr Hs pension plan. 
The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. 
But the compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict 
with any existing protection or allowance. 
Although Mr H has said that he doesnt have  any Lifetime Allowance protection in 
place, this is something that should  be confirmed before settlement is made.
Ref: DRN04860832If a payment into the pension isnt possible or if it will have protection or 
allowance implications,  I said it should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump 
sum after making a notional deduction to allow for tax that would otherwise 
be paid in retirement.
As Mr H has said its expected that he will exceed the Lifetime allowance,  I said this 
would need to be taken into account  if the redress is paid directly to him. And due 
to the size of his pension, it seems likely that such a payment  would be subject to 
the 55% LTA charge.  So, if a direct  payment is made to Mr H, Tenet should make 
a notional deduction of 55% from any loss identified. This would adequately reflect 
the position that Mr H will find himself in at retirement, if the Lifetime allowance has 
been exceeded. I explained that this was based  on an assumption that Mr H will be 
a 40% tax payer in retirement. If Mr H doesnt believe this to be the case, he should  
provide evidence to support what he believes his likely  tax position in retirement  will 
be. For example,  details  from his employers pension scheme of what his likely  
pension income  will be in retirement.
Tenet responded to my provisional decision to confirm that it accepts  my findings.  
Mr H responded and confirmed that he didnt agree with my provisional findings. He 
maintained that he would have bought  added  years for the following reasons:
There was no reason to recommend an FSAVC because he fitted  perfectly for a 
recommendation for added years. He was most likely going to be in the same  
employment with good prospects for salary increases.
The FSAVC Review Guidance from May 2001  was brought about because  
FSAVCs were being mis-sold to clients with a profile that matches Mr H. The 
Review at the time preferred, where  possible, with such  clients to put them back 
in a position  they would have been if they had purchased added years. 
The mechanism for loss calculation for added years will take into account  that 
Mr H hasnt increased his premiums and is therefore a fairer method of 
calculation for him.
Tenet was further at fault for not recommending an indexed premium  that goes 
up with RPI and not attempting to give further reviews; this was culpability on the 
part of the adviser and not Mr H as to why the premium was not increased. 
Mr H has no time or inclination for risk taking and, had he been informed correctly 
at the time of the sale of the difference in risk, he wouldnt have chosen the in-
house AVC, rather  than a pension that was guaranteed. 
The assessment  has not given sufficient  weight to the differences in risk 
associated with added years as opposed  to AVCs.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive taken account of the further 
Ref: DRN04860833submissions provided by Mr H. Having done  so, I remain of the view that the FSAVC was 
mis-sold and that had Mr H received suitable  advice, he wouldve opted to join his 
employers in-house  AVC arrangement. Ive explained why below. 
Firstly, I think its important to clarify that the FSAVC review  that was completed in the early  
2000s, was specifically for individuals that were  members  of schemes whose in-house 
options for topping  up retirement benefits  were  subsidised by the scheme. Mr H was a 
member of the NHS Superannuation Scheme, and, like most public sector  schemes, the 
options for topping  up the pension werent subsidised.  
The model guidance issued in May 2000 set out the requirements for the review and Annexe  
A contained a list of the occupational schemes  covered  by the guidance. This was 
essentially all private sector companies  rather than public sector bodies like the NHS. So, I 
dont agree with Mr Hs comments that the review was bought  about  as a result  of FSAVCs 
being mis-sold to individuals with profiles  that matched his. 
The lack of sales paperwork in this case means that I am unable to say with any certainty  
what was discussed  with Mr H at the time of the advice. 
I do appreciate that Mr H believes he was a perfect  fit for an added  years recommendation. 
But in deciding which  of the in-house arrangements  he might  have chosen back  in 1995, I 
need to balance what he says he would have  done with what  the most suitable advice would 
have been at the time. In my opinion, its more likely that he wouldve chosen the AVC rather 
than the added years option. 
One of the main differences  between added years and AVCs is the risk they present. 
Generally, at the time of the sale, added years  wouldve been considered suitable for 
someone that was risk adverse.  Mr H has now said that he has no time or inclination for risk 
taking. And, had he been informed correctly at the time of the sale of the difference in risk, 
he wouldnt  have chosen the in-house  AVC, rather than a pension that was guaranteed.  
But I think its important to note that Mr H expected to remain a member  of his employers 
pension for the longer term. And in particular, if he expected to be a member until retirement  
he wouldve built up significant pension provision. So I dont think risking  the loss of a 
minimal number of years in the scheme  versus potentially building  up additional provision in 
an investment based environment  presented material  risks. These matters need  to be 
considered in the context of the time and not with the benefit of hindsight.  
Given reasonable expectations  for investment returns and annuity rates in 1995, I dont think 
paying into the in-house AVC fund would have appeared to present material  risks compared 
to buying added years. And with the guaranteed pension Mr H could already expect to 
receive, I think he had the capacity  to take some  risk with this money.  
Its disappointing that the actual investment returns and annuity rates have fallen. But this 
wasnt expected  at the time. 
In addition, Ive also thought again  about the costs involved with both options. Added  years 
would have required Mr H to commit to extra costs quite early on in his career.  I appreciate 
that he feels that Tenet is at fault because  it didnt recommend that his premium increased in 
line with his salary or that it didnt meet with him regularly to provide further advice. But 
again, with the limited  paperwork available,  I dont know  what  was discussed.  
Ref: DRN04860834There is a section on the application form, which Mr H has signed,  where  the option to 
increase contributions can be selected. So I think its likely that this option  wouldve been 
discussed. However, its been crossed through which suggests to me that Mr H wasnt 
prepared for his contributions to increase. And he initially  opted to contribute  £66.60  gross  
per month, which was just over 3% of his salary, when the limits  in place at the time 
wouldve permitted him to contribute up to 9%. So as I said in my provisional decision,  it 
doesnt seem likely that he wouldve been  prepared  for his contributions to increase above  
what he was initially paying. 
Given the above, I think its more likely than not, that Mr H wouldve  opted for the in-house 
AVC option rather  than buying  added  years.  
putting things right
Tenet should carry out a comparison following the Financial Conduct Authoritys FSAVC 
review guidance  on a charges only basis.  This means Mr H wont  be disadvantaged if it 
turns out hes paid more charges for his FSAVC than he would have incurred through 
the in-house AVC option.
Tenet should incorporate the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC  review guidance wasnt intended  to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark  index 
is used to calculate the difference  in charges and (if applicable)  any loss of employer 
matching contributions or subsidised  benefits.  In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor  
Growth Total  Return Index provides  the closest correlation to the CAPS mixed with 
property index. So where the calculation  requires ongoing charges in an investment-based 
FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January  2005, Tenet should use the CAPS 
mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth  
Total Return Index  thereafter.
If the calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should  if possible be 
paid into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and 
any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Mr H has said that he doesnt 
have any LTA protection in place but this is something that should be confirmed before 
settlement is made.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or if it will have protection or allowance  
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making  a 
notional deduction  to allow for tax that would otherwise  be paid in retirement.
Mr H has said its expected that he will exceed  the Lifetime allowance. So this will need to 
be taken into account if the redress is paid directly  to Mr H. I say this because  a direct 
payment to Mr H would effectively represent a payment from his pension.
Due to the size of his pension, it seems likely that such a payment would be subject to 
the 55% LTA charge. For these  reasons,  if a direct payment is made  to Mr H, Tenet 
should make  a notional deduction of 55% from any loss identified.  This would adequately 
reflect the position that Mr H will find himself in at retirement, if the Lifetime  allowance 
has been exceeded.
Ref: DRN04860835my final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint against TenetConnect Limited. I direct 
TenetConnect Limited to conduct  a loss assessment of Mr Hs FSAVC policy on a charges 
only basis. If a loss is established, pay redress to Mr H in accordance with what  Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN04860836Copy of provisional  decision dated  28 April 2020
complaint
Mr H has complained about  advice he received from TenetConnect Limited to take out a Free 
Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution  (FSAVC) plan.  He says that he shouldve been 
advised to purchase added years of service through his employers pension scheme instead.
Mr H is being represented  in his complaint by a third party. For ease of reading the decision Ill refer 
to all representations as having been made by Mr H.
background
Mr H met with an independent  financial  adviser (IFA)  in 1995  to discuss his pension arrangements. 
The IFA was an appointed representative of TenetConnect Limited (Tenet).
At the time of advice, Mr H was 26 years old, employed as a doctor and was a member of his 
employers occupational pension scheme.
Following the meeting, Mr H started  making gross monthly contributions of £66.66 to an FSAVC 
plan. He continued to contribute at this rate until 2014, when he was informed that he was at risk 
of exceeding his Lifetime  allowance (LTA).
In 2018, Mr H complained  to Tenet that the plan had been mis-sold. Tenet  didnt consider the merits 
of the complaint as it thought  it had been made too late under the rules  that apply.
Mr H didnt agree so he referred the matter  to our service  for consideration. Another ombudsman 
here decided the complaint  was one this service could consider.
One of our investigators reviewed the merits of the complaint. He thought Tenet had failed to notify 
Mr H of the options he had with his employer  for topping up his pension provision. And as Tenet  
was able to provide  advice on all options,  he felt that it wouldve been more appropriate for it to have 
advised Mr H to have purchased added years with his employer.
The main reasons for the investigator reaching  this conclusion were:
Mr H had 34 years  until retirement  and it was unlikely  hed change  career.  So, it was 
reasonable for the adviser to assume that Mr H would remain  with the same employer.
Mr H was contributing around £800 per year to the FSAVC and it was likely he was in a 
position to accept  the costs involved in purchasing added years.
Mr H could reasonably expect good salary increases in his career.
While  the added  years  option wouldve  been less flexible than Mr Hs employers in- 
house AVC or the FSAVC, theres  nothing  to show that Mr H needed flexibility.
Added years were  generally recommended for someone who was young and at the 
beginning of their career, where their income is expected to increase significantly,  which 
was the position Mr H was in at the time of advice.
Although Mr Hs attitude to risk at the time wasnt recorded, when  given options of 
low/medium/high risk on the complaint questionnaire, he selected low. This was the most  
risk adverse  option he couldve chosen.
Mr H accepted the investigators opinion, but Tenet didnt  agree. In summary, Tenet said that Mr H 
was young and as such would have required greater flexibility than added years.  It wouldve  been 
likely that hed have looked to move to the private sector and as such  added years would not have 
been the most suitable recommendation.
Ref: DRN04860837And Mr H has acknowledged that hes hit his LTA limit and therefore any potential  redress should  
take this into account by reflecting the 55% tax due.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im minded  to uphold the complaint but for different 
reasons to the investigator. Ill explain  why.
Mr H received advice from an IFA. This means that, rather  than just considering the FSAVC option, 
the adviser was also required to review,  and if appropriate recommend,  the options  Mr H had 
through his employer  for topping  up his pension.
At the time of advice, the then regulator, the Personal  Investment Authority (PIA), had said that an 
IFA should:
know its client;
not make a recommendation unless it believed, having carried out reasonable care in 
forming its belief, that no transaction  in any other such investment  (of which it ought 
reasonably to be aware)  would be likely  to secure the objectives  of the consumer 
more advantageously;  and
take reasonable  care to include in any recommendation to a person, other than a 
professional investor,  sufficient information to provide that person with an adequate  
and reasonable  basis for deciding  whether to accept the recommendation.
There is very limited  paperwork available from the time of the sale.  So, its difficult  for me to know 
exactly what  was discussed.  And its not clear what investigations, if any, the adviser  did into the 
in-house options  available to Mr H.
Its generally considered that the in-house  additional voluntary contribution (AVC) option through  
the employer is a more  cost-effective way of topping up a pension. This is because the charges  
tend to be lower than those associated with an FSAVC. And without any evidence to show that a 
comparison between  the charges was completed, or that Mr H was made  aware  of the in-house 
options, Im minded to conclude that the FSAVC was unsuitable.
Our investigator also thought the FSAVC was unsuitable and concluded that had he been 
advised properly,  and been made aware  of all of his options, Mr H wouldve  purchased added 
years through  his employers scheme. Tenet doesnt agree so Ive considered this aspect  further.
I acknowledge that with hindsight Mr H might have been better off if hed purchased added  years  
as investment returns have failed to live up to expectations. But I cant safely say he wouldve 
taken added years in 1995.
Mr H started his FSAVC in 1995 when he was 26, and hed been employed since 1992. I dont know 
exactly when he joined his employers scheme. But the paperwork shows that his usual retirement  
age was 60. So, it seems likely he wouldve only needed around three extra  years to achieve  the full 
40 years service by his normal retirement age.
Ref: DRN04860838Tenet has said that as Mr H was young he was likely  to have  changed to the private sector and 
therefore wouldve required  more flexibility  than added years provided. I dont agree with this 
particular argument.  Although Mr H was at the start of his career, I think it wouldve been appropriate 
for the adviser to assume that hed remain with the same employer, or at least  belong  to the same 
pension scheme, for much  of his career.
However, in order to buy added  years, Mr H wouldve needed  to commit  to a fixed  percentage 
contribution from his salary. This means the amount hed pay would rise each time his salary 
went up. I dont have details  of Mr Hs salary, apart from a record it was £25,000 in 1995.  But 
given that hes now at risk of exceeding the LTA in retirement, Ive assumed his salary  has 
increased over time.  Yet, Mr Hs contributions to the FSAVC plan remained at the same level 
throughout until they stopped in 2014.  So, although I think Mr H couldve afforded the cost of 
added years at the start, it doesnt seem likely he wouldve  been prepared  for his contributions to 
rise in line with his salary. And its likely that it wouldnt have been long before the contribution 
rate it seems  Mr H was prepared  to pay, wouldve been insufficient to cover  the cost of added  
years.
As theres  only limited  documentation from the point  of sale, its not possible to be sure of Mr Hs 
attitude to risk at the time.  I appreciate that more recently he has confirmed that he wanted to take 
minimal or low risk. But in 1995 retirement was sufficiently far away so his attitude may have been 
slightly different.  I think this is supported by the fact that Mr H opted to invest  100%  of his FSAVC in 
the Stewardship fund.
Mr H says he selected this fund because the adviser told him it was low risk. But given that the sale 
was more than 25 years  ago, its possible  that Mr Hs recollections of what  he was told may have 
faded with the passage of time. The stewardship  fund was an ethical fund that invested in companies 
with high standards  of corporate governance. And I think its more  likely this fund was selected by Mr 
H after a discussion around the various investment options available.
In any event, I think its important  to note that Mr H has said he wanted something low risk; he 
wasnt risk adverse. At age 26, with many  years until retirement, I think the forecasted returns are 
likely to have made AVCs  a more attractive prospect than paying for relatively  expensive Added 
Years.
For these  reasons, Im likely to conclude  that even if Mr H and the advisor  had researched into the 
in-house options  available at the time of the sale, Mr H is more likely  to have preferred  the in-house  
AVC option, as opposed to added  years. And from what I can see, that wouldnt have been an 
unsuitable recommendation.  I say this as I think most people who were prepared to take some risk, 
even minimal,  wouldnt have  chosen an option which looked relatively  more expensive when 
compared to what AVCs  wouldve been  predicted to achieve at that time.
Putting things right
I intend  to ask Tenet to carry out a comparison following the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
FSAVC review guidance  on a charges  only basis. This means Mr H wont be disadvantaged if it 
turns out hes paid more charges for his FSAVC than he would have incurred through the in-
house AVC option.
Tenet should incorporate the amendment  below  to take into account  that data for the CAPS  mixed 
with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
Ref: DRN04860839The FSAVC review  guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses  arising solely 
from poor investment returns  in the FSAVC  funds, which is why a benchmark index is used to 
calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching contributions or 
subsidised benefits. In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth  Total Return  Index provides 
the closest  correlation to the CAPS mixed with property  index. So, where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 2005, 
Tenet should use the CAPS  mixed with property  index up to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK 
Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  amount should if possible be paid into Mr 
Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect  of charges  and any available tax relief. 
The compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance. Mr H has said that he doesnt have any LTA protection in place, but this is 
something that should be confirmed before settlement is made.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or if it will have protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making  a notional  
deduction to allow for tax that would otherwise be paid in retirement.
Mr H has said its expected that he will exceed  the Lifetime allowance.  So, this will need to be taken 
into account  if the redress  is paid directly to Mr H. I say this because  a direct payment to Mr H would  
effectively represent a payment from his pension.
Due to the size of his pension, it seems likely  that such a payment would be subject to the 55% 
LTA charge. In saying  this Ive assumed that Mr H will be a 40% tax payer  in retirement. If he 
doesnt believe this to be the case,  he should provide evidence to support what he believes his 
tax position will be. For example, details from his employers pension scheme of what his likely  
pension income will be in retirement.
For these  reasons, if a direct payment is made to Mr H, Tenet  should make a notional  deduction  
of 55% from any loss identified. This would adequately reflect the position  that Mr H will find 
himself in at retirement, if the Lifetime allowance has been  exceeded.
my provisional  decision
For the reason  Ive explained, Im currently minded  to conclude that the FSAVC was mis- sold.  
Subsequent to any further submissions that may be received, I intend to ask TenetConnect Limited 
to calculate redress in line with the FCAs guidance on a charges only basis.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr H to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0486083