K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that MBNA Limited wont refund to her the money that she paid for some 
skin treatment. Her complaint is made against  MBNA under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. 
background
Mrs H used her MBNA credit card in October 2017 to pay £210 to a clinic for some  skin 
treatment. Shed also made payments of £40 in September 2017  and £250  earlier  in October  
2017 to the clinic using a different card. She claimed a refund in January 2018 from the clinic 
of the money  that shed paid for the treatment  and she claimed a refund from MBNA under 
section 75 in May 2018 because she said that the treatment had been mis-sold to her. It paid 
her £50 because  of its delay in responding to her complaint. But Mrs H wasnt satisfied with 
MBNAs response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He wasnt  satisfied 
that the available evidence demonstrated that a breach of contract  or misrepresentation had 
occurred. He said that the evidence available indicated  that Mrs H wouldve signed 
disclaimers and that she consented to the procedure after reading that results  aren't 
guaranteed and that more  than one treatment may be required.
Mrs H has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that:
customers were  coerced into having  treatment by false  promises that it would work 
after one treatment  - which isnt true and other reputable companies dont state that;
she told the clinic that she wasnt happy with the result and they said that it takes 
time which again isnt true;
the photos that the clinic uses are stock images  and arent of its salon;
it doesnt allow reviews due to the number of customers who are unhappy with their 
treatments;
this clinic is based in a store room above  a hairdressing salon  and is a con  and the 
companys details on its website are different  to those at Companies  House; and
staff arent sufficiently trained.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint about  MBNA, I 
must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the clinic 
and that MBNAs  response to her claim under  section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not 
determining the outcome  of Mrs Hs claim under  section 75 as only a court  would be able to 
do that.
The clinics website says: Due to the nature of none invasive treatments associated with our 
company, We can not always guarantee results.  Mrs H accepts that she signed the clinics 
terms and conditions (though she says that she was rushed into signing them). They say 
Ref: DRN03402722that the customer should sign only when  theyre happy to proceed and have discussed the 
treatment with their specialist. And they say:
You are signing to sate that you understand and accept that  [the treatments] not 
an exact science  - and cannot guarantee an exact  shrinkage result and individual 
healing process; and: You  may be require to return for additional treatments before 
your overall procedure is deemed  [complete]  and payment for any additional work (if 
applicable) will be agreed prior to the treatment commencing.
Mrs H signed the terms and conditions and Im not persuaded  that theres enough evidence 
to show that she was coerced into signing them. Mrs H paid for two sessions of treatment at 
the clinic   she paid for the first session using  a different card and only paid for the second 
session using her MBNA credit card. She says that she hadnt  seen any noticeable results 
from the first treatment but she then paid for and went ahead with the second treatment. 
Although I can understand Mrs Hs disappointment that the treatment hasnt led to a 
noticeable improvement in her skin, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show  
that theres been  a breach  of contact by the clinic or that Mrs H was induced into the contract 
by a misrepresentation. 
Mrs H has made a number of comments about the clinic and its business. But MBNA would 
only be liable to Mrs H under section 75 if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the clinic  about  the treatment that it was to provide to her. And Im not 
persuaded that shes provided enough evidence to show  that theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the clinic about  that treatment.
MBNA has paid £50 to Mrs H because of its delay in responding to her complaint. I consider 
that to be fair and reasonable.  But I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require MBNA to refund to Mrs H any of the money  that she paid to 
the clinic  for the treatment   or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0340272