K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a regular  premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with a flexi-loan.
background
In 2001 Mrs L took out a flexi-loan with HSBC. Its unclear as to how the sale took place  
she said it was in one of its branches  but, at the same time, it sold her a regular premium 
PPI policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs L disagreed, so the case  
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mrs Ls case. 
HSBC had to explain  to Mrs L that the PPI was optional  and get her agreement to take it. I 
cant say for sure what happened since HSBC doesnt have much  information from the time 
of the sale. Although I dont find that surprising  given how long ago the sale took place. 
Instead, HSBCs provided sample  documents it says are the same  or similar to the ones 
Mrs L would  have seen  around the time of the sale. These include a sample  CREDITOR 
PROTECTION DECLARATION which asked  the customer to sign separately to confirm  
theyd decided to take PPI. I think its likely  the documents  Mrs L would  have seen were  the 
same as the sample  or similar.
Overall, I think HSBC  would have made Mrs L aware that the PPI was optional and that 
shed have agreed to take it out before it was added.
Ive assessed  this complaint on the basis HSBC  recommended  PPI to Mrs L. That meant it 
should have looked into whether its recommendation was suitable  for her. I dont know if 
HSBC did that but I think the recommendation was suitable in any case because:
From  what Ive seen of her circumstances,  Mrs L was eligible for the policy.  And she 
wasnt affected by the main policy exclusions  or restrictions. 
The policy would have paid the loan repayments  for up to 12 months if Mrs L had lost 
her job or become too sick to work.  Mrs L wouldnt have received enhanced  sick pay 
or redundancy pay from her employer. And, although she says she could have relied  
on help from family,  such assistance  wasnt guaranteed  unlike the PPI benefits. So 
I think the policy offered her valuable protection.
The policy premium was payable  each month, so the PPI offered flexibility in that 
Mrs L could have  cancelled it at any time if she felt it no longer met her needs. 
HSBC also had to give Mrs L enough  information  for her to decide if the policy  was suitable.  
Its not clear exactly what information  HSBC  gave Mrs L, or how well that was explained.  
Ref: DRN05766552But, even  if HSBC didnt  tell Mrs L everything  it should have,  for the same  reasons I think  the 
PPI was right for her, I dont think better  information would have stopped her from buying it.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mrs Ls lost out because  of how HSBC  sold her 
the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0576655