K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about the way an escape of water claim under his home insurance 
policy has been handled by Covea Insurance plc.
background
In 2016 Mr P made a home emergency  claim to Covea for an escape  of water.  It sent a 
plumber to his property to carry out repairs. Covea said the ball valve within a water  tank 
had failed, allowing  the tank to overflow.  Mr P said he was led to believe  that the plumber 
had repaired  the fault since the water supply was reconnected.  Covea then reinstated  the 
property. 
In 2017 Mr P contacted Covea again as hed had a further escape  of water from the tank in 
his attic which had caused a lot of damage. He said the leak was in the same area as the 
previous one. He complained to Covea  that the second escape of water had been caused 
by Coveas poor workmanship on the original  claim.  He was unhappy that his loft insulation  
hadnt been replaced as specified in Coveas  schedule of works.  Mr P also complained that 
in December 2017 his insurance premium had increased by about 40% following the second 
escape of water.
Covea explained  the reason for the premium increase was mainly  due to the loss of Mr Ps 
no claims discount and partly for reasons unconnected  with the claim. It accepted that the 
second leak had been caused by human error  but said it couldnt amend its records  to show 
only one claim because  it wasnt  clear  that its contractor had caused the second leak.
Mr P brought his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He thought 
the second leak had been caused by inadequate  handling of Mr Ps first claim and that 
Covea should  put Mr P into the position he would have  been in if it had carried  out a proper 
repair during the first claim. He also said Covea  should pay compensation of £350 to Mr P 
for the trouble and upset  it had caused him. Since  Covea didnt agree, the matter  has been  
referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that the first leak was caused by the ball valve  failing,  
allowing the water  tank to overflow. Its also not in dispute that the second  leak was caused  
by the ball valve  in the water tank not being  fitted properly. But theres  some  dispute about 
whose fault the second  leak was. 
Covea said after the first leak its home emergency plumber didnt carry out any repairs apart  
from isolating the water supply to the water tank. It said the contractor it used to repair  the 
water damage didnt carry out any repairs to the ball valve  either.
Mr P said it was difficult to understand what the home  emergency  plumber was doing due to 
language difficulties. He understood that a washer sealing the mains water  entry  to the ball 
valve had failed and his wife was shown  a broken washer by the plumber. He said the 
plumber couldnt  have isolated  the water supply to the tank because  he left them with a 
normal water  supply.
Ref: DRN03018122Mr Ps account is supported by evidence from Coveas loss adjuster in its business file. He 
said Covea had appointed the home  emergency contractor to repair the ball valve. A note on 
the file after the second leak said ball cock was only replaced  last year by the Home  
Emergency contractors after a similar  leak.
On balance I think its more likely  than not that Coveas home emergency plumber fitted the 
ball valve incorrectly, thus causing  the second  leak. Mr P was entitled  to expect that the 
home emergency plumber sent by Covea would carry out a reasonable repair  provided  that 
the cost didnt exceed the sum insured  of £1,500.  Since I believe its liable for causing the 
second leak, it doesnt seem to me fair for Covea  to have treated the second leak as a new 
claim instead of a continuation of the original claim.  That means Covea  shouldnt  have 
charged Mr P a second excess and it should  repay that with interest. It should also remove 
any reference to there  being a second  claim from its internal records and any external 
databases. It should confirm to Mr P that this has been done.
Coveas explanation for the premium increase seems reasonable to me. But if the fact that 
there was one claim instead of two would have  meant that his premium would have been 
less, then in order  to treat Mr P fairly it should  refund him any difference in premium plus 
interest from the date this was paid.
Covea hasnt shown  that its contractor replaced  the damaged insulation in the loft. Provided 
Mr P can provide reasonable evidence of how much he spent  replacing  this, I think Covea 
should reimburse him with interest  from the date this was paid.
The second  leak undoubtedly caused unnecessary trouble and upset to Mr P. He and his 
family had to put up with five more weeks of upheaval while their property was dried  and 
repaired again. In addition Covea failed to send out an emergency  plumber and after two 
days without a water supply he had to arrange for his own emergency plumber to attend at 
Coveas expense. Overall I think the sum of £350 is appropriate to compensate Mr P for the 
trouble and upset  caused by this.
Ref: DRN03018123my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Covea Insurance plc to:
refund Mr P any excess  he paid in respect of the second claim plus interest*;
recalculate the premium(s)  hes paid for his policy since the second water  leak assuming 
one escape of water instead of two and if the premium(s)  is/are  less than he paid,  refund 
him the difference  with interest*;
reimburse Mr P for the cost of replacing damaged insulation  in his loft plus interest* 
subject to him providing reasonable evidence of this; 
remove any reference to there  being a second  claim from its internal records and any 
external databases and confirm to Mr P that this has been done; and
pay Mr P compensation  of £350  for the trouble  and upset caused to him by its poor 
claims handling.
*interest is simple interest at the rate of 8 per cent a year payable from the date of payment  
in each case to the date of settlement. If Covea Insurance plc considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0301812