K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr A says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  trading  as Halifax  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr A has said it wasnt  made clear to him that the PPI was optional.  Ive seen a copy 
of Mr As credit  card and PPI application. The form has all of Mr As details and I 
think its likely it was completed  at the meeting. So I think  its a reasonable reflection 
of what Mr A discussed with BoS at the time of sale. On the form Mr A indicated  that 
he wanted to buy Credit Card Repayment  Cover (the PPI).  He didnt have to do this if 
he didnt want the PPI. So I think BoS made it clear that Mr A didnt have to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant 
remember this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr A so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Whilst he did have some  sick pay, he did seem to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr A paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr A back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr A now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0150700