K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)   mis-sold them  a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy  called TSB Mortgagesure.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1992, which they paid a monthly 
amount for.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
After doing so, Ive decided  that Mr and Mrs Ms PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say they were told they had to have the policy  in order to get the mortgage. 
They also say they werent told it would only pay out for 12 months.  
I will look at whether the policy was presented as optional. I do have the application for the 
mortgage but there isnt any paperwork for the sale of the PPI. But I dont find this surprising 
as the sale was over 25 years ago and the mortgage has been  redeemed. Businesses arent 
obliged to keep  paperwork  indefinitely. 
Mr and Mrs M have  been able to give us a copy of the letter they received shortly after the 
application which confirmed receipt of the TSB Mortgagesure  application, that it had been 
accepted, the policy  was live and gave  details of the cost and benefit  split. So this would 
suggest that the PPI application was separate from the mortgage  application  itself and not all 
part of the same document. 
The mortgage and the PPI were  applied for at a meeting. I cant know what was said during 
the meeting. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M have provided the best recollection they have. 
And I would like to assure them that I have taken their comments into consideration. But I 
have to be persuaded that it was more  likely  than not that they were  told they had to have 
the policy. 
As Lloyds  advised  Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy, I think  its just as likely they were told 
they should take out the policy,  rather  than they had to. And looking at their circumstances,  I 
dont think that would  have been unsuitable advice  even with the benefit  being  limited to 
12 months. I havent seen  enough in this case to make me to decide Mr and Mrs Ms version 
of events is what more  likely than not happened. I havent seen enough  to persuade  me 
Lloyds misled Mr and Mrs M about  the MPPI  being  optional and how long the benefits would 
be paid.
As mentioned above, Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy. This means that it 
assessed their circumstances and abilities to meet their repayments and made  a formal 
Ref: DRN09681882recommendation to take out PPI. When a business  recommends  a consumer take a policy  
as in this case   the business has to make  sure it is right for their circumstances. And based 
on what Ive seen, I think it was. 
Both Mr and Mrs M were employed when the policy was sold. Mr M was paid twice as much 
as Mrs M so the policy benefit  split of two thirds  in favour of Mr M and one third in favour of 
Mrs M seems to have been  thought about and addressed. Both Mr and Mrs M have told us 
they would  have received some employee sick pay if they werent able to work.  In the event 
of a successful claim the policy would have  paid out over and above  any employee  benefits  
Mr and Mrs M may have received, and for much longer  up to 12 months. So any employee 
benefits they received could have been used for other essential household outgoings at 
what could have been a difficult time for them. The policy  would have also paid out in the 
case of involuntary redundancy.
Mr and Mrs M have  told us they had some  savings they could have relied upon and also 
family could  have helped financially. But the policy  would have meant their savings remained 
intact for either their original purpose or another emergency. And while  no doubt 
Mr and Mrs Ms family would have wanted to help, their own financial circumstances could 
have changed  so their offer could not be guaranteed.
Taking a mortgage  is a large and long term financial commitment.  The penalties  for not 
making the monthly repayments are serious   even  so far as losing their home. So I think  
the policy gave  Mr and Mrs M a financial comfort they wouldnt otherwise have had. 
I dont know if it had been explained  before but  the cost of the policy was shown on the TSB 
Mortgagesure welcome letter. So I think Mr and Mrs M would have understood how much 
they would  need to pay for it. 
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt point out the main things the policy  wouldnt cover   a pre-
existing medical condition as an example. But Mr and Mrs M dont appear  to have been 
affected by any of those  things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ms comments,  including what  they said about having to 
have the policy and the limit to the time it would pay benefit. But because of what Ive said,  
these points dont  change my mind.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0968188