K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that he was given misleading information  about his loan by Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd BMF).
background
Mr J has a loan with BMF and he missed a monthly  payment  in December 2018. A few days 
later he received a call from a representative  of BMF to let him know  his payment had been 
missed. The representative told him the delayed payment would show  up on his credit  file for 
the number of days he had missed  making the payment.
Mr J challenged this and said he had experience  of financial matters. He told the 
representative he was wrong and repeated that assertion. He asked that a complaint be 
logged and asked  for his direct debit to be cancelled. The representative did both. Mr J said 
that he could make a payment by the end of the month and he would do so. Mr J ended  the 
call before the representative could complete his explanation. 
Blue responded by upholding his complaint, but Mr J brought the matter to this service and 
asked that he be given £200 compensation which amounts  to one months  instalment. It was 
considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend that it be upheld.
He listened to the call and agreed that the representative had been wrong in telling Mr J his 
credit file would  record  the number of days he had delayed making the payment. However, 
he didnt think the representative had been  unreasonable. He had made a mistake, but he 
was seeking to limit the impact on Mr Js credit file by offering to take a debit card payment 
over the phone. 
The adjudicator said he believed Mr J fully understood his rights and knew he had to the end 
of the month to make the payment. He noted that Mr J wanted  to make sure BMF  give 
correct information  to other customers of theirs going forward,  but that wasnt  the role lf this 
service. Mr J didnt  agree.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  appropriate.  I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have  the power to make rules for financial businesses  or 
to punish them.
I have listened  to the call and it is clear  the representative made a mistake  in suggesting Mr 
Js credit  file could be affected  by a short delay in making his payment. However, Mr J was 
aware this was wrong and corrected the representative. He dominated  the conversation and 
the representative was polite and professional  throughout.  While I can see that Mr J was 
irritated, I dont believe any harm was done. BMF upheld his complaint and I dont  think  
anything further  is required. I cannot  see that any compensation  is merited.
Ref: DRN04550612my final decision
My final decision in is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject  my decision before
2 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0455061