K821x#15complaint
Mrs I says she was mis-sold payment  protection insurance (PPI). 
Its been agreed Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the insurer should 
accept responsibility  for the complaint. Although FICL didnt actually sell the PPI, to 
keep things simple  Ill refer just to FICL  in my decision.
background
Mrs I was sold a PPI policy with a store card in 1995. 
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Is complaint didnt think FICL  explained  the terms and 
conditions of the PPI policy clearly  to Mrs I. And he didnt think Mrs I wouldve bought the 
policy if it had. FICL  disagrees, so Mrs Is complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, on balance, Ive decided  to uphold Mrs Is complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had a duty to give Mrs I enough  clear information about the PPI so she could make  an 
informed decision about whether she wanted it. From what Ive seen, I dont  think FICL did 
this. And also from what Ive seen, on balance, I think  if FICL had given Mrs I the clear 
information she needed she wouldnt have bought the policy.
I say this because  the policy Mrs I was sold contained what  I think are onerous conditions  for 
making a successful unemployment claim  if a person was self employed. For example, the 
terms required the business to be in the process  of being wound  up or in the hands  of a 
liquidator before a claim could be made.  
Mrs I says she was self employed when she was sold the policy. FICL says that Mrs I has 
given inconsistent information about her employment status, and I can see that she has. Mrs 
I says that this was because she wasnt  clear  what question  she was being  asked by firstly 
FICL and then by her representative. However when our adjudicator explained to Mrs I that 
what we needed  to know was whether she was employed or self employed at the time of the 
sale, I can see she gave a clear,  specific and detailed answer and I have no reason  to 
disbelieve what she has said.
So I think its more likely  than not that Mrs I was self employed when  she bought the PPI. 
And I think it would have mattered to her that she could only have claimed for unemployment 
under the onerous terms Ive outlined above. 
There was no information about these terms on the application form Mrs I signed  when she 
was sold the PPI policy. So I havent  seen  anything to show  FICL  did enough to make  the 
terms for self employment claims clear  to Mrs I. If it had done, and based on the information 
Ive got, I think its unlikely Mrs I wouldve gone  ahead with the policy.  
Ref: DRN04249672So I think Mrs I has lost out because  of what FICL has done  wrong  and so it should  put 
things right.
putting things right
I understand Mrs Is account is closed.
FICL should put Mrs I in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
So:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs I wouldve owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs I owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs I made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs I wouldve owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs I would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs I 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balances, FICL should  also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mrs I paid. And it should  carry  on paying interest until the point when Mrs I 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs I what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from the interest. FICL  must  give Mrs I a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mrs Is complaint and direct Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before date 3 May 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0424967