K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard  (Barclays) wont  allow 
him to settle his credit card debt.  He also complains that Barclays failed to respond  to a 
subject access request. 
background
Mr M had a Barclaycard  credit card account  with an outstanding debt in excess of £8,000.  
On 12 June 2018 he called Barclays to discuss a letter he had just received concerning  the 
transfer of the debt to a third party (H). He asked  if he could settle  the debt with £3,000. 
Barclays said the minimum it would accept was £3,300 which  Mr M didnt have at the time.  
Mr M said he called back  the next day after securing the additional £300. At this point he 
said Barclays told him the account  could not be settled as the process to transfer the 
account to H had already started. 
Mr M complained to Barclays that hed been given  a settlement figure so should be allowed 
to settle. He also asked for a transcript of the telephone call from 12 June. Barclays  said that 
information given  on 13 June regarding the transfer of ownership  of Mr Ms account  was 
correct but it accepted Mr M was given incorrect information the previous day. By way of 
apology it credited Mr Ms Barclaycard account  with £50. It said Mr M could make  a subject 
access request for the information relating to the telephone call. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with this response so brought his complaint to this service. He also 
said he had paid the subject access request fee of £10 (required at the time) but hadnt 
received anything back. He felt that Barclays should  either write off his debt or accept £3,300 
to settle the debt. 
Our adjudicator concluded that Barclays had acknowledged the mis-information and had 
paid £50 in compensation  which she thought  was fair and reasonable. She also said 
Barclays had been unable to provide the information  Mr M had requested  as it hadnt 
received a response to its letter requesting further detail. 
Mr M asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman. He accepted  that Barclays  could 
transfer the debt at any time but felt that Barclays  had acted unfairly  by offering a settlement 
figure but then claiming it shouldnt have offered this 24 hours later. He also said he hadnt  
received a letter from Barclays concerning the subject access request. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M but having done so I wont be asking  Barclays  to do anything further. 
Barclays has accepted  it did advise Mr M on 12 June 2017  that it could settle his debt for 
£3,300. It said Mr M offered £1,000  originally, then £2,500 and finally  £3,000. It said it 
advised at the end of the call that the debt could be sold at any time and Mr M 
acknowledged that. Im satisfied Mr M was corrected very quickly  during the call the next 
day. 
Ref: DRN01121282I can see from Barclays system notes that Mr Ms account was selected  for transfer on 5 
June and a pre-transfer letter was sent on 7 June. So Im satisfied that the transfer was 
underway at the time of the calls on 12 and 13 June. Ive looked  at the terms and conditions 
and it does say that Barclays  can sell the debt on and this was not only explained to Mr M on 
the phone  but he accepted that. The notes  also confirm the transfer to H was completed  on 
18 July. 
Barclays has said that once the sale is agreed  it wouldnt accept anything less than the full 
balance in settlement  of the account. Its not my role to look at a banks processes so the 
sale process is not one I can comment on. 
Mr M has said it makes  him feel sick to think about  the way hes been  treated by Barclays  
and that hes paid hundreds of pounds in interest  and charges. And that Barclays told him it 
no longer wanted  any payment when he was in extreme hardship paying  £10 per month. He 
said he finds it hard to understand why they dont want to be paid the settlement offered 
now. 
Barclays has said it had given Mr M more  than enough time to settle the debt and it 
eventually made  the business decision to sell the debt. I can see the last payment made to 
the account was in 2014 and the date of the default notice is July 2011. As Mr M hasnt 
disputed the actual debt amount in the phone call and was responding to correspondence  
concerning the transfer of the debt, with an attempt to make  an offer, Im satisfied he has 
been aware of the debt and his responsibilities for some time and could have approached 
Barclays with an offer prior to 5 June.  So while I appreciate  Barclays  gave him incorrect  
information during  the call on 12 June  Im satisfied it was already too late for Mr M to agree 
an offer lower than the outstanding balance. I consider £50 for the mis-information fair and 
reasonable and what  I would  expect  under the circumstances. 
But I am sorry to hear that Mr M is unhappy  with the way hes been treated by Barclays and 
that he has been in some financial difficulties.  This complaint deals with the phone call and 
the transfer of debt.  A bank has a responsibility to act if it becomes aware  that a customer  is 
in financial difficulty.  If Mr M is unhappy  with the way Barclays has managed  his account 
prior to the transfer this would  be under a separate complaint. He would need to bring  it to 
Barclays first in order that it has the opportunity  to respond.  
Mr M has also said that now the debt is sold there is no more room for negotiation. Mr Ms 
debt is now owned  by H. The fact that he can no longer negotiate with Barclays doesnt 
necessarily mean he cant negotiate  with H. But this would  be a matter  between Mr M and H 
and not one on which I can make any further  comment. 
Mr M said he made a subject access request, including  payment  of the £10 fee, which was 
applicable at the time,  but hasnt  heard  back from Barclays. Ive seen a copy  of a letter  sent 
from Barclays on 14 February asking for specific details of the call Mr M was interested in. 
Mr M said he didnt  receive it. Im not disputing this but having seen evidence  it was sent I 
cant hold Barclays responsible for Mr M not receiving it. I note that the adjudicator has now 
provided Mr M with a copy of the call. 
Ref: DRN01121283my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0112128