K820x#14complaint
Mr F is a sole trader trading as A. He complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt fairly 
compensated him for a mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance  (PPI) policy he took out 
with a business loan.
background
The key facts and circumstances leading up to this complaint arent disputed,  so I havent  
repeated all of this here. Briefly:
Lloyds upheld Mr Fs mis-selling  complaint about  his single premium PPI policy  sold 
with a business loan in 1993.
Lloyds offered Mr F compensation of around £6,000 and included  a breakdown of 
how it arrived at its calculation.
Mr F complained because he didnt think the compensation was big enough  he said 
he paid over £5,000 for the policy in the first two years because  his loan statement 
shows it took this long before the balance  got below the original loan amount.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. In summary they said they were satisfied 
Lloyds had calculated  the compensation in line with our guidelines  and so fairly 
compensated Mr F for the mis-sold policy. They explained how a single premium policy 
worked and said they were satisfied that Mr F hadnt  paid more  for PPI as he believed  to be 
the case.
Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions  and he repeated  the argument that he paid 
more for the policy and so hasnt been fairly  compensated.
Because Mr F disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.  I think  the adjudicator  has 
reached a fair conclusion  for the following reasons:
Mr Fs PPI policy was of the single  premium type where  the one-off cost was added to the 
requested or principal  loan amount (the amount Mr F applied for and received into his bank 
account). So Mr Fs overall loan amount was higher than it would otherwise have been by 
the amount of the single  premium added to the principal  loan amount  - in this case by 
£1,577. 
Ref: DRN07730652So when Mr Fs loan began, interest was charged  on the overall loan amount each month  as 
per his loan agreement. And when Mr F made  his regular monthly loan repayment, just as in 
any loan of this type,  part of it covered the interest  and part went towards reducing the 
capital or the overall loan balance  i.e. the principal  loan together  with the PPI premium. In 
the early stages of the loan  because  the outstanding balance was higher  a greater 
portion of Mr Fs loan repayment was taken up by the interest charged on the outstanding 
balance versus the amount that went to reduce the capital / outstanding loan balance. But as 
that balance gradually reduced, so the interest  charged began to reduce. And this would 
continue as the term of the loan progressed, so that ultimately more of Mr Fs loan 
repayment would have more of an impact  on the outstanding balance. And the early stages 
of this can be seen  from the bank loan statement Mr F provided covering the first few 
months of the loan term.
So its not the case that Mr F paid over £5,000 for PPI in the first two years  of his loan alone  
 the greater portion of Mr Fs loan repayments and what I believe he is looking at was in 
fact to cover the interest charged  on the overall  loan as Ive described  above. Mr Fs PPI 
policy represented just £1,577 of that overall greater balance on which  interest was charged.
So had Mr F not been sold PPI, his overall loan would  have been smaller by £1,577 and he 
wouldnt have been charged interest on this amount over the full term of the loan  an 
amount of £870.92.  Mr Fs regular monthly loan repayment would have been smaller  as a 
result too. 
Because Lloyds  concluded Mr Fs PPI was mis-sold he should be returned to the position 
hed otherwise have been  in  i.e. hed have only paid for his principal loan amount and not 
the extra PPI. So Mr Fs financial loss represents  the additional £2,447.92 (£1,577  plus 
£870.92) he ended up paying  on his overall loan. And Lloyds offer of compensation should  
reflect that.
Ive looked closely  at Lloyds offer and Im satisfied it has done just that. It has also added  
appropriate simple  interest to Mr Fs compensation amount to reflect the time period that 
Mr F has been  out of pocket for i.e. he paid more each month than he would otherwise have 
done. And Im satisfied  this represents  fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case 
as it returns Mr F to the position  hed have been  in had he not been sold PPI. Lloyds doesnt  
need to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided Lloyds Bank PLCs offer of compensation to 
Mr F for his mis-sold  PPI is fair in the circumstances   so I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0773065