K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Santander UK plc opened a credit card account in her name without 
her knowledge  or authority.  
background
Miss W had a current account with Santander.  In March 2009  the address on the account 
was changed,  and the following month a mobile  phone number was added. The month after 
that  May 2009  Santander  opened  a credit  card account in Miss Ws name.  The card and 
PIN were, according to the banks  records, sent to the address registered on Miss Ws bank 
account. They were  used for several transactions shortly afterwards.
The banks records also indicate that, towards the end of 2009, Miss W contacted  it to say 
she was struggling  to repay the debt. A payment arrangement was discussed. Similar 
conversations took place  in around 2015. 
More recently, Miss W contacted Santander to say she didnt know anything about the credit 
card and had not applied  for it. She had, she says, previously agreed to payment 
arrangements only because she felt pressured  and threatened   not because she was 
responsible for the account. 
Miss W complained to this service  but our adjudicator concluded that Santander hadnt 
treated Miss W unfairly. Miss W didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case  
 as the final stage in our process.           
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, I agree with 
the adjudicators  overall conclusions and for broadly the same  reasons. 
I note first of all that the personal details on the credit card account match  Miss Ws 
information. The card and PIN were sent to the address  shed given Santander, and they 
were used shortly after the account was opened. In the circumstances I think  its likely that 
she used them; its unlikely that a fraudster would  have  been able to make the application 
and then intercept  both the card and the PIN.
Second, Miss W doesnt  deny having  discussed  the account with Santander on more  than 
one occasion.  But at no point until quite recently  did she suggest it was a fraudulently  
opened account. I accept that Miss W may have felt under pressure  when being  pressed for 
payment, but if anything  that was all the more reason for her to explain (if that were the 
case) that she disputed the debt. On balance, I think the reason she didnt say she wasnt 
responsible for the debt was because  she knew she was. 
Further, by not saying anything about any dispute, I believe Miss W indicated  that there  was 
no dispute. MBNA didnt  therefore take any steps to investigate either the application or the 
card use. Its now effectively lost the opportunity of doing so. It wouldnt therefore now be fair 
to make MBNA write off any debt (as Miss W says it should).
It may be that Miss W doesnt now recall opening the credit  card account, but the evidence 
here indicates to me that its more likely  than not that she did.
Ref: DRN09823212my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont require Santander Bank  plc to 
do anything further  to resolve  Miss Ws complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept or reject  my decision before 
6 September 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0982321