K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that Capital One (Europe) plc has failed to give a reasonable explanation  
concerning how someone  attempted to fraudulently  use his credit card. 
Background
Mr W has a credit card with Capital One. On 22 October 2018  Mr W got a text message that 
asked him to respond to confirm whether a payment for £279.99 was genuine. Mr W also 
received calls from a private  number  around  that time. 
Mr W didnt respond  to the text and called Capital One instead.  During the call he confirmed 
he hadnt attempted the transaction and it came  to light that a fraudster  had called 
Capital One and impersonated  Mr W in an attempt to amend his security  details.  Mrs W, who 
brings the complaint on behalf  of Mr W, says the call handler said the three  digit security 
code from his credit card had been provided  along  with his date of birth and postcode.  
Mr W asked how such private information had fallen into the hands of fraudsters and wanted 
Capital One to investigate. A complaint was raised when Capital One failed  to explain what  
had happened  in detail. Capital One issued its final response on 3 November 2018 but didnt  
uphold the complaint. It said the fraud prevention  systems had worked and picked up a 
suspicious transaction. Capital One also said it hadnt given Mr Ws details  to anyone and 
that it thought  his information had either been obtained as part of a phishing  exercise  or from 
a breach with another party. 
Mr Ws complaint  was referred to our service and passed to an investigator. The investigator  
thought Capital One had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything  else.  
On behalf of Mr W, Mrs W asked to appeal so the complaint has been passed to me to make  
a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W has explained that she and Mr W want Capital One to answer some key questions 
about how fraudsters  were able to obtain  his details. They  want  to know what Capital One 
did to investigate the attempted fraud. 
I understand why Mr W wants answers from Capital  One. But I have to balance  that against  
a business need  to keep important information about its fraud prevention systems 
confidential. I wouldnt normally  expect  a business to give out details of how it approaches 
fraud investigations or the specific technical measures it has in place as releasing 
information of that nature  to the public could increase  the risk of fraud. I think Capital  One 
has provided a clear response  to Mr Ws complaint. Capital One says it hasnt identified  a 
data breach in relation to Mr Ws account  and has given  information about other ways 
fraudsters could have  obtained his details.  Whilst I appreciate Mr W would  like a more 
detailed response,  Im satisfied the responses  Capital One has provided are reasonable.  
I havent found anything to indicate  that Capital  One has made a mistake  or treated Mr W 
unfairly in this case. It has fraud  prevention systems in place.  Those systems correctly  
identified and stopped an attempt to make a fraudulent payment. When  the fraudster 
Ref: DRN03524942contacted Capital One it took steps  to contact Mr W and secure his account. There has been  
no loss to Mr W and Capital One went on to send a replacement credit card as requested. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W but Im satisfied Capital One has dealt with his complaint  fairly 
so Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0352494