K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about advice from BlackStar Wealth Management Limited (Blackstar). 
He says that advice to invest 25 per cent of his pension in an unregulated fund was 
unsuitable for him. The fund has now gone into liquidation.
background
Mr B was employed and had three  personal pension plans  with a total value of around 
£110,000. All three plans were invested  in with-profits funds.
Mr B took advice from Blackstar in 2015  after an introduction from an unregulated firm. 
Blackstar conducted a telephone interview  with Mr B in November 2015 and prepared  a 
Financial Planning Report. It recommended  that he switch these three existing personal 
pensions to a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). 
A risk questionnaire was completed  which  assessed  Mr Bs investment risk attitude as 
medium. 
Once the SIPP was set up, investment instructions were sent to the SIPP  provider to invest  
a proportion of the pension funds  into the Alpha Business Centre  (ABC) Bond. This was an 
investment to be used  to purchase,  renovate and realise properties for profit in the UK and 
Dubai, which  in turn would  improve returns to the companys  investors. The bond has 
subsequently gone into liquidation.  
Mr B complained about the advice. BlackStar didnt uphold the complaint and it was referred 
to this service. An adjudicator looked  into the complaint and felt it should be upheld, he gave 
his reasons as follows:
Blackstar had initially noted, and was therefore  aware, that the introduction  came  
from an unregulated  business which wasnt able to provide advice about 
investments.
Blackstar had carried out the due diligence  on the ABC Bond investment and was 
aware if this was suitable for Mr B. 
The regulators view point was that it was a requirement for a business  providing 
advice to transfer to a SIPP to also consider the appropriateness of the proposed 
investments.
The advice that had been  provided  by Blackstar was unsuitable.
Based  on Mr Bs limited  investment  experience, investing in an unregulated collective 
investment scheme (UCIS) was high risk and inappropriate.
Blackstar viewed Mr B as a sophisticated  investor so he should  have  had a great  
understanding of this investment, but Mr Bs investment background only extended to 
investing in with-profits funds and some BT shares
Investing 25 per cent of his entire  pension  fund into a UCIS  was a high risk.
Blackstar responded to the adjudicators view and said,  in summary:
The ABC Bond was a corporate bond  and not an investment fund and that this 
investment can still be non-regulated  and relatively high risk.
Mr B was a sophisticated  investor who was capable of understanding non-regulated  
investments.
Ref: DRN06896592Mr Bs attitude to risk was medium, Blackstar said that any single asset could be 
considered high risk in isolation, but could be viewed with all the other investments to 
give a diversified attitude to risk.
Following discussions  with various parties,  its expected that the value of the ABC 
Bond should  make  a full recovery.
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his mind. He noted that an unregulated 
introducer had referred  Mr B to Blackstar, however he said the onus was on Blackstar  to fully 
understand Mr Bs background and to determine  if the ABC Bond was suitable for him. It 
was the adjudicators view that a transfer  to a SIPP and a ABC investment appeared to be 
unsuitable for Mr B.
my findings
Ive considered all the evidence  and arguments  in order to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator that the unregulated  introducer wasnt  authorised to provide 
advice. It seems likely  that this was the reason for the introduction  to Blackstar.
Im not satisfied that the advice relating to the residual money within  the SIPP  was 
unsuitable for Mr B. The balance was not invested into unregulated investments but placed 
into a general investment  account and then divided  and invested with various external  fund 
managers. It was split between high income, property, Japan, Asia, United States and UK 
equities. In my view the funds selected  within the general investment account (GIA) were 
structured and modelled towards  a medium risk investor like Mr B.
Blackstar had initially recommended another unregulated investment (Dubai Car Parks). But 
after the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidelines about it, the decision was 
taken to place  more funds into the GIA instead.
Blackstar says that it had carried out due diligence on the ABC Bond. Ive considered that 
but Ive also considered the question of the suitability of this investment for Mr B.
The investment into the ABC Bond  only went ahead as a result  of Blackstars  advice that 
Mr B should  switch part of his pension fund within the SIPP into this specific investment. But 
Blackstar says that the ABC Bond  was actually a corporate  bond not a fund, which  is a 
straight forward security. This statement isnt in line with Blackstars  own Financial  Planning 
Report in which  they described the ABC Bond  as non-regulated and relatively high risk.  
The FCA has issued alerts in respect  of advising  on pension transfers  with a view to 
investing pension  monies into unregulated products through  a SIPP.  One was published  on 
18 January 2013  and a further one published  on 28 April 2014. The regulator has made its 
position quite  clear when it said the following in the alert issued in 2013;-
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
Ref: DRN06896593strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating.
It is clear that the regulators view was (and is) that the suitability of the proposed underlying 
investments that were  to be held by the SIPP needed to be considered as part of the overall 
decision to transfer.  Blackstar  was aware  of the proposed  investment  in ...overseas 
property when it provided the advice.  The suitability of the investment therefore  needed  to 
be considered  as part of the advice being  provided.
Mr Bs existing  pensions  were invested  in with-profits  funds.  He didnt have any other 
investments or any significant savings. Mr B was aware of the charges relating to the SIPP. 
However, the charges involved in setting up and running a SIPP  (plus  underlying  
investments) can be relatively  high compared to the alternatives, meaning  additional  
investment growth  would be needed to cover  the costs.
Mr B had invested 25% of his pension into an unregulated investment. And this figure would 
have been higher if Blackstar had gone ahead and invested further money into another  UCIS 
investment (Dubai  Car Parks).
Mr Bs previous investment experience was limited. His pensions  had been invested in with-
profits fund only. He was classified as a medium risk investor.  But the ABC Bond was a 
non-mainstream investment which would normally only be considered suitable for a small 
proportion of an experienced  investors portfolio.
Mr B wasnt  an experienced investor  and Ive not seen any evidence that hed agreed to 
adopt a high risk investment strategy with his pension.
In addition, I dont  believe Mr B would have understood the investment risks involved, such 
as the failure of the speculative investments or the potential for the total loss of his 
investment. There were many  other  risks such as the uncertainty that the development could 
be sold at a profit and external economic risks as the investment was abroad in Dubai. As 
such the investment  wasnt appropriate  for Mr B. Im not satisfied that Blackstar  should  have  
advised him to invest in this UCIS  within the SIPP. 
This view is supported by the regulators opinion in its good and poor practice  report 
published in July 2010. That report was about  advice to invest in UCIS and I think  this is 
relevant to the investment  into the ABC Bond. In that report it the regulator  suggested  that 
an example of good practice was a maximum level of portfolio exposure to UCIS of between 
3% and 5%, monitored on an ongoing basis even for an experienced investor.
Having considered all the evidence, Im not satisfied  that the advice to invest into the ABC 
Bond was suitable advice. It presented too high a degree of risk for Mr B given  his 
circumstances including  his experience  and capacity for loss. It was not suitable advice or in 
his best interest.   
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr B would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
Ref: DRN06896594reasonable given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.  
what should  Blackstar  do?
To compensate Mr B fairly,  Blackstar must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Blackstar should add interest as set out below.  
If there is a loss, Blackstar should pay into Mr B's pension  plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Blackstar is unable to pay the total amount  into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr B £200 for the trouble this has caused and the worry over the losses.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Blackstar deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr B how much has been taken  off. Blackstar should  give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN06896595investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
ABC BondIn 
LiquidationFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
transferdate of 
calculation8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Blackstar should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Blackstar is unable to purchase the investment,  the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. Blackstar may require that Mr B provides an undertaking to 
pay Blackstar any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. Blackstar  will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr B wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
The FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.
Although it is called income  index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr B's circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision 
Ref: DRN06896596I uphold this complaint  about Blackstar Wealth Management Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
 ..
Ref: DRN0689659