K822xcomplaint
Mr D has complained that A J Bell Management Limited  (AJB) changed its charging 
structure which has led to an increase  in fees on both of his accounts.  He feels  this is unfair 
as he never  agreed  to these terms when he opened his accounts. 
background 
Mr D held two accounts with AJB. On 9 August 2016 AJB sent correspondence outlining  the 
changes it was making to its charging structure. Included in the correspondence  was a link 
which enabled its customers to calculate  how these changes may impact  them.  
On 12 May 2017 Mr D contacted AJB to complain  about the increase in charges and 
requested a refund of these charges (which  would have resulted  in AJB returning  to its old 
charging structure). AJB didnt agree to Mr Ds request, so he brought the complaint to our 
service. An adjudicator at our service looked into Mr Ds complaint. During this time Mr D 
transferred his accounts to a new provider. As a result of this, Mr D had to pay exit fees.
Following our involvement AJB made an offer to Mr D to refund the exit fees which  were  
applied when he chose  to transfer his account  to another  provider, plus interest.  Our 
adjudicator reviewed the offer and explained  why he felt it was fair. He also explained that 
AJBs methodology  for calculating how much Mr D was now owed was in line with what we 
would have suggested.
Mr D remained  unhappy. He felt a monetary figure should have been  specified by AJB and 
our service  (rather than it outlining  the methodology) and he said he should  receive  
compensation for the time he had spent pursuing  the complaint. Our service sent further  
correspondence to Mr D explaining why we felt the offer and methodology was fair and 
provided reasons  for why we wouldnt  ask AJB to do anything further. Mr D still remained 
unhappy, so the case was passed to me to consider. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so my decision is that the 
offer AJB has made is fair and reasonable. I will explain why.
charging structure
I appreciate that AJB did change its charging structure which  impacted Mr D and Ive 
considered the fact Mr D wouldnt  have been  able to exit the contract freely as exit fees 
would have been applied. But AJB has since offered to put Mr D back into the position he 
would have been in had he been able to exit the contract freely (without fees being applied). 
And this is what I would have told AJB to do if it hadnt made the offer.  I say this because I 
wouldnt have expected AJB to return to its old charging structure in the circumstances. But 
Mr D should have had the choice to exit without paying fees, given that his choice to exit was 
due to his contract  changing. This is because  it wouldve been fair to have  given Mr D the 
ability to exit the contract without charge when the terms  changed. So with that in mind I 
wont be asking AJB to do anything further.  
methodology
Ref: DRN05007022In cases where we think a business has acted unreasonably, we may ask the business  to 
put the consumer back  into the position  they would have been in if the business  had acted in 
line with what we consider to be fair. And in these types of cases it isnt uncommon for a 
methodology to be outlined  instead  of providing a defined monetary figure.  In this case  the 
methodology reflects what would have happened if Mr D could have exited  the contract 
freely  that is, the return of the fees he paid to exit. Once Mr D accepted AJB then applied 
that methodology to calculate  the monetary figure. But in any event I can see that AJB has 
now provided a monetary figure to Mr D, which follows  the methodology set out in the offer.
compensation 
Mr D feels he should be compensated for the time he has spent  pursuing  his complaint. And 
I have considered the points he has made.  But, with any financial dispute  its reasonable to 
suggest that some inconvenience will be caused while trying to resolve the matter. And so I 
dont feel Mr D has suffered a degree of trouble and upset beyond  the inconvenience of 
having to make the complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is the offer A J Bell Limited has made is fair and I wont  be asking it to do 
anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0500702