K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr K says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made clear that Mr K didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it. 
Mr K has said he was led to believe hed be refused the finance if he didnt take the PPI. 
He says it wasnt made clear the PPI was optional and the sales  person insisted he take 
it. But Mr K applied  for his card online. And from what we know  of how Barclays  sold PPI 
online at the time, I think its likely Mr Ks application  asked  whether  he wanted PPI  and 
PPI was added only after Mr K indicated in his online application that he wanted  it. Also 
what Mr K has said isnt enough  to persuade me that Barclays pressured him.
Barclays didnt give Mr K a personal  recommendation  for the PPI. So Barclays  didnt 
have to check the PPI was right for him. But Barclays did have to make sure Mr K got the 
information he needed to decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr K about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But I think  he chose to take it out  so it looks  to me like he wanted  this 
type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of Mr Ks circumstances at the time, he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the cover   so it looks like it 
wouldve been useful  for him if something went wrong. For a successful disability or 
unemployment claim the PPI would pay out for up to twelve  months.  Based on what  Mr K 
has told us, I dont  think his work  sick pay, redundancy benefits or savings wouldve 
lasted as long as this. Taking  everything into account, I dont  think  better information 
about the PPI would have changed Mr Ks decision  to take it.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K. 
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr K, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about all Mr Ks points, including what hes said about how his partner or family 
couldve helped him with his card payments.  But other peoples circumstances and ability to 
help can change. Mr K has also said he wasnt told about other products on the market.  But 
Ref: DRN01816402Barclays didnt have  to tell Mr K about PPI products it didnt  sell. So for these  reasons and 
the ones Ive already given above, these points dont change my decision. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC has to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0181640