K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains Lloyds Bank  PLC hasnt facilitated  a chargeback request she made 
following her making  an investment to an online trading platform.  
background
Mrs K made a total investment of $5,000 in April 2018. Almost  immediately Mrs K thought  
she might  have been scammed and asked Lloyds  to stop the transaction. But this wasnt  
possible as Mrs K had made  the payment by debit card.  So she asked it to make a 
chargeback back.  She also asked the trading  platform to give her a refund. It did refund an 
amount but retained £544.15.
Lloyds asked for various pieces of information in order to process the chargeback request.  
But this took place over many months. As progress wasnt  being  made  Mrs K made a 
complaint. She also asked us to get involved. Lloyds upheld her complaint and offered £100 
for the inconvenience  caused. It also started  the charge  back  process for Mrs K and 
temporarily credited  the account with £544.15.
Our investigator queried whether  or not the chargeback had been successful and was told 
by Lloyds it had been as the merchant had never disputed it. But Mrs K provided statements 
to show £366.68  had been re-debited  her account in September  2018. As Lloyds had 
confirmed the chargeback  had been  successful our investigator upheld the complaint and 
asked for the money to be refunded. She also asked for a further  £50 compensation. 
Lloyds apologised  as it had incorrectly told us the chargeback had been successful when in 
fact the merchant had defended it and so £366.68 had been correctly  re-debited from the 
account. Because of this new evidence the investigator overturned  her original findings and 
didnt uphold  the complaint. The evidence showed  Lloyds had raised the chargeback  but 
Visa, the card scheme provider, had declined it as the merchant had defended  it. 
Although Mrs K initially accepted the outcome, she later appealed it, asking for the matter  to 
be referred to an ombudsman. In summary:
She made a bitcoin  investment  and later discovered the business wasnt  authorised  
to carry out investment business  in the UK. There is a warning  about  the business  on 
the regulators website.  She believes the money wasnt invested  but instead  stolen. 
She requested  a chargeback in April 2018.
Lloyds requested numerous bits of information, some of them duplicate requests. 
She replied promptly but Lloyds  was reluctant to process the chargeback.
It was finally made  in August 2018  but believes it was unsuccessful  because of its 
lack of support  for the claim. 
Shes unhappy with the handling  of her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find Lloyds Bank  has 
already fairly compensated  Mrs K. 
A chargeback is not a legal right that Mrs K has. Chargeback schemes are voluntary 
schemes set up between card issuers   such as Visa,  Mastercard or American Express  
Ref: DRN08565822and merchants. In this case, I understand the debit card was a Visa card and so it is its 
scheme rules that apply.  
It isnt Lloyds that makes  the decision about  whether or not to chargeback  or whether  it 
should be successful.  Thats  a decision that Visa makes and not something I can consider 
here. I can only consider  Lloyds actions in requesting the chargeback. 
I agree  that Mrs K was put to some trouble when she initially requested it. Lloyds shouldnt 
have repeatedly asked her for the same information and the chargeback  request  wasnt  
made until Mrs K complained. So Lloyds has caused unnecessary  delays. But I dont see 
that those delays have affected  the chargeback outcome itself. 
Lloyds requested the chargeback through Visa in August 2018. Lloyds records show  Visa 
declined the request on 30 August 2018.  But Lloyds asked for the matter to be considered 
again presumably because it thought  Mrs K should  get her money back. From the 
information provided, Visa accepted the merchants explanation about  the trading account  
and decided the chargeback shouldnt succeed.  Thats a decision that Lloyds is required to 
follow and so it had to re-debit an amount back from Mrs Ks account. 
I do understand why Mrs K is so upset about this. But at the heart of that is Mrs K investing 
into a platform that turned  out to be unauthorised. I agree Lloyds did delay things.  Overall,  
Im satisfied the £100 offered by Lloyds fairly compensates  her for that. And the decision  to 
re-debit the account was one made  by Visa not Lloyds. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that Lloyds Bank  PLC has already made a fair 
offer in resolution  to this complaint. I require it to pay Mrs K £100 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0856582