K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about the short  term loans he took out with Casheuronet UK LLC trading as 
QuickQuid. Mr A says that he was struggling financially at the time and once the loans were 
paid he didnt have  enough for the rest of the month  and so he needed  to borrow again.  He 
says QuickQuid shouldve  recognised  he had problems  and not lent to him. 
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. QuickQuid disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion.  The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr As complaint should be upheld  in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint  and my provisional findings are attached and form 
part of this final decision. 
QuickQuid, and Mr A, confirmed that they had received my provisional decision. 
Mr A confirmed that he agreed with my provisional  decision. QuickQuid didnt agree with my 
provisional decision. It said that:
Mr A had enough disposable  income to be able to afford the repayments for loans 1 
and 2
Mr A had agreed that he may need  to save money over the life of the loans to make 
the final larger repayments
the checks made were proportionate  and it provided the CEU Lending Criteria and 
Proportionate Checks document again to demonstrate this
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  at what QuickQuid has said, I dont think it has raised any new points  after 
receiving my provisional decision. So Ill address what it said briefly. 
In my provisional decision I said that Mr A would have around  £60 disposable income left 
over after making the three loan repayments. Averaged  over the three  month loan term this 
was around £20 a month. QuickQuid agrees with this. I still think is too small an amount to 
be able to safely say that Mr A could make the repayments to loan 1 without problem. Whilst 
QuickQuid doesnt  agree it hasnt provided  any further evidence or arguments about  this. So 
Ive reached the same  conclusions I reached  earlier, and for the same reasons. 
The situation  is very similar for loan 2 and QuickQuid didnt comment  on the amounts Mr A 
had left over. So my decision is again  the same as earlier  and for the same  reasons. 
I accept that Mr A may have been  informed that he may need to put money aside when he 
made the first two smaller  loan repayments to make  the final larger  repayment.  But it doesnt 
change the fact that Mr A would be unlikely to be able to do this as he didnt have enough 
money left over.  So I dont think it was appropriate  to lend for this reason.  
Ref: DRN00981052I explained in my provisional decision  that Id considered the information and arguments 
contained in the document QuickQuid  attached  but they hadnt  changed  what  I thought 
about Mr As complaint.  This hasnt  changed and I dont have anything to add to what  I said 
in my provisional decision.   
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
To put things right for Mr A, QuickQuid should:
refund all the interest and charges applied as a result  of loans 1 and 2; and
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit  file about  these loans;
If Mr A still owes QuickQuid any of the principal  balance he borrowed on his final loan. 
QuickQuid may deduct this remaining  amount from the compensation thats  due to Mr A. 
And if QuickQuid no longer owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the 
amount owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any 
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mr A.
HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr As complaint.
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00981053extract from my provisional  decision
Mr A took out four loans between July 2015 and June 2017.  Mr A needed  to make three repayments 
for all of the loans, two smaller ones then a larger one. For loans  3 and 4 Mr A was due to make these  
payments at roughly  (just under)  two week intervals. Some of the information QuickQuid has given us 
is shown in the table below: 
loan number startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(days)endedestimated  
disposable 
income
1 08/07/2015 £100.00 76 22/09/2015 £73.50
2 12/10/2015 £100.00 77 29/11/2015 £75.00
3 29/01/2017 £150.00 47
3a 31/01/2017 £100.00 4517/03/2017 £240.00
4 20/06/2017 £100.00 45
4a 21/06/2017 £150.00 44outstanding £212.75
QuickQuid has looked at Mr As complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld. QuickQuid said that it 
did appropriate checks for all of the loans. And these checks showed  that the lending  was affordable 
based on Mr As declared monthly income. It said there were large gaps between some of the loans  
which showed  he wasnt dependent on short term lending. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr As complaint  and recommended that QuickQuid refund the 
interest and charges that he paid on loans 1, 2, 3a and 4a. QuickQuid didnt agree  with this 
recommendation and so the case  has come  to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to partially uphold Mr As complaint.  Having reviewed the 
evidence I have available  I currently think QuickQuid was wrong to have given Mr A loans 1 and 2 
only. Ill explain  why.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at what Mr A and QuickQuid said.  He thought Mr As complaint should 
be partially upheld. He thought that QuickQuid had made proportionate checks for all of the loans. 
But he thought  that these checks showed that Mr A wouldnt have been able to afford  loans 1, 2, 3a 
and 4a. This is because  he thought Mr A didnt have enough disposable income to be able to make 
the repayments sustainably. 
QuickQuid didnt comment  on our adjudicators findings about the proportionality of its checks  or the 
affordability of the loans,  nor did it provide any new information for me to consider. It responded  to our 
adjudication saying:
In response to your assessment which recommends CashEuroNet UK uphold a loan which was 
funded after March 2015, we regret to inform you that we cannot agree  to your recommendations.  
Please note that in CashEuroNet UKs  initial  response to FOS we provided  detailed information 
indicating why these  loans were responsibly  lent to Mr A. I have now attached the entire  lending 
process including all the checks that we perform prior to lending, the screenshots  of customer 
applications as well as the sample acknowledgement from the contract  that customers  have to check  
when their repayment  amount is greater than their estimated disposable income.  
Ref: DRN00981054QuickQuid first mentioned  this argument in its business  submissions  to us in which  it talked about the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulations:
We started implementing changes  to affordability assessment in June 2014 and all the changes 
were completed by Feb 28th 2015. Starting 1st March,  2015 before Mr A borrowed his first loan,  
QuickQuid had implemented an affordability review that is consistent  with the FCA Handbook and that 
was in place at the time we received authorisation by the FCA. We confirm that this assessment was 
conducted properly  and individually  for each of these last five loans. 
In response to the adjudication it provided further detail about the checks it had made when it 
approved loans from 2015  onwards in a document called  CEU  Lending Criteria  and Proportional 
Checks. This further information didnt  change  our adjudicators  opinion.
This Service has responded to QuickQuid on this generic argument  directly and through earlier final 
decisions. So I am not going  to expand on this point any further here, though I have considered  it 
alongside everything else in making my decision. 
I would remind QuickQuid at this point of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance in how 
complaints are to be dealt  with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular  DISP 
1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively  applied 
in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination  by the Ombudsman to the individuals  in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman  concerning complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals 
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance  produced by the FCA, other relevant regulators and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals  dealing with complaints in the 
respondent.
My decision  will focus on the specifics of Mr As complaint  and what  both parties have said about  this.
The FCA was the regulator  at the time Mr A borrowed the loans in question. Bearing in mind  the rules 
and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC), I would expect a lenders affordability assessment to vary with circumstances. (I am not 
quoting the specific regulations here because, as before, I would expect QuickQuid to be conversant 
with these  through previous  ombudsman decisions, particularly recent decisions, which  set these  out 
in detail.) 
In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id expect  a 
lender to seek more  assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income; or
-the longer the lending relationship.
Turning to the specifics  of Mr As complaint,
QuickQuid says: 
it recorded Mr As monthly income  as being  £1,150 for loans 1 and 2 and £1,377 for loans 3 
and 4 
Ref: DRN00981055it recorded his monthly expenditure as being £1,075 for the first two loans and £1,025 for 
loans 3 and 4
it validated the information it obtained using credit reference agency data. Its provided the 
results of one of the credit checks it did
it used  the information it had gained from the credit  reports to adjust the amounts Mr A had 
provided to calculate  what it called his estimated disposable income  (EDI)  which is shown on 
my table above. 
why I think QuickQuids checks  were proportionate  for loans 1 to 4
As above, Ive seen  a record of the information Mr A provided  when he completed his loan 
applications. And I havent  seen any further information that shows its likely QuickQuid was made  
aware of any financial problems  Mr A mightve  been having. Or anything  that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances  further.  So I dont think it was unreasonable  for QuickQuid to rely on the 
information it obtained.
Overall, in these circumstances,  it seems the checks QuickQuid  did were  proportionate. But it wasnt 
enough to simply do checks. It needed to consider the results of those checks and take them into 
account in the assessment. And I think that the information QuickQuid obtained  should have led to it 
not approving  some  of the loans. 
Should QuickQuids  lending  decisions have been different given the information it obtained
For loan 1 Mr A needed  to make three monthly repayments of £11.52,  £21.6 and £122.32.  This is a 
total of £155.52. Quick Quid  recorded  that his monthly EDI was £73.50.  Over the three month loan 
term this would be £220.50.
So, over what I have  assumed are three pay periods, Mr A would  be left with around £65 or just over 
£20 a month. And so it seems unlikely that he would  be able to set very much money  aside  after the 
first two lower repayments  to be able to make the higher third one. I dont think  there is enough left 
over for Quick Quid to say that he was likely  to be able to sustainably  repay  this loan.
The, income, expenditure and EDI and repayment periods are very similar for loan 2 as in loan 1. So I 
dont think QuickQuid  shouldve approved  this loan for the same reasons. So Im intending to uphold  
Mr As complaint about loans 1 and 2. 
There was a large  break in lending  from loan 2 before  QuickQuid approved loan 3. By this time Mr As 
reported income  and EDI had increased. And as loan 3 was due to be repaid over 2 months, and Ive 
assumed two months of pay. At the start of loan 3 Mr A was due to repay a total of just over £200  
over the 45 day period.  His EDI was recorded as being £480. So I think  he had a reasonable amount 
left over to make the initial repayments to loan 3. 
But Mr A increased  this loan a few days later. This means he would need to repay around £340 over 
the lending period. This would leave him with around £100 over the month and a half term. Whilst this 
isnt a large amount left over I think, in this case, that I havent seen enough to conclude  that it was 
unreasonable for QuickQuid  to provide this loan. So Im not intending to uphold Mr As complaint  
about loan 3. 
There was a three month break between loans 3 and 4. And Mr A repaid loan 3 in full without issue. 
After he topped up loan 4 the amount he needed to repay was similar to loan 3, albeit  he had a little 
less left over.  But for the same reasons as loan 3 I cant say that QuickQuid was wrong to approve 
loan 4. So I am also not intending to uphold  this loan. 
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0098105