K820x#14I understand Ms K has previously been  declared bankrupt. The Official Receiver has said it 
retains an interest in this complaint and any compensation may form part of the estate from 
the bankruptcy.
For this reason the Official Receiver,  rather than Ms K, must decide whether to accept  or 
reject this decision.
complaint
Ms K complains  that ACF Car Finance Limited  (ACF) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in 2007. The policy  was taken 
out when Ms K applied for a hire purchase loan to buy a car. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ms Ks complaint  should  be upheld. Ms K didnt agree with our 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ks case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Ms K says she remembers  feeling  pressured into taking the PPI policy by the salesmen she 
spoke to. She says she was told that she had to take out the policy to keep the cost of the 
car she was purchasing at a price she could  afford. And she says the policy wasnt explained 
to her properly and she became confused by the number of papers she was asked to sign.
Theres no record of this meeting, which took place over ten years ago. And I dont think it 
would be fair for me to rely solely on what Ms K thinks she remembers  happening then. So 
as well as taking account of what she has said, I also need to look at all the other information 
available to me to decide how its most  likely that the policy  was sold to her.
ACF has provided a copy of the Demands and Needs Statement  which was completed  and 
signed by Ms K at the time of this sale. This shows that Ms K was presented with tick box 
options to take different types of payment protection cover available.  And I can see that 
boxes are ticked for life cover; accident and sickness  cover,  and unemployment cover.  I can 
also see that the box to tick for critical illness cover has been left blank.  Ms K has signed 
below these selections. And shes  initialled a box on a customer  declaration form 
confirming that she had agreed  to take out PPI.
Ive also looked  at the credit agreement which Ms K signed. I can see that the cost of the 
PPI premium is shown, together with the total cost of the insurance  taken  including  the 
interest to be charged on this. And I can see that Ms K has ticked a box on the agreement  to 
confirm she wanted  to purchase  PPI and signed  below this.
Ref: DRN01132992The way that PPI has been presented in all these documents makes  me think  that Ms K 
would have known  at the time that this cover was optional and that she didnt have to take it. 
Its possible that Ms K could have been misled  into thinking she needed to take the PPI and 
was unfairly pressured  into doing so in the manner she has described. But I dont think  it 
would be fair for me to conclude that this is most likely to have  happened, based only on 
Ms Ks current recollection of a meeting that took place over ten years ago. I think  its just as 
likely that she chose  to take the PPI knowing she was able to decide not to. But I can 
understand why she might not remember this now.
ACF say it advised  Ms K to take the PPI policy out. And from what Ive seen, I think this is 
most likely to have been the case.  This means it had to ensure  that the policy was suitable 
for her. I cant say whether ACF took all the steps that it should have done. But based on 
what I know of her circumstances  at the time,  I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have 
been suitable. I say this because:
Ms K appears to have been  eligible  for the policy and not affected by any of its main  
exclusions or limitations.
Ms K says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer  and could also have relied on 
her parents to help with her loan repayments  if she couldnt work. But this policy would 
have paid out in addition  to any other  means  she might have had. It could have covered 
her repayments for the remaining term of the loan if shed  been  unable to work  because 
of an accident  or illness. And it would have covered  her for up to twelve  months if she 
became unemployed. So I still think Ms K would have valued the extra  protection the 
policy gave her.
Ive no reason to think that the PPI was unaffordable for Ms K. And although she 
wouldnt have received a proportionate  refund of the policys  premium  if shed  cancelled  
it early,  Ive also no real reason to think that this was particularly likely  to happen.
ACF also needed to give Ms K enough information about the policy for her to decide if she 
wanted it. I think its quite  possible  that ACF didnt give her as good information as it should  
have done. But for much  the same reasons that I dont think  the policy was unsuitable for 
Ms K, I dont think that better  information would have changed her mind about  taking  it. I 
think shed still have  thought the policy gave her useful benefits  at an affordable cost.
So I dont  think that Ms K has lost out by anything that ACF may have done wrong when it 
sold her the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
ACF Car Finance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask the Official  
Receiver to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0113299