K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account that started in 1998. 
Mrs P says she took out the PPI when she applied for her card during a meeting at the bank.  
Theres only limited information  now available, but she may well be right about that. Lloyds 
couldnt confirm  how or exactly when PPI was sold to Mrs P.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagrees with our adjudicators  view.  
Mrs P mainly  said that she didnt recall  PPI being mentioned   and if it had been,  she said 
she wouldve declined it. And she doesnt  feel she needed it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
The original  paperwork from the sale is no longer  available. And it wouldnt be reasonable to 
rely on Mrs P being able to remember everything as it happened so long ago. So I cant 
know exactly what the bank said to Mrs P, if anything,  when she took out PPI. 
Lloyds has provided  an example  of a credit card application it was using in or about  1998. 
But I dont know if Mrs P wouldve filled in a form like this when  she took out the PPI  
because it isnt clear exactly how or when  this happened. So Im not relying on this. 
I have to look at everything  and decide  what I think is most likely. 
Based on what we know about  the way Lloyds usually sold PPI around this time, I think its 
likely that however the sale took place, Mrs P wouldve had to say if she wanted PPI  it 
wasnt automatically added onto a credit  card account. And it looks  to me as if Mrs P 
couldve benefitted from having PPI if shed needed to claim.  So, on balance, I think its more 
likely that Mrs P decided she wanted to have the benefits PPI offered  and Lloyds added  PPI 
to her account at her request,  even if understandably she no longer recalls  that. 
Lloyds said that in fairness to Mrs P it would look at her complaint  as if it had advised Mrs P 
personally to have the PPI. This means  it not only had to give her important policy  
information in a clear  way. It also had to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommended was suitable  for Mrs P.
It doesnt look as if PPI was unsuitable  for Mrs P based on what  Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time. 
Ref: DRN02803252Ive taken into account what Mrs P told us about  the sick pay she couldve relied on getting 
from her employer. But the PPI wouldve covered her for accident  or sickness,  paying  out for 
up to 12 months per claim, on top of her sick pay from work. So I think  the policy couldve 
provided a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
And the policy wouldve also paid out in the event  Mrs P lost her job unexpectedly and was 
out of work. Mrs P hasnt mentioned any significant  other means she couldve depended  on 
if she wasnt able to work. So I think PPI was suitable  for her.  
Looking at the likely policy terms, I think Mrs P was eligible for the cover.  It doesnt  look as if 
Mrs P was affected by any of the main  policy  limitations or exclusions that mightve made  it 
difficult for her to make a successful claim. 
Some of the information Lloyds gave  Mrs P about  the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  For example, I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what the policy would  
cost, or what it might  pay out if Mrs P made a claim. But it seems  to have been affordable for 
her. And Mrs P couldve cancelled the policy at any time without further  cost if her 
circumstances changed or she no longer wanted to pay for it.
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough to make me think that its likely Mrs P 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance, 
I think shed still have  taken out the policy. This means Mrs P hasnt lost out as a result of 
anything that Lloyds may have done  wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things  
right.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0280325