K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that JPMorgan Chase Bank,  N.A. (JPMorgan):
-applied excessive fees and charges to their mortgage account between  2008 and 
2016;
-these charges have  inflated the amount that they now owe on their mortgage  and 
have been used to justify taking  legal action against  them  by their new lender;  and
-forced them to pay for insurance  without explaining what cover was provided  and by 
whom, or the level of premiums that needed to be paid.
Mr L has managed the complaint throughout.
background
In 2006 Mr and Mrs L took out an interest only mortgage for around £165,000 over 20 years 
with lender A. In 2008 the mortgage  was transferred to JPMorgan. In December 2016  the 
mortgage was transferred  to another lender, lender C.
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage was in arrears for the whole period it was owned by JPMorgan. 
In late 2017 Mr and Mrs L complained  to JPMorgan. Mr L had read that compensation had 
been paid by some businesses  for unfair treatment of customers in arrears.  He thinks this 
may be relevant  to his complaint and he thinks hes paid excessive fees and charges  on his 
mortgage over the years.  Mr L also queried  whether it was fair that hed been charged for 
buildings insurance  by JPMorgan.
JPMorgan issued a final response on 27 November 2017. It didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint. It said most of the fees,  around £4,600, had been  applied before 2010 and that 
Mr L was complaining about  these fees too late. But it did say that these fees had all been 
charged in accordance with the mortgages  terms and conditions,  and its tariff of charges. 
More recently there had been field agent  visit fees and legal fees charged to the mortgage  
but JPMorgan  said these  were genuine  costs  incurred  by third parties and said it had been  
entitled to charge these to the mortgage account.
JPMorgan said it had been entitled to look at taking further legal action against Mr and Mrs L 
in 2011. It had looked to repossess  the property after Mr and Mrs L broke the conditions  of a 
suspended possession order agreed  in court  on 15 September 2009. 
JPMorgan said it was able, under the terms and conditions of the mortgage account,  to 
charge Mr and Mrs L buildings insurance  premiums from September  2014 to June 2015. 
This was because Mr and Mrs L hadnt  been able to provide  satisfactory evidence that theyd 
taken out buildings insurance  of their own for the mortgaged property during this period of 
time.
  
Mr and Mrs L were  unhappy with JPMorgans response.  They  asked us to investigate their 
complaint. 
Our investigator looked at the fees,  charges and insurance premiums applied to the 
mortgage account from January 2011. He thought  JPMorgan had acted reasonably  in 
applying charges when it had.
Ref: DRN01785842I issued a decision setting  out why we couldnt look at any fees or charges that were applied  
before 1 January 2011. This was because JPMorgan wouldnt give consent  for us to look at 
any charges before this date, and according to our rules, Mr and Mrs L were complaining too 
late about fees and charges before this time. 
Mr L disagreed with our investigators findings and replied  to say:
-he thinks the insurance charges were made without offering details of the companies 
used or how the premiums were calculated - they were simply added  because of a 
condition;
-he considers the other fees, such as for arrears,  are excessive and dont match the 
true cost of work that was done.
Mr and Mrs L asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has explained that the last few years have  been difficult and that he and Mrs L have  
struggled to pay their mortgage.  
Mr L has complained  that the charges JPMorgan  applied to his mortgage account are 
excessive. Ive looked at what fees and charges have been applied  to the mortgage from 
2011 to 2016  at the point the loan was transferred  to another  lender. 
Mr and Mrs L have also complained about the actions of their current mortgage lender, 
lender C and its decision to take legal action. This has been looked at as a separate 
complaint brought against lender C.
Ive looked at the mortgage notes from 2011 to 2016 to see how much dialogue there was 
between JPMorgan and Mr and Mrs L. Ive also thought  about  what steps JPMorgan should 
and could reasonably have taken  to try to help Mr and Mrs L with their financial difficulty over 
this period of time.
There have been  around 13 charges applied for late payments during this period (from 2011 
to 2013) as well as charges for attempted visits by field agents. Legal fees have been 
applied in 2011/12 following the failure to stick to a payment arrangement reached in court. 
late payment fees
In a situation where a mortgage  has been in longstanding arrears, Id expect JPMorgan to be 
proactively trying to contact Mr and Mrs L. JPMorgan has recorded the attempts it made  to 
speak with Mr and Mrs L. Im satisfied that its records  show that it made reasonable efforts  
to find out what  was happening with Mr and Mrs Ls financial  situation and that it tried to 
contact Mr and Mrs L to set up affordable payment  arrangements to help them get back on 
track with their mortgage payments.  
JPMorgans said that it charged late payment fees of £40 if a monthly payment had been 
missed. It wouldnt apply  a fee is the full monthly payment was made  or if Mr and Mrs L were 
in a payment arrangement and were  keeping to the arrangement.  Ive looked back at all Mr 
and Mrs Ls mortgage  statements  to check each instance in which  JPMorgan has charged a 
Ref: DRN01785843late payment fee. On each occasion the payments made have been  made late or have been 
made for less than the payment that was due. Im satisfied  that the fees have been fairly 
applied and have  been charged  in line with the mortgage tariff.
I appreciate that Mr L feels the level of fee doesnt  represent value for money.  Ive thought  
about the level of JPMorgans fees for missed  mortgage payments  over the period of the 
complaint and Ive thought about the effort that JPMorgan has put into trying to contact Mr 
and Mrs L about  their longstanding arrears.  I dont consider these late payment  fees to be 
out of line with comparable lenders fees in the industry and Im not persuaded that it was 
unreasonable for JPMorgan to charge them  in this case over the period Ive considered.
field agents
JPMorgan says it sent field agents to Mr and Mrs Ls property on three separate  occasions  
in 2013, 2014 and 2016. On all three  occasions  the mortgage arrears had reached nearly 
£2,000. JPMorgans said it arranged the visits because it was struggling to make contact 
with Mr and Mrs L about repaying their mortgage arrears and they werent in an agreed 
repayment arrangement. Its said it wanted  to find out more  about their financial 
circumstances and how it could help them get their mortgage back  on track. 
Weve seen copies  of the letters sent to Mr and Mrs L before each of these visits were 
planned to take place.  The letters say how much  the charge for the field agent  visit was, and 
how Mr and Mrs L could prevent a visit - if they got in touch with JPMorgan.
I think JPMorgan followed  a reasonable process  regarding the field agents  visits. Mr and 
Mrs L didnt get in touch with JPMorgan in the run up to the planned visits to discuss their 
mortgage or try to prevent  the expense being incurred. I think its reasonable in these three  
instanced that JPMorgan  charged the fee to Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage for the field agents  
attempted visits. 
legal fees
In 2011 Mr and Mrs L fell behind with the payment arrangement that had been  reached in 
court two years earlier. JPMorgan was considering  enforcing its possession order  - until Mr 
and Mrs L made an overpayment to the mortgage. JPMorgan has said this is why it sought 
legal advice. I think JPMorgan had a genuine  need  to take legal advice when  it did and I 
think its reasonable that the cost of this advice was passed to Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  
account in the circumstances  of this case.   
lenders interest  only insurance
There have been  times  when  Mr and Mrs L have been charged  for Lenders Interest Only 
buildings insurance.  This was then refunded by JPMorgan when they later were given proof 
that satisfactory buildings  insurance had been taken out by Mr and Mrs L directly for a period 
of time. 
It was a requirement of the mortgage  loan that Mr and Mrs Ls property was insured at all 
times and that proof of this was passed to JPMorgan. 
Weve been shown copies of the letters sent to Mr and Mrs L about the lenders only 
insurance cover. These letters include comments about the level of cover, who would  benefit  
from the cover, why it was needed and how much it cost on a monthly  and annual  basis. I 
Ref: DRN01785844consider that JPMorgan made it reasonably clear to Mr and Mrs L what cover was needed,  
why, and how much this would cost.  
I think its reasonable that JPMorgan arranged  insurance cover to protect  its own interests if 
Mr and Mrs L didnt provide evidence that they had met this condition of the mortgage.  I also 
think its reasonable that JPMorgan passed  the cost of its cover to Mr and Mrs L for periods 
when this requirement hadnt been met. This was a genuine cost to JPMorgan of Mr and Mrs 
L not meeting a condition of the mortgage  loan.
JPMorgan has refunded  the cost of the lenders insurance where  Mr and Mrs L have 
provided proof they had their own buildings insurance in place. And this seems  fair- there  
should be no need for Mr and Mrs L to have paid for buildings insurance twice.  
The only period that JPMorgan says it hasnt  refunded the insurance premiums is from 
September 2014 to June 2015. JPMorgan  has said that if Mr and Mrs L show it they had 
their own adequate insurance cover in place to meet  the terms of the mortgage for this 
period, it will refund the cost of this insurance. It says this evidence hasnt been provided  
before. I think this seems  fair in the circumstances.
I appreciate the argument that Mr and Mrs L have  made about  the insurance  being arranged 
without offering them details of the companies  used or the level of cover. However, I 
wouldnt expect JPMorgan to have consulted  with Mr and Mrs L about the type of insurance 
it wanted in place and which insurer might be best placed to provide this cover. Lenders 
Interest Only insurance protected JPMorgans interests as the lender in the event of a 
secured property being uninsured or underinsured. JPMorgan wasnt helping Mr and Mrs L 
find an insurance policy that they would be happy with. If Mr and Mrs L werent  happy  to pay 
for JPMorgans cover, this could be avoided by providing evidence of their own building 
insurance arrangements.
I know my decision will be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs L. However, for the above 
reasons, I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0178584