K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs R bought  the policy in 1999  at the same  time as taking out a loan. They  applied  
for the loan and PPI policy in-branch. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of around £320  was paid in advance by being added  to 
the loan (a single premium) where  it attracted interest over the term of the loan.  The loan 
was repayable over a 36-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan. The 
monthly loan repayment was £99.67  with the PPI costing an additional £10.64  making the 
total monthly repayment £110.31 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr R for disability, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  Mr and Mrs Rs monthly loan repayment  for up 
to 12 months in the event of unemployment  and the remaining  term in the event of a 
successful disability claim. It would repay the outstanding  balance  in full in the event of Mr 
Rs death.
Because it was Mr R who was covered by the policy, Ive only set out his circumstances 
here.
At the time,  Mr R was self-employed as an electronics  engineer. Because  he was self-
employed he was not entitled to any sick pay or redundancy  pay. He has also said neither 
he nor Mrs R had any other means  of repaying their loan should he be unable  to work. Mr R 
has said he was in good health at the time of the sale.  
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2002.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Rs representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs R 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Rs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr and Mrs R about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN03519602The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs R 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr and Mrs R received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN03519603There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs R with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN03519604-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs R, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs R 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs R 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs R know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Nationwide has provided copies of the paperwork from the time of sale.  The first is the loan 
application (a printed copy from a screen-based  application  process)  which was used to 
discuss Mr and Mrs Rs loan requirements. Here  I can see the representative was prompted 
to ask Mr and Mrs R if they wanted PPI by selecting Yes or No from a dropdown pick list. 
And Yes has been selected.
The second  piece of paperwork is the loan agreement Mr and Mrs R signed.  And here I can 
see the cost of the PPI was set out clearly and separately from the main loan in a column  
headed Optional Credit Insurance   presumably reflecting Mr and Mrs Rs decision they 
made in their loan application. 
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs R knew  the policy  
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr and Mrs R havent said either  
way. Looking at what happened when Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs R the PPI, Im not 
persuaded that it provided advice  Ive not seen  anything  which  suggests Nationwide  
considered Mr and Mrs Rs needs and circumstances and recommended the cover to them.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs R. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Mr and 
Mrs R to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
the information
Ref: DRN03519605Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr R was unable to work through disability and unemployment.) I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr and Mrs R would have taken out the policy  without 
any sense of what the policy was. And I think Mr and Mrs R knew that the single premium 
being added to the loan was £320.47, the interest  added  to the premium was £62.57 the 
total cost was £383.04 and the monthly  cost was £10.64 - this information was, in my view, 
sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mr and Mrs R signed. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
and Mrs R agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised a 
number of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Rs. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Rs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs R about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Rs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs R has suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs R? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs R suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs R. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs R suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs R would have still taken out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly.
Ref: DRN03519606Mr and Mrs R say they would not have taken  it out and believes I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs R had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs R chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs R thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs R has suffered  any loss 
or detriment.  
As Ive already  said, the information Mr and Mrs R were given about the cost was clear.  But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs R would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Rs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their loan payments)  were significantly different to what  the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs R thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr R knew  about or 
ought to have known about  on the start date of the policy,  or anything he sought 
treatment or advice for in the 12 months  before the start date; and
 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr R was 
a contract worker.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs R pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs R from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  useful  to both Mr 
and Mrs R should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  
to suggest he wouldve  been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr R didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and although  he was self-employed, unlike some other 
policies, there were no additional  requirements  or limitations on him claiming for 
unemployment. So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
Ref: DRN03519607The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs R would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr R needed  to be unable to do any work as certified  by a doctor. 
I dont think this is likely to be too different  if any different - to what he would have 
expected to make a claim. 
Based on our understanding of how Nationwides  policies  worked,  the policy did provide a 
pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early, so the policy provided flexibility  if Mr and Mrs R 
decided to repay the loan early and cancel  the policy.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs R would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  were  Mr R made  unemployed or unable  to work through 
disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Rs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs R would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Rs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position Mr 
and Mrs R found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs R believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs R in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN03519608That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs R compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs R thinks Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the policy 
in how it described  the PPI. Whilst I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some 
of Nationwides  statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mr and 
Mrs R, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1999  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Rs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Nationwide  negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs R and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Nationwide  had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs R in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0351960