K821x#15complaint
Miss O complains  that TSB Bank  plc irresponsibly gave  her an overdraft and later increased 
that overdraft limit.
background
Miss O applied  for an overdraft in August 2018  but TSB refused the application and told her 
that any lending  would  be irresponsible as she was spending her money on gambling and 
payday loans.  Miss O then questioned why TSB had approved her previous overdraft 
applications which were  later converted into loans which  she says she couldnt afford. She 
says TSB gave her a £1,000  overdraft  which was converted into a loan then some time later 
allowed her to have  a £3,000 overdraft which again  was converted into a loan.
Miss O says she has taken out over a hundred payday loans and has spent a significant 
amount of money  on gambling. She says TSBs lending  was unaffordable and irresponsible 
and would like all charges  and interest refunded.
TSB says both loans  refinanced existing debt and so didnt increase Miss Os debt and it 
was not new lending. It says the interest rate on the loans  was lower than Miss O would 
have paid if the overdraft hadnt  been converted to the loans. TSB says it referred Miss O to 
a debt help organisation  in 2014 and that the first loan was paid regularly until it ended in 
November 2016.  It says it declined further  lending in May 2015 but approved  the overdraft 
application in November 2015  as there  were regular credits to the account and Miss O was 
managing the loan.  TSB says it didnt  take account  of the type of expenditure and says its 
unlikely Miss O would  have told it the reason  for the borrowing was for gambling  in any 
event. It says its treated  Miss O positively and sympathetically but accepts it gave Miss O 
incorrect information and has paid her £56 compensation.
Miss O brought her complaint to us with a list of her debts and borrowing. Our adjudicator  
considered the complaint and thought overall  TSB had dealt fairly with it and had acted 
positively and sympathetically to Miss Os position.  The adjudicator provided all of the 
background to the borrowing and thought TSB had tried to help Miss O by converting  the 
overdrafts into loans  with lower interest  rates.  And any charges  were made in line with the 
account terms and conditions. The adjudicator thought there were regular payments into 
Miss Os accounts and thought TSB was entitled  to make commercial decisions on lending. 
Miss O didnt  accept that view and says in summary  it was irresponsible to keep lending  to 
her whilst she gambled and used regular payday lending  whilst having a small wage paid 
into her account.
my provisional view
I issued a provisional view on this complaint and said in summary  that some  of TSBs 
lending was irresponsible and unaffordable.
I looked through TSBs records and saw that the overdraft was approved in July 2012 but by 
October 2012 TSB was aware that Miss O was in financial  difficulties  as its records have a 
note about those difficulties. In 2014  after a financial assessment  TSB converted  Miss Os 
overdraft into a loan which  was paid regularly. And in May 2015 Miss O applied for another  
loan but this was refused by TSB. So I thought at this stage TSB hadnt lent irresponsibly. 
And had acted fairly by converting  the overdraft into a loan which  I thought would have 
Ref: DRN08589682meant Miss O paid far less in interest as the loan interest was significantly less than the 
overdraft charges and interest. I also thought TSB was or ought  to have been aware that 
Miss O had financial difficulties and I think that is the reason  why it refused her loan 
application in May 2015  and why it converted the overdraft into a loan.
In those circumstances I said I would have expected TSB to look carefully at any further  
application for credit by Miss O. I also think that by May 2015 TSB ought to have been aware 
of Miss Os gambling problem. I say that as looking at Miss Os account statements, as TSB 
must have  done  to have considered the loan application in 2015. And the financial 
assessment shortly before, would have shown  that Miss O was carrying  out hundreds of 
gambling transactions. And that she was in receipt of benefits  but her income  was 
supplemented by occasional gambling winnings. I accepted Miss O also had a regular wage.
I appreciated TSB says that its systems  create a Shadow Decision  on such  matters  as an 
overdraft facility in principle and that had Miss O applied for an overdraft in a branch then it 
would have looked closer at that application.  And that it doesnt consider the type of 
transactions. But for the reasons I explained I was satisfied TSB already knew by the time of 
the overdraft application  in October  2015 that Miss O had been in financial difficulties and 
had a spending problem. So I said that I would have expected  TSB to have recognised  that 
by placing a note on its systems not to approve  online overdraft applications  without a 
detailed consideration. I thought not to do so was irresponsible and allowed Miss O to 
immediately use the overdraft to spend  in the manner she did. I was satisfied that allowing a 
customer to have an overdraft is borrowing and is no different to approving a loan for 
example.
I could see that TSB then increased Miss Os overdraft limit one month later to £1,600 and in 
December 2015  increased the limit to£ 2,000. I didnt think  TSB had explained why it did that 
or if it carried out an assessment. I could see from Miss Os account statements  that she 
used the new overdraft limits to increase  her spending up towards the overdraft limit. During 
2016 Miss O continued to spend heavily and was taking  out a number of short  term loans 
and her overdraft was close throughout to the limit. There were  occasional credits from 
gambling winnings. But TSB then increased Miss Os overdraft limit to £3,000 in October 
2016. Miss O then followed what I thought was by now her usual pattern by using that new 
overdraft limit to spend significantly  and use short term lending.  And again  I couldnt see that 
TSB carried out any affordability checks at that time.
I said that I appreciated that it was up to Miss O how she spends her money  and that it 
would not ordinarily  be for a bank or building society to tell a customer  what he or she should 
or should not be spending money on. But I was of the provisional view that TSB ought to 
have known that if it lent to Miss O then it likely she would  spend immediately and have 
difficulty repaying it. I could also see that TSB refused a lending application from Miss O for 
those same reasons.  So I didnt think TSB acted responsibly in dealing with the overdraft 
increases from October 2015 to October 2016  and ought to have carried out detailed 
assessments of all of them and monitored  how Miss O was using the exiting overdraft facility 
before simply increasing them.
I accepted that the decision to convert the first overdraft  to a loan may have assisted Miss O. 
But it must follow that if I think that the decision to grant the overdraft in October 2015 was 
irresponsible and should not have  been  made then it also follows  that a loan wouldnt have 
been needed in the first place.
Ref: DRN08589683To put matters right my provisional  view was that TSB should refund any charges, interest 
and fees incurred as a result of approving an overdraft from October 2015 to when that 
overdraft was converted into a loan in or around  November 2017. I also thought that TSB 
ought to refund any interest charges and fees in respect of that loan and allow  Miss O to 
repay that loan without  future interest  or charge. I also thought the fairest  approach would be 
to apply any refunded  money to the capital balance Miss O owes  TSB and for TSB to amend 
her credit file.
I was satisfied that Miss O had the benefit  of the money  and so I thought  Miss O should 
repay the money she owes TSB.  And I could see that Miss O agreed with that view.
Miss O has replied  to my provisional view and whilst  she has some questions  about previous 
overdrafts she largely  accepts my view.
TSB doesnt accept my provisional  view and says in summary that it did apply  strict flags  to 
prevent further  borrowing  in May 2015  and that it was Miss Os decision  to apply for the 
further overdrafts. It says Miss O agreed to those  overdrafts and didnt tell it about  spending  
problems. TSB says its not appropriate to remove the default as that may allow her to apply 
for further  credit and says it was in October 2014 that Miss O had been in financial 
difficulties. It says it didnt  force credit on Miss O but it was she that applied for it.
my findings
Ive re- considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as I reached in my provisional decision.
I appreciate that TSB says it was Miss Os decision to apply for further  credit  and did not 
force credit on her. But I dont think that means  it was responsible  for TSB to simply allow 
the lending. I have explained in my provisional  view that lending  ought to be responsible  and 
proportionate and appropriate checks carried out and in this case  such  checks were not 
carried out as I would have expected.
I dont think it matters  that Miss O didnt  tell TSB that she had spending problems or what  
that problem was. I think the key point is that I find that the credit  was unaffordable and 
appropriate checks as carried out in the past would  have  shown  that. I have also made  clear  
in my provisional view that I dont  think TSB carried out any monitoring of the overdraft and 
simply approved the applications for increases without any real consideration.
I understand why TSB says the default should not be removed so to prevent further lending 
by other  lenders. But I also think that if the lending was irresponsible  that it ought to follow  
that Miss Os credit file be updated  to the correct position.
Ref: DRN08589684my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  TSB Bank  plc to refund any 
charges, interest  on the overdraft from October  2015 until that overdraft was converted  into a 
loan. And that it refund  any interest  or charges on the loan and allow  Miss O to repay  that 
loan without future interest or charge as well as amend  her credit file to reflect  the position 
when those changes  are made. All refunds should be applied  to the amount Miss O owes 
TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0858968