K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander  UK Plc placed a block  on their account. They say this 
caused them  financial distress and would like compensation.
Background
In late April 2019, Mrs C set up an online payment transfer from her and Mr Cs joint 
account. This payment triggered a review and Mr and Mrs Cs account was blocked. 
A few days  after the initial  block was placed, Mrs C raised a complaint. Mr and Mrs C were 
told by Santander  to go into branch with their photo identification, however the block  wasnt  
removed.
Mr and Mrs C found the situation distressing; they had a young  baby who they say they 
struggled to care for due to not having  access to their money.  Mr and Mrs C also say their 
regular Direct Debits werent  paid because of the block and theyve incurred charges as a 
result. In early May, Santander finalised  their review and unblocked Mr and Mrs Cs account. 
Mr and Mrs C brought  the complaint to our service. The investigator said Santander were  
entitled to review the account. He also didnt think  there had been any unnecessary  delays; 
so he didnt uphold  the complaint.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy. Theyre not happy  about  having to go into branch and 
being fined for late payments because their Direct  Debit  payments didnt go through.  The 
complaint has been passed to me to review. I issued a provisional decision in June 2020. In 
it I said;
The review  and block
I recognise how frustrating it must  have  been for Mr and Mrs C to realise  their payment 
transfer hadnt been paid and they couldnt use their account. And I appreciate  this put them  
in a financially  challenging position  especially as they had a young baby at the time. But a 
bank cant always guarantee that funds in an account are readily available.
All banks  in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order  to meet  their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required  to carry out ongoing  monitoring of an 
existing relationship. That sometimes means  they need to review and sometimes  block  
customers accounts. Santander have said that Mr and Mrs Cs accounts were reviewed and 
blocked to meet these legal requirements.
Having looked  at all the available information and circumstances of this complaint, Im 
satisfied that Santander  was complying  with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed and blocked the account. So, I cant say they have done anything  wrong.  
The branch  visits
Mr and Mrs C say they went into the branch on three occasions.  However,  the contact notes 
Santander has provided dont confirm this. Nonetheless, I dont think the number of visits 
makes an overall difference. I say that because, as part of a review,  its common for a bank 
to ask their customers to confirm their identity face to face.  So, while  I appreciate the branch 
Ref: DRN01339972visits may have been inconvenient for Mr and Mrs C, I cant  fairly  say they were unnecessary 
if they formed part of the overall  review.
The Direct Debits and late payment charges
Santander have  sent me a copy of Mr and Mrs Cs statement from the time they carried out 
the review. I can see the account was blocked  for a total of 11 calendar days. Ive also seen 
from the statement  some transactions were still honoured during this time.  While I appreciate  
Mr and Mrs C say they had Direct  Debits which were unpaid, I havent seen any evidence of 
this. And I havent seen  that Santander  have applied any late payment charges.
However, even if Mr and Mrs C did have Direct  Debits unpaid, Ive explained  above  why 
Santander were entitled  to review and block the account. So, I wouldnt be able to fairly 
uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint on this point alone.
So, in summary,  I thought  Santander  had acted fairly  in the circumstances  and I didnt think 
they needed to do anything differently.
Mr and Mrs C didnt respond  to my provisional  decision. Santander responded and didnt  
have anything further to add.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Neither Mr and Mrs C, or Santander, provided any further evidence  or arguments. Therefore, 
I dont see any reason to depart from the findings  I reached in the provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 September 2020.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0133997