K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2001. Mr and Mrs M say OneSavings  Bank Plc, trading as Kent Reliance, mis-
sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Kent Reliance has said that Mr and Mrs M had to take out PPI in order  to get the mortgage  
they applied for. But just because Mr and Mrs M had to have PPI with the mortgage they 
applied for, doesnt  mean that the PPI was mis-sold.
Kent Reliance has sent us a copy of the offer of advance  for Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage. And 
this said that they were  required  to take out PPI. So I think Kent Reliance made  it clear  to 
Mr and Mrs M that they had to have the PPI with their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs M have  said this was the only mortgage  offer they had, so they didnt have a 
choice about the PPI. But the letter from their financial  advisor suggests other lenders were  
available. So I think Mr and Mrs M couldve applied to different lenders if they didnt want  the 
PPI. And, in any event,  I think  Mr and Mrs M were happy to have the PPI in order  to get this 
mortgage.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Kent Reliance gave Mr and Mrs M any personalised 
advice about the PPI. So I dont  think it recommended the PPI to them. This means 
Kent Reliance didnt  have to check if the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs M. But it did have to 
make sure they got the information they needed  to decide if the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information Kent Reliance  gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like Mr and Mrs M were  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than theyve told us they wouldve received 
sick pay. And theyve  told us they didnt have  any savings or other means they couldve  used 
to make their repayments if they werent  earning. So the PPI would  have been  useful for 
Mr and Mrs M if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr and Mrs M off taking it out.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs M paid on their PPI  and whether 
Kent Reliance treated  them unfairly.
Kent Reliance has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ms PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Kent Reliance has been  working  this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ms commission  was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about 
Ref: DRN05167182the commission  so I dont think Kent Reliance treated them unfairly.  This means  it doesnt  
need to pay Mr and Mrs M back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
Mr and Mrs M have  said they asked to cancel  the PPI in 2007 and theyve sent us copies of 
the letters they sent to Kent Reliance about this. Kent Reliance has said it couldnt  cancel  
the policy after the first letter as it wasnt signed by both Mr and Mrs M. It says it sent 
Mr and Mrs M a form to complete to cancel the policy but never received this back.
Even if Mr and Mrs M did send a valid cancellation  request back  to Kent Reliance, they dont 
appear to have followed this up for a number of years  afterwards.  Kent Reliance has also 
sent us evidence that Mr and Mrs M asked about  making a claim on the PPI in 2010,  which  
suggests they were  aware it hadnt  been  cancelled and still wanted it. So I dont think  it 
would be reasonable to require Kent Reliance to pay back  any of the PPI premiums or any 
compensation as a result of this.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0516718