K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc acted unfairly when he part redeemed 
one property in his portfolio mortgage as it required  him to reduce the borrowing on the 
additional property  in the portfolio. Mr E would like £8,300 returned  to him together  with 
compensation for the time he has spent on this and his inconvenience.
background
Mr E had two buy to let properties on a portfolio mortgage with TMW.  Mr E wanted  to 
redeem the borrowing on one of the properties  to get a better rate elsewhere. Mr E was 
given a redemption  figure not solely on the borrowing on the property he wished to redeem 
but a figure  that took into account the loan to value ratios (LTV) of both properties. Mr E 
says that TMW shouldnt do this and that it cant choose an arbitrary LTV percentage.
In order to get one property  released and to be able to meet TMWs conditions Mr H had to 
invest £15,300 into the second property.  Mr H says that he made a goodwill offer of £7,000 
to part redeem the second mortgage and would like TMW to accept this and return the 
balance to him.
When a customer applies to redeem  a mortgage  within a TMW  property portfolio, TMW  
operates according to guidelines for a release of property referred  to as ROP Guidance  
notes. TMW says that this is the process  it used when Mr E wanted to release  one of the 
properties from the mortgage.  
Our adjudicator felt that TMW  had done  nothing wrong and didnt  recommend that this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Mr E disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has a portfolio mortgage. The portfolio contained two properties. The first property 
contained a Special condition 5 in the mortgage  offer of September 2005 which said: 
Your attention is drawn to the fact that under the mortgage terms all properties charged  by 
you to us will form the security for all monies owed to us. This could be particularly significant  
if we are asked to consider the release of property during the term of the mortgage. 
This was repeated  in the second mortgage offer of March 2006 at Special Condition 7 rather than 
5. Mr E says in his email  to us of 18 March 2019 that this does not explicitly  state that should  a 
property be redeemed then the mortgage  company  is entitled to seek redemption of all properties. 
But in addition to the mortgage  offer the mortgages would be subject to TMWs Mortgage 
Conditions. I note that both offers refer to the Mortgage Conditions  being enclosed with the 
mortgage offer which indicates that Mr E should  have been  aware  of them.  Section 15 (c) on 
the Mortgage Conditions 2004  is fairly  explicit on this point. It says that We (TMW) will not 
release any property we are holding as security until you have paid us all the money you owe.
Ref: DRN00581582It seems  to be a term under which TMW agreed to loan money to Mr E that if he wanted to release 
a property from the mortgage  then he must  pay off all the debt in full. I note that in this case that 
Mr H had a broker advising him so that TMW didnt advise him on the mortgage  he took out and 
didnt mislead him into a belief that he could  release  each property from the mortgage  separately. 
I should add that in my experience such a term isnt unusual in a commercial mortgage.
TMW doesnt in fact insist  on a strict adherence to that. It operates  its redemption process in 
line with Guidance  Notes for Release of Properties  or the ROP Guidance. This is TMWs 
procedure to allow, as the Guidance says,  one or more properties  to be sold or 
remortgaged without fully redeeming  the portfolio mortgage account. There is a section 
headed How is the ROP figure calculated? which says that TMW will provide a ROP  figure 
to maintain the loan to value and rental  cover. 
TMW appears to have been operating  according to this Guidance for some  time and has 
provided us with a copy of the broker facing sales literature that it says applied when Mr E 
took out the mortgage.  So, TMW calculated a figure to release one of the properties  
according to this ROP guidance.
Mr E makes  several  complaints which I considered in detail. I believe they are in summary 
that he shouldnt  be subject to the ROP  Guidance  as he wasnt aware of it and it didnt form 
part of the mortgage contract; that the ROP Guidance operates  unfairly and that the 
valuations on which the partial redemption figure is based are wrong.
The difficulty  with the first argument is that Mr E agreed to more  strict terms than the ROP 
Guidance. The terms he agreed would require  him to redeem both mortgages which he 
didnt want to do. Although in strict legal  terms it would appear that TMW could require that 
he redeems both mortgages, it doesnt insist  on it but operates according to the ROP 
Guidance. As I understand it TMWs ROP Guidance would  have been  available to Mr Es 
broker who recommended  the product to Mr E and it seems  that for some time TMW  has 
been operating  on this basis.
So, according to the mortgage contract, TMW could have required a higher redemption figure 
and the manner in which TMW operated its release of property would have been available  to 
the broker who recommended  the mortgage  to Mr E. Given  that, I dont believe that it was 
unfair of TMW to use the ROP Guidance  as the basis  for calculating how much  it required from 
Mr E when he wanted to release one of the properties from the portfolio mortgage.
TMW appears to have calculated its redemption figure  in line with its Guidance which is to 
maintain the loan to value and rental cover based upon the last valuations  carried  out by 
TMW and current mortgage balance outstanding. Although I understand that Mr E might 
want something different  that doesnt seem  to be unfair if TMW  wants to maintain the same 
level of security after releasing one of the properties  as it had before. I note that in his email 
of 18 March Mr E asks me to consider several hypothetical situations and what  would TMW  
do in those situations. I can only deal with the present situation and it seems  to me that if 
TMW followed its Guidance and didnt  depart  from it to penalise  Mr E that it has done 
nothing wrong. Nor do I consider that its relevant that TMW may apply a different LTV to 
new customers who may be operating  under a different  mortgage  contract  than Mr E.
As I read it in the email  of March, Mr E doesnt disagree with the figures eventually  quoted  
rather his dispute  is with the basis of the calculation. I noted  that the actual redemption figure 
was amended when the valuations were reviewed. Mr E had the ability  to get the valuations  
reviewed within the terms of the Guidance and the calculation  is in line with the Guidance.  
So, I dont consider that the valuations or redemption figure was unfair.
Ref: DRN00581583Mr Es dispute is with the Guidance itself. Mr E wonders why any reasonable person would 
take out such a mortgage. My view is that TMW set out its terms when Mr E took out the 
mortgage. Under the Mortgage Conditions Mr E would have to repay the debt in full if he 
wanted to redeem one of the properties. If Mr E was unhappy with that he should  have  
acquainted himself with whether TMW operated any moderation of those terms. TMW says 
its Guidance and its basis for calculating the redemption  figure  would have been available  to 
Mr Es broker who advised him on taking  out the mortgage. So given that and that TMW 
appears to have followed the ROP Guidance in coming to a partial  redemption  figure  I cant  
say that TMW acted unfairly and I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0058158