K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Ulster Bank  Ltd mis-sold them a U First Gold packaged 
bank account  in 2012. They pay a monthly fee for the account which  provides several 
benefits in return.
background
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Ulster  Bank mis-sold the U First Gold  account to 
Mr and Mrs S and didnt recommend that Ulster Bank should pay them  any compensation. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree so they asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and 
make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr and Mrs Ss complaint a lot of thought,  I dont think  the U First Gold account 
was mis-sold to them. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs S were given a fair choice when they took 
their packaged bank account.
It looks as though Mr and Mrs Ss account was opened as a U First Gold  account. And Ive 
noted theyve  said they were  told they had to open  a packaged account in order to take a 
mortgage with Ulster  Bank.
I can see that Mr and Mrs S did apply for a mortgage at the same  time as opening their 
account. But having reviewed the mortgage offer they received, I can also see that the 
mortgage deal they signed up to was a rate exclusive to U First Gold  account holders. 
I think its unlikely that Ulster Bank told Mr and Mrs S that they had to have  a packaged bank  
account to have any mortgage.  But its likely it wouldve told them  they needed to have a 
packaged account  in this case a U First Gold account  in order  to take the specific  
mortgage deal that they took.  And Ulster Bank  wasnt wrong to do that. As the mortgage rate 
Mr and Mrs S signed up to wasnt available to all customers, but only to those with a U First 
Gold account, Ulster Bank wasnt wrong to tell them they needed a U First Gold account in 
order to have it.
On balance, Im not persuaded  that Ulster Bank  left Mr and Mrs S with no option  but to take 
the U First Gold  account  in order to be able to take out a mortgage. I think its more likely 
they had a conversation about the U First Gold accounts preferential mortgage  rate benefit, 
and Mr and Mrs S chose to take the account because  that appealed to them.
Ref: DRN02806592I dont think that Ulster Bank recommended the U First Gold account  to Mr and Mrs S. So 
whilst it didnt have to check if the account was suitable for them,  it had to give them  enough 
information for them to make that decision for themselves.
Like our adjudicator, I think that Mr and Mrs S were interested in some of the U First Gold  
accounts other benefits, as well as the preferential mortgage rates  that Ive already 
mentioned. Ulster Bank says that Mr S registered  to use the accounts  online benefits 
service around two weeks after opening the account, and he also made  a phone call to 
enquire about the accounts inclusive travel  insurance. Ulster Bank also says that a number 
of years later Mr and Mrs S registered  two mobile  phones under the accounts mobile phone 
insurance policy. I accept that Mr and Mrs S may not have  used or made  claims on all of the 
accounts benefits, but this doesnt mean Ulster  Bank  mis-sold  the account.  
I note that Ulster Bank says it has sent Mr and Mrs S a number of letters in relation to their U 
First Gold account over the years of them holding it  including  information on the accounts  
benefits. It looks as though  a letter they wouldve received at some point in 2014  gave them  
the option of closing their account, or downgrading it to a fee-free one. But as Mr and Mrs S 
kept their account  at that point, and appear  to still hold it, Im persuaded that Ulster Bank told 
them about  the accounts features when it sold the account, and they wanted to continue to 
benefit from having them in place.
Its possible that Ulster Bank didnt tell Mr and Mrs S everything it should  have about the U 
First Gold account. But as I think they chose to take the account  primarily for the preferential  
mortgage deals,  I havent seen enough to make me think that Mr and Mrs S wouldnt  still 
have taken the account, even if Ulster  Bank had told them  more  about it. 
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs S that Ive looked  at all the information I have about their 
complaint. And Ive thought carefully  about  everything theyve said  including what  theyve 
said about Ulster Bank not being  allowed to link taking a packaged account  with discounted 
rates on other products  and services. But for the reasons Ive explained I dont think Ulster 
Bank has treated  Mr and Mrs S unfairly  or mis-sold the U First Gold  account to them. So I 
dont think it owes them any money.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold their 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0280659