K821x#15complaint
M, a limited company, has complained about problems accessing the business bank account 
it held with TSB Bank plc. M is represented by its director, Mr P  who says the problems 
caused costs  and losses for M, as well as damaging the businesss reputation with its 
suppliers. 
background
M had a business  bank  account with TSB for several years.  In November 2017 Mr P made a 
complaint after having trouble logging into Ms bank account. Hed visited  a TSB branch  and 
theyd helped him reset the log in details. But Mr P wasnt  happy  with the service hed 
received, or with a number of other things about TSBs business  banking facilities. 
In April 2018 TSB moved all its customers to a new computer system.  There were 
widespread and well-publicised problems with this migration, which affected a lot of 
customer accounts  including  Ms. Mr P said he was no longer able to access  Ms account 
online and when he visited a branch  they could only find the account by searching  for his 
personal account first. 
Mr P said the ongoing lack of access to Ms account  had a significant impact. He said he had 
to close the business several  times  and spend hours in his local branch. A number of Ms 
suppliers were chasing for overdue payments and some of them  started legal action, or 
removed credit facilities from M.
Mr P said hed also been concerned he might not be able to pay Ms landlord.  And he said 
he hadnt been able to pay one of Ms staff members  or pay his own salary from Ms account  
to his personal account.
By July 2018  Ms online banking still wasnt fixed,  so Mr P moved  the account to a different 
bank which  charges a monthly fee. Mr P wanted  TSB to cover those fees and pay 
substantial compensation for the costs  and reputational  damage he said TSB caused to M. 
TSB had responded to Mr Ps November 2017  complaint  by apologising that it apparently 
took several hours for branch staff to help Mr P. TSB paid £55 to Ms account for this. 
For the April 2018  problems, TSB accepted  it hadnt been able to restore  Ms online banking. 
But it said Mr P could  still have made  payments using telephone banking  or in branch.  TSB 
offered £300 to compensate M for the time Mr P spent in branch and the inconvenience 
caused. 
Our investigator concluded that TSBs offer was fair compensation for the problems with Ms 
account. But Mr P strongly  disagreed with this. He suggested TSB should pay several  
thousand pounds  in compensation. 
As the case couldnt  be resolved informally it was passed to me, and I issued a provisional 
decision.
what I said in my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision about this complaint at the same time as my provisional  
decision on a complaint Mr P had also made  about his personal account.
Ref: DRN00164082I explained to Mr P that I wasnt able to make an award for the emotional impact hed said 
the problems with Ms account had on him. This is because the complainant here is the 
limited company, M, which is a separate legal entity from Mr P himself. So I couldnt make 
any award for Mr Ps annoyance, worry or distress. What I had to think  about was whether 
the problems operating  the business  account  had caused any costs  or losses for M.
Mr P had told us the problems with Ms account  went back  a long time before April 2018.  
So I looked  into what hed said. I saw that Mr P had gone through  the early  stages of making 
a complaint to us in September 2017.  Our limited records  suggest  it was about the cash  
deposit facilities TSB offered its business  banking  customers. Mr P wanted  to be able to 
deposit cash into Ms business  account  using the ATM.  
TSB responded by saying it offered the cash deposit facility to personal banking customers  
but not business banking  ones. I said TSB hadnt done anything  wrong  by making  a 
commercial decision not to offer that particular  service to business  banking customers, even 
though I could understand why Mr P wouldve liked it to. And I also explained that TSB didnt 
have to provide  the other business facilities Mr P said he wanted   like dedicated branch 
counters and relationship managers, or 24/7 access to the business banking contact centre.
TSBs contact notes indicated that the problem  Mr P had logging  into Ms account in 
November 2017  was caused by Mr P using the wrong memorable word.  The notes didnt 
show that Mr P had raised any other  complaints about problems logging  into Ms account 
before April 2018. And the bank statements indicated that the account was operating 
normally with payments in and out, including frequent online payments. So I thought £55 
seemed to be fair compensation for this particular incident. 
I acknowledged that Mr P clearly did have significant problems with Ms account from April 
2018 onwards.  He lost online access to the account and that was never restored. And 
branch staff could only find the account  by searching for Mr Ps personal account first. 
I accepted that losing online access would  have caused disruption for Mr P  as he clearly  
preferred to pay Ms suppliers this way. But I weighed that up against the fact that Mr P had 
still been able to make some payments,  to Ms landlord and some suppliers, either in the 
branch or by using the business debit card. A lot of the letters,  emails  and invoices from the 
suppliers also showed theyd been chasing for payments  for some time before April 2018.  
But Mr P seemed to have  decided to wait for TSB to fix Ms online banking  access before 
making these payments   instead  of exploring other ways to pay. 
So I didnt think TSB could be held responsible for the fact that some of Ms suppliers  had 
taken further action or added charges to Ms accounts when they werent paid. And I 
reached the same conclusion about the salary payment Mr P said he couldnt make  to Ms 
staff member, and to his own personal account.  It seemed  to me that Mr P could have asked 
the branch  or telephone banking  to make these transfers whilst he waited for Ms online 
banking to be restored.  That could have minimised any significant impact on Mr Ps personal  
account and meant he wouldnt  have had to rely on his overdraft.  
Mr P had also mentioned  being unable to make  a lump sum payment to a utility company M 
was in dispute with. He said this meant  M missed the chance to negotiate a payment plan 
with this supplier.  Wed  asked Mr P to send  evidence  of that so we could consider it further, 
but he hadnt provided any. I noted  that the points Id made about the payments to Ms 
Ref: DRN00164083suppliers appeared  to apply to this utility  payment  too. But I invited  Mr P to send  me 
evidence of this arrangement if he wanted  me to look at this point again. 
I thought about  what  Mr P had said about the time he spent in the branch, and the effect that 
had on his business. And I noted that he was particularly  unhappy  with one branch visit 
where he said the manager wouldnt attend to him and he spent several hours  in the branch.
I also accepted  that the problems finding the account  as well as the fact that TSBs 
branches and telephone  banking were extremely busy immediately after the migration 
problems  would be likely to have taken up more of Mr Ps time. And that in turn would  have 
an effect on M.  
But I also considered  that Mr P regularly went to the branch to pay in the cash takings from 
the business anyway. From  what hed told us it also seemed to me that hed spent a lot of 
the time in the branch trying to get them to fix Ms online  banking   which the branch wasnt  
realistically going to be able to do  rather than using that time to make payments to Ms 
suppliers. 
I noted that Mr P said he lost business  whilst in the branch. But while hed showed us what  
he typically charged customers for goods and services he hadnt provided evidence  that M 
had directly missed out on custom  or had to refund any money  to customers  because  Mr P 
wasnt available to help them. 
I accepted that any loss of Mr Ps time would directly impact M, as Mr P is running the 
business himself. And that the lack of online access had disrupted Mr Ps usual routine and 
meant he likely spent  more time in the branch than normal.  But, taking everything into 
account I felt the £300 TSB had offered was a reasonable  level of compensation for this. 
I didnt agree that TSB should pay anything towards the monthly fees M is being charged by 
its new bank. Mr P could still have made payments  from Ms TSB account, even if it wasnt 
as convenient  as online banking. And other  aspects of Ms TSB account were running 
normally, including direct debits and payments into the account.  So Mr P had the option to 
accept some inconvenience and stay with TSB while he waited for the online banking  issue  
to be resolved.
Instead Mr P moved Ms account to another bank which provided a different account, with 
different facilities and which came at an extra  cost.  This also meant Mr P could find a bank 
with business  banking facilities more suited to Ms needs, but which TSB didnt offer.  I didnt 
think it would  be reasonable to expect  TSB to pay for that. 
TSBs and Ms response  to my provisional  decision
I invited the parties  to respond to my provisional  findings if there  was anything else they 
wanted me to consider but thought  I hadnt  already seen.   
TSB hasnt  commented on my provisional findings in this case  (but it doesnt have to, unless 
it has anything to add).
Mr P (on Ms behalf) said he disagrees  with my provisional decision on this case  and the 
related case. He doesnt think Ive taken  notice of everything hes said about the stress and 
inconvenience not being able to access all his accounts caused. Hes asked me to consider 
all the emails and correspondence  hes had with us about his complaints and says he isnt 
prepared to accept  the amount of compensation Ive recommended. He also says he was 
Ref: DRN00164084previously told by someone at the ombudsman service that he was entitled  to a good  few 
thousands of pounds in compensation. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I issued my provisional decision in this case (and the related case) I reviewed 
everything Mr P (on behalf of M) and TSB had said and provided. That included listening to 
the calls Mr P had with various  people at this service  and taking into account  what hes told 
us and weve told him, over the phone and in writing.  
However, my role as an ombudsman is to look at the whole case with fresh  eyes  and decide 
what I think a fair and reasonable outcome is, in all the circumstances. And thats what Ive 
done here. 
I realise Mr P feels very strongly about his TSB complaints. But after thinking about 
everything again and also looking at what hes now said in response to my provisional 
decision, Im not persuaded to change my findings.
I have to repeat what I previously said about  who is actually able to bring this particular 
complaint. This complaint  is about  how TSB operated the business account of the limited  
company, M. So M is bringing this complaint, with Mr P representing it as a director.  That 
means I cant make any award for emotional suffering in this case, no matter  how upset and 
frustrated Mr P was by not being  able to use online banking  on Ms account.
I also made a number of detailed  points about  the actions I think Mr P could have taken to 
minimise any impact the migration problems had on Ms account and on Ms relationships 
with its suppliers. And I invited Mr P to send me evidence of the utility company arrangement 
he said M had missed out on. Mr P hasnt  responded to those  points or sent me anything  
else to look at. 
I said I hadnt seen  evidence to show M directly lost out on income  because  of the time Mr P 
spent in the branch. Mr P has referred again  to the branch visit in May 2018 where he says 
the manager wouldnt see him. And hes now said he had a customer  waiting at his shop  
but hasnt provided  any supporting evidence of that. So I still havent seen any evidence of 
direct losses  to M. 
I do still accept that Mr Ps time spent in the branch will have had some impact on M and is 
likely to have caused some general inconvenience  and loss to the business. But for the 
reasons given above, I havent seen anything to suggest that this loss would come to more  
than the £300 TSB has already offered. So thats what  I think  TSB should pay to M as a fair 
way to put right whats gone wrong  here. 
Mr P has changed address since he first made his complaints  and hes also moved Ms 
account to another bank. So I also remind Mr P that, if he ultimately  chooses  to accept this 
final decision  on behalf of M, he should  let us know how he wants TSB to pay the £300 to M.
Ref: DRN00164085my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, as I accept that TSB did something wrong 
which it needs to put right. But I also think the offer TSB has already made is a fair way to do 
that. 
So I direct TSB Bank plc to pay M, the limited company, a total of £300.  I make no other 
order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P, on behalf  of 
M, to accept or reject my decision  before 28 February 2020.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0016408