K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a Gold Service packaged  bank  account that Lloyds  Bank PLC sold to 
Mr B in April 2004. 
background
When Mr B complained that Lloyds mis-sold him this account,  Lloyds  agreed  to uphold his 
complaint in part. 
Lloyds didn't agree that it had mis-sold  the account at the outset. But it accepted that when 
Mr Bs circumstances changed Lloyds shouldve taken action straightaway when he 
contacted the bank  about this in November 2004.  That didnt happen. So Lloyds made an 
offer to settle his complaint and paid an amount to Mr B to put him back  into the position he 
wouldve been if hed been moved to a fee free account in November 2004.
Mr B feels  that the account was mis-sold to him in April 2004. He mainly  says that he never 
had any use for the account features. 
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Bs complaint  and didnt think Lloyds had mis-sold  the account.  
Mr B disagrees and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
This was a recommended  sale. So the onus was on Lloyds to make  sure that this packaged 
bank account  was suitable for Mr B taking  into account his personal circumstances.
Mr B told us that when  he was sold this account,  he already held a fee paying account with 
another bank  that offered  him the insurance  benefits  he needed. This is borne out by the fact 
that he never made a claim on the breakdown  cover  and although he did register some  
mobile devices later on, this wasnt until May 2006   some 2 years after hed signed  up for 
the Gold Service account. 
So it seems  to me that Mr B didnt require the car breakdown cover  or mobile insurance 
features the Gold Service account offered him.
The Gold  Service account also offered Worldwide Travel  Insurance.  Mr B told us he did 
travel outside Europe for up to 3 months at a time.  But Mr B says he had existing travel 
insurance set up that provided him with cover despite his pre-existing medical  conditions.  
It appears that Mr B wasnt  able to claim successfully on the travel insurance feature of the 
Lloyds account  for medical related reasons. So I think this bears  out Mr Bs complaint that it 
probably wasnt suitable for him.
Based on all the information Ive seen, it doesnt  look to me as if Mr B had any overall 
identifiable need for the main benefits  the Gold Service  account  offered. 
Ref: DRN01597712I think if Lloyds had given  him clearer information and correctly identified  whether the 
account features  were  suitable for him, then its unlikely that Mr B wouldve agreed to pay to 
have the Gold  Service account. But as he did pay for it, hes lost out.
So I think Lloyds Bank PLC should take further  steps to put things  right for Mr B.
Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was to uphold this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Both Lloyds  and Mr B accepted my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
Having done so, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint  for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
putting things right
As it has now offered  to do, Lloyds Bank PLC should:
refund  and pay to Mr B the fees he paid for the Gold Service account;  and
pay simple  interest at 8% per year from the date Mr B paid the fee to the date of 
settlement;
Lloyds Bank PLC can deduct  the amount it has already paid to Mr B in respect  of 
this account from the amount it now owes him overall.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds Bank PLC to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds 
Bank PLC must give Mr B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0159771