K820x#14Complaint
Mr K, who has been communicating with us through  his representative, has complained to 
us about the sale of a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  that was sold to 
him by Santander UK Plc in January 2009.  
background
Mr K took out a mortgage in January 2009  and around the same  time he also took out PPI 
cover. The policy would  help to protect  Mr K were  he to lose his job. 
He says PPI was sold to him and added to his mortgage without his knowledge. 
Our adjudicator in this case told Mr K that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Because Mr K 
disagreed his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.
Having done this, I wont be upholding Mr Ks complaint.  I will explain why. 
Ive looked at the available paperwork.  I can see that Mr K received his mortgage  offer from 
Santander in November 2008.  And Ive seen from screenshot information provided by 
Santander that the PPI was quoted for and taken out in January 2009 and started in June 
2009. 
Given that I dont have details about what happened when the PPI was sold,  Ive looked at 
this complaint based on what I know  about  Santander PPI sales at this time, whilst also 
taking into account  what the parties  have said. But inevitably, in cases  like this where we 
have limited sale documents available, decisions are based on the balance of probability  i.e. 
whats more likely to have  happened.
Mr K says he didnt want the PPI and it was added to his mortgage without his knowledge. 
Ive seen that Mr K had told his broker that he didnt  want  PPI. So it looks like at some point 
he changed his mind and decided to buy the cover through  Santander.  There are a number 
of ways this sale could have happened   by way of a meeting or by phone  looks  most likely. 
but he may have been sent a form to fill out and return to Santander.  If Mr K had bought his 
PPI in one of these  ways  its likely  that the PPI wasnt  recommended  to him by Santander. In 
other words, he had to make his own mind up for himself based  on the information hed been 
given about the policy and cover. However,  given that Ive no way of knowing for sure, Ive 
looked at the sale as if it was recommended which  means  Santander also had to ensure that 
the policy was suitable for Mr Ks circumstances. From what Ive seen, I think it was. 
To take out the policy, and given  that hed decided  not go ahead with PPI at the time he 
made his mortgage  application, Mr K wouldve had to complete a PPI application form. As 
the PPI would have been paid for separately  to his mortgage, Mr K would also have had to 
authorise that monthly PPI premium payments be drawn from his bank account. 
Ref: DRN09692122Although Santander hasnt  been  able to provide me with evidence  about this, this all 
suggests that Mr K knew at the time he was taking out PPI. Also, having seen that Mr K 
continued to pay for the policy and receive  annual statements up to the time he cancelled  it 
in 2016, he would have been aware that hed bought the cover.   
A further  factor is that Mr K bought PPI cover for unemployment only rather than with 
accident and sickness cover as well. This further  suggests that Mr K gave some thought to 
the type of cover he wanted before making  the decision  to buy it. 
It follows that I think on balance theres  enough to show Mr K probably agreed to the cover  
solely for unemployment, considering it to be something that would be useful enough to have 
and to potentially  keep him from losing his home in the event that he lost his job. 
I think Mr K was eligible  for the cover and not put at a disadvantage by any of the major  
exclusions we tend to see in these policies. Mr C told us he was self-employed but from 
what I know about the policy I dont think it would have been any more  difficult  to make a 
claim. 
I also think the policy was comparable in cost to similar ones I know were  available  at the 
time and I havent seen  anything that suggests  the monthly premiums were  unaffordable for 
him. 
Taking everything into account,  its fair to say that his mortgage would have been a 
significant financial commitment and the consequences of not being able to keep up 
payments on it couldve  had serious implications. Ive seen that if Mr K had successfully 
claimed on the policy, it would have paid a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months. At a cost of 
£45.13 per month providing cover  of just over £1,000 the PPI provided cover  for a 
reasonable price  in the market place.  
Ive next looked at whether Santander  gave Mr K enough information about  the policy. 
Because it was so long ago, and as Ive explained  above, Ive no way of knowing what 
happened at the time of the sale, or whether Santander provided all the information  it should 
have. 
But in order to uphold  Mr Ks complaint Id have to think it was likely that Santander hadnt  
obtained any consent or that the information  was so poor that Mr K wasnt  given the 
information he needed in order to make  an informed decision. I simply dont have information 
or evidence  to suggest that. I think its more likely he bought the policy  because  he thought it 
would be useful to him. For these  reasons  I cant safely say the PPI was mis-sold. 
Ive looked at the detailed  comments  that Mr Ks representative has sent us in response to 
our adjudicators finding. Whilst Id like to reassure the representative that Ive given all these 
observations the fullest consideration, ultimately  they dont affect my decision. 
Ive also seen that there have been  delays in giving Mr K an answer about whether his PPI 
was mis-sold whilst we looked  into the question of whether  Santander or another  business 
had sold him the PPI. Im sorry that and also for having to give him an answer  that I know  he 
will find disappointing  after so much time. 
Ref: DRN09692123my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or direct Santander UK Plc to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0969212