K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) have declined  the
claim they made under their pet insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs T have  had pet insurance  for their dog with RSA since  3 February  2018.  In April
2018 Mrs T took the dog to the vet and while she was there mentioned  her dog groomer had
recently noticed two pea-sized lumps on the dogs left sided mammary complex. 
Mrs T decided she would have the dog spayed and the lumps could be removed at the same  
time. Before  the dog had her surgery Mrs T asked  her vets to arrange an ultrasound  of the 
dogs heart,  and other tests, to ensure it was safe for her to have a general anaesthetic.
After these tests had been  carried  out, Mrs T asked her vet for a referral to a specialist for
the dog to have her surgery.  The surgery was carried out at the specialist  vets and this
included removal of the mammary masses and the dog was spayed,  as the masses were
considered to be hormonally driven.
Mr and Mrs T submitted a claim to RSA for investigations into the dogs heart murmur, to
assess her suitability for surgery, and for the cost of the surgery  to remove her mammary
masses and her spaying.
RSA declined the claim on the basis  that both the heart murmur and the mammary lumps
were pre-existing  conditions  as they had been  noted before they took out the policy  - and
not covered by Mr and Mrs Ts policy. They complained to RSA who werent prepared to
change their decision.
Mr and Mrs T then complained to our service. Our investigator considered  the case and
agreed with RSA that the dogs heart murmur was a pre-existing condition so it wasnt
covered. She didnt  think there was clear evidence to say whether the lumps found in 2018,
were related  to a lump that had been  noted  in 2015.  And in the absence of clear evidence
that the lumps  werent related, she didnt think it was unreasonable for RSA to conclude  it
was more likely than not they were  related. So she didnt  think  it was unreasonable  for the
claim to be declined.
Mr and Mrs T have  said our investigator didnt address the claim for the cost of their dogs
spaying. They feel RSA should cover this as the decision to spay wasnt  taken by them, but
by the specialist vets,  during the dogs surgery.
Mr and Mrs T were  unhappy with our investigators opinion so the case  came to me for a
decision. 
I made  my provisional decision about the complaint on 2 May 2019. In it I said:-
The policy provides cover for vets fees. So Mr and Mrs T can claim for their vets fees,
unless RSA can show these are excluded. Mr and Mrs Ts policy  says it doesnt cover any
pre-existing conditions. Both the policy and policy schedule say RSA dont insure changes
that you or your vet notice in your pets health  or behaviour before  this policy  started, or any
illness of injury that develop from these changes.  RSA says this exclusion applies to the
claim.
Ref: DRN04176182The veterinary records show that the dogs heart murmur  was first noted on 29 March 2017.
Part of Mr and Mrs Ts claim  relates  to investigations  carried  out on their dogs  heart to
ensure she was fit for surgery.  As the heart  murmur  was identified before Mr and Mrs T took
out the policy with RSA any treatment,  or investigations, relating to the heart murmur arent
covered by the policy. Mrs T says the investigations werent required for the heart  murmur,
but simply to ensure  it was safe for the dog to have surgery. I dont agree, Mrs T may have
requested the investigations for this reason, but they were  required as the dog had been
diagnosed with a heart  murmur. So I dont think any tests, consultations, investigations or
treatment relating to the dogs heart are covered by the policy as the heart  murmur  was a
pre-existing condition.
But I think the position in relation to the mammary lumps is different. The veterinary  records
show Mr and Mrs Ts dog was noted to have  a less than peasized hard lump on R side
between 4-5 mammary complex in early  October 2015. RSA has declined to cover the cost
of surgery to remove the mammary lumps found in 2018, on the basis that these are related
to the lump found  in 2015, and so are regarded as a pre-existing condition.  Mrs T has said
the lump found  in 2015 was the result of a tick being  removed, it healed  quickly, and she had
no reason to be concerned until April 2018 when her dog groomer pointed out the two lumps
which Mrs T mentioned to her vet. Although I have noted that in October 2018 when 
Mrs T contacted RSA about  the claim she referred  to the 2015 lump as a fat cyst, which 
burst and went away of its own accord.
The veterinary records say 2 x pea sized lumps on L side mammary complex noticed by
groomer recently, rec FNA but O might  have them removed at time of spay  anyway.
Mrs Ts groomer  has said that between 2015  and 2018 she didnt notice any lumps on the
dog, until those she brought to Mrs Ts attention in April 2018. Mrs T has told us she regards
the dog as her baby  and she says had she noticed  any lumps,  or if any lumps  were brought
to her attention, she would have taken her to the vet for these to be checked out.
Mrs T clearly takes very good care of her dog and Im persuaded if she had any concerns  for
her health  she would have taken her to the vet.
Ive considered the evidence to see if theres  any clear  link between the lump noted in
October 2015 and those  found in 2018.  Mrs Ts vet has told us I did not necessarily believe
the lump discovered  in 2015 is related to the lumps recently removed. We were unable  to 
diagnose the exact nature of that lump at the time to say with certainty that the same  lump
was still present at the time of the surgery in 2018. After the initial consultation  the specialist
vet sent a letter to Mrs Ts vet which notes a small, firm mass of around  10-12mm
associated with the right fourth mammary gland. There  were  also two, slightly  smaller
masses caudal to this between glands four and five on the right side.  There  were  also similar
small nodules  palpated in the left fifth mammary gland. And after the dogs surgery  
Mrs Ts vet was advised that Three masses were located in the two caudal mammary 
glands on the right side and a single small mass (2x3mm) was seen in association  with the 
third gland  on the left side.
The histopathology report  on the samples  taken  at the time of the dogs  surgery  says the
masses taken from both the right and left mammary glands were benign tumours  and of
similar composition.
RSA have said that, as the right sided lump  was a mammary tumour and was in the same
area as the lump  noted in 2015 its related to that lump  and therefore  linked to a pre-existing
condition, and not covered by Mr and Mrs Ts policy. But there were  two and a half years
between the right sided lump being noted in October  2015  and the lumps  being noticed in
April 2018. Regardless  of what Mrs T has said the 2015 lump was, theres  no mention of the
Ref: DRN04176183lump in the dogs  records again before April 2018,  despite her being seen by the vet on a
regular basis. Mrs Ts vet has told us Whilst it is not entirely impossible that the lump  may
have been noticed in further visits, as there is no further mention of this lump being a
concern to the owner and there is nothing further  documented  in the clinical  history,  we
cannot comment further as feel this would  be purely speculation. And the vet isnt certain
the lumps are related, as the cause of the 2015 lump was never  investigated, and the
specialist vets cant help with this as they only saw the dog in 2018.
As RSA is seeking to rely on an exclusion to reject  the claim, its for RSA to show  the
exclusion applies. On the basis of the available evidence I dont think it has shown the lumps
are related.  And so it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to decline the claim for costs  relating to
this.
Mr and Mrs T also complain that RSA declined to pay the cost of their dogs spaying.  This
was carried out at the specialist vets when the dogs  mammary lumps were removed.
The policy excludes  cover  for overiohysterectomy to prevent mammary tumours.  So
spaying isnt covered by the policy and it wouldnt  be fair to ask RSA to cover  the cost of this.
But as Im not persuaded the 2015  lump was related to the mammary tumours  found in 2018
I dont think RSA have  acted fairly in declining Mr and Mrs Ts claim for the cost of their
dogs surgery to remove her mammary tumours.
So my provisional decision was that I partially  upheld Mr and Mrs Ts complaint against RSA.  
Since I made by provisional decision Mr and Mrs T has said they accept my decision  in 
respect of the treatment  for her dogs mammary tumours. But theyve asked that I reconsider 
my decision  in respect of the cost of the ultrasound scan of their dogs heart. As they say 
they were told the ultrasound scan was the only way to properly diagnose whether  the dog 
had a heart murmur.
Mr and Mrs T have  also provided details of the claim for the cost of their dogs treatment.
RSA has provided comments from its vet about the dogs condition for me to consider.  The 
vet has said that when, in 2015,  the lump  between the dogs 4-5 mammary complex was 
noted, Mr and Mrs Ts vet suggested  sampling  that lump and discussed spaying  the dog, but 
neither was done. He says vets dont  recommend  spaying for every  kind of lump,  but its 
recommended for mammary tumours as these are likely to be hormonally driven. So he says 
this implies Mr and Mrs Ts vets believed the lump was a mammary tumour.
RSAs vet also says that just because theres no reference to this lump  in the dogs records,  
until the further lumps  are identified in April 2018, it doesnt exclude its presence.  And he 
says the lumps identified  in April 2018  were in the same location  as the earlier  lump,  which  
he says was a mammary  tumour. So he says theres  no reason to believe  the earlier lump 
had disappeared, and further  mammary tumours had developed in the same  location. He 
says the risk of mammary tumours increases with every season in bitches. And as the dog 
was un-neutered in 2015, when he says she developed her first mammary tumour, her risk 
of developing  such tumours  was high, and she was still un-neutered  in 2018 when she 
developed further tumours.    
RSA have said they declined Mr and Mrs Ts claim for the removal  of the mammary tumours  
because the cause of these was hormonal. A mammary tumour  was present in 2015,  and 
the further tumours which developed in 2018  were  linked  to the first by the underlying  cause 
 hormones. So they believe the claim was correctly declined.
Ref: DRN04176184my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr and Mrs T have said their dogs  heart  murmur wasnt confirmed until she had the 
ultrasound scan prior to her surgery in 2018, its noted in her medical records  in March 2017, 
before they took out the policy with RSA. And as it was a pre-existing condition  any tests, 
consultations, investigations or treatment  relating to the dogs heart  arent covered by the 
policy.
Ive considered the points made  by RSAs vet. Hes based his comments on the assumption 
that the lump  noticed in 2015  was still present in 2018 and that it was a mammary tumour. 
He says because  Mr and Mrs Ts vet discussed  spaying in 2015  this means they believed  
the lump seen then was a mammary tumour.
But Mr and Mrs Ts vet has said this lump wasnt investigated, so they cant say what it was 
or if the same lump was still present in April 2018. And Mr and Mrs T, who had daily care of 
the dog, say the lump noticed  in 2015 disappeared and no further lumps  were noticed until 
April 2018. In this period  the dog was regularly seen by a dog groomer  and by her vet. And 
when her dog groomer pointed out the lumps to Mrs T, in April 2018,  she immediately took 
the dog to the vet. 
So Im not persuaded to change my decision based on the comments of a vet who hasnt 
seen or treated the dog, and whose opinion is based on the assumption  that the 2015 lump  
was a mammary tumour and was still present in 2018. When on the available  evidence  I 
dont think its been shown it was, or that the lumps are related.
Mr and Mrs T have  provided copies of their claim for the costs of and related to their dogs 
surgery to remove her mammary  tumours.  Its not my role to assess  Mr and Mrs Ts claim. I 
understand theyve  sent details of their claim to RSA, but if they havent  they should  submit 
their claim and supporting  evidence  to RSA.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint against  Royal  and Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc and I require them to pay the cost of Mr and Mrs Ts dogs surgery to 
remove her mammary  tumours, excluding the cost of the heart investigations and tests and 
the cost of her spaying, subject to the policy limit, policy excess  and any contribution  
Mr and Mrs T are required to pay as a result of the dogs age.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0417618