K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold  her a regular payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy to cover  her credit card repayments.
background
Mrs A applied for a credit card by post in 1994. At the same time she took out a PPI policy to 
cover her credit card repayments. The policy cost £0.69 per £100 of the balance on Mrs As 
credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding  balance 
for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs A was unable to work  due to accident or sickness  or lost 
her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs As complaint should be upheld because  she thought Mrs A 
wouldve understood she had a choice  in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mrs A disagrees. She says it wasnt made  clear  the PPI was optional  and she didnt need 
the policy.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs As complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs As complaint.
The PPI was applied  for by post when Mrs A completed a postal application for a credit card.  
HSBC have given  us a copy of the application  form Mrs A completed. 
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI. It gives 
the option to select PPI with a tick next to the words  If you require cover  please tick here  or 
declining cover by ticking next to the words If you do not require cover  please tick here. I 
can see on Mrs As application form a tick has been  placed in the box to take PPI. If Mrs A 
didnt want PPI she could  have ticked to decline cover instead.  
So I think because Mrs A selected to take PPI with a tick she understood she had a choice in 
taking the policy and wanted  the cover. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think HSBC advised 
Mrs A to take PPI. What this means  is that HSBC didnt recommend PPI to Mrs A, it just 
gave her information about PPI. This information  needed to be given in a way that was clear,  
fair and not misleading so she could make  an informed  choice  about  buying PPI.
I dont know if HSBC  did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if HSBC  
did give all the information Mrs A needed to make an informed choice on taking out the 
policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what  we 
know about HSBC  policies:
Ref: DRN05450612She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs A says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay but had 
no other  means of making her repayments if she couldnt  work  due to accident or 
sickness or if she lost her job. The policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and 
helped her in these situations, so I cant see how knowing this information wouldve put 
her off buying  it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs A and she could cancel 
the policy  if she no longer wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs A on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to her.
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Mrs As complaint  against HSBC UK Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0545061