K820x#14complaint
Mr E says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading at the time as Egg) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Es credit  card account when he applied for the card over the internet.
The PPI cost 59p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. If Mr E had made  a 
successful claim, it would have paid 10% of his outstanding credit  card balance for up to 
12 months if he was off sick, or if he lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Es case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why.
 Ive seen a screenshot of the part of the online credit card application  process in which 
PPI would  have been offered to Mr E. It includes equally prominent options to take or 
decline PPI. Egg says Mr E wouldnt have  been able to go ahead  with his application 
unless he chose one of these options. 
 Im satisfied,  on balance, that the PPI would only have been added to Mr Es account if 
hed selected the option  to take it. And I think that the way that the PPI was presented 
during the application process made it clear that the PPI was optional. So taking  
everything into account,  I think Mr E chose  to take the PPI, realising that he didnt have 
to - though I can understand  why he may no longer  remember  this, so many  years 
later.
 Im satisfied  that Mr E applied for the credit card online. I think  its unlikely that he had 
any direct contact with Eggs  staff during the application process.  So I dont think Egg 
recommended the PPI to Mr E. This means it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
him. It was for Mr E to decide  whether to take the PPI, knowing what other means  he 
had of making his credit card repayments if he was off sick or unable to work.  But Egg 
did have a responsibility  to give Mr E enough clear information about the PPI to enable 
him to decide whether  he wanted it.
Ref: DRN04402692 I acknowledge that Mr Es told us hed have been entitled  to six months full pay, 
followed by six months  half pay from his employer at the time if hed been off sick. But 
if hed made a successful  claim  on the policy, it would  have paid 10% of his credit card 
balance each month  for up to 12 months. So it would potentially have carried on paying 
out for longer than Mr E would have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats  more, it 
would have paid out in addition to any payments  Mr E received from his employer. So 
Mr E could have used those to meet  other expenses. Taking  everything  into account, 
I think the protection the policy offered could have been useful to Mr E, especially as 
hes told us that aside from his employee benefits, he didnt have any other  means he 
could have used to make  his credit card repayments if hed been unable to work.
 Its possible the information Egg gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  
have been. But I think Mr E chose to take out the policy  - so it looks as if he wanted 
this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten  that now.  Based on what  Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt  look as if hed have been affected by 
any of the exclusions or limitations.
 The policy was competitively priced.  And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that Mr E 
couldnt afford  it. Taking everything  into account, Im not convinced  that better 
information about  it would have put him off taking it out. So I dont think the policy  was 
mis-sold.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because:  
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mr E about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr E, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr E any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand its already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0440269