K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out with a loan in 1998. Mr M 
applied for the PPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint because on balance I dont think  he was eligible for 
the PPI. The policys eligibility terms say that to get cover, amongst other  things the 
customer must:
e. be working at Your employment  of at least 16 hours per week and have  been  
continuously employed for six months immediately before the Start Date. (If You are 
on holiday from Your Employment, You will still meet  this condition.). 
Mr M had been in his job for one month when he bought the policy. It seems there was a gap 
in his employment between his previous job and the job he was doing  when the PPI was 
sold. From  what  Ive seen, I dont think Mr M was on holiday during the gap between his two 
jobs. That means he didnt meet the policys eligibility criteria.
Nationwide queried  the gap between  Mr Ms two jobs, and provided a copy  of its records  
which suggest he was continuously employed  between 1996 and 2000.  Nationwide is 
seeking proof of when  Mr M finished employment before the job he was doing  when he 
bought the policy. But given the amount of time thats passed  since the policy  was sold,  I 
dont think it would be reasonable to expect Mr M to provide that specific  information. 
But we have  asked  Mr M for his recollections of what he was doing between 1996  and 2000.
Hes told us he was studying for a four year degree between 1994  and 1998.  He completed 
a placement during that time, between 1996  and August 1997. The placement employer hes 
referred to is the same  as the employer quoted  on his loan application  form - where he said 
hed worked for one year and one month.
On balance, I think Mr M finished his placement  in August 1997 and completed his degree in 
1998. So I think its likely there was a break in his employment (which wasnt a holiday) 
Ref: DRN02634902before he got the job he was doing  when he bought  the PPI. That means Mr M wasnt 
eligible for the PPI policy.
I dont think Mr M would have bought the policy if he had realised he wasnt  eligible. So, I 
think Mr M has lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
what Nationwide should  do to put things right
Mr M borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve  been. He 
paid more than he shouldve each month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it 
wouldve. So Mr M needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, Nationwide should:
-Work  out and pay Mr M the difference between what  he paid each month  on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid without PPI.  
-Work  out and pay Mr M the difference between what  it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have  cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
-Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr M paid from when he paid it until he gets 
it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
-If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what  
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
compensation to Mr M in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0263490