K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with what  Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) did after he made a claim on 
his home  contents  insurance policy. 
background
In November 2017 Mr C got in touch  with Tesco to make a claim for damage  to a sofa and 
carpets as a result of a water leak in his rented property. Tescos notes say it advised him of 
what else hed need to provide in order to progress the claim. 
Mr C says he got in touch with Tesco again  in January 2018 about  this. Tesco doesnt have 
a record of further contact  from him until July that year. It then arranged for reports  to assess  
the damage to Mr Cs property. The report on the carpet didnt find evidence  of water 
marking in the lounge where the leak had occurred. It did say the carpet was old and had 
suffered from wear and tear. The report on the furniture didnt identify water damage to a two 
seater sofa and foot stool. It did find that a three seater sofa and armchair had heavy 
staining but noted Mr C had stored those items in a garage after the incident occurred. The 
report said it was very difficult to assess what damage related to the claim and what had 
been caused by being stored in the garage for a long period of time. 
Tesco said as a result  of the delay in the claim being  progressed  it wasnt now able to 
establish to what  extent any damage to the carpet and sofa had been caused  by the escape 
of water.  So it turned down Mr Cs claim.  
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Tesco to say it wasnt now possible to 
establish what damage had been caused  by the escape of water. And while she accepted 
Mr C had some difficult personal issues to deal with in this period  she didnt think that would 
have reasonably prevented him from pursuing  the claim. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said hed provided  photographic evidence of what happened when he 
got in touch with Tesco  in November 2017.  And hed then contacted it in January when it 
asked him to get a quotation  for repairs to the sofa and carpet  replacement.  As his daughter 
had been very unwell he hadnt then been able to pursue the claim but Tesco already  had 
evidence of the damage to his property. He said it should  be able to assess  the claim on that 
basis. So I need to reach a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought first about whether there  was any delay by Tesco in progressing the claim Mr C 
made. Ive seen an email  he sent Tesco in November 2017 which appears to have had 
photographs attached. But that doesnt  appear  to have been received by Tesco. It looks  like 
thats because  part of the email address was missing from the email Mr C sent.  So Tesco  
didnt have the information it needed  to progress the claim at that time. 
Ref: DRN04878812Mr C says he contacted  Tesco  in January 2018  and was told to get a quotation  for the 
repairs to the damage. However, theres  no reference in the case  notes Tesco  has provided 
to any contact at that point. And Mr C hasnt been able to provide  any further evidence to 
support that he had contact with Tesco at that time.  I also note the notes of his subsequent 
contact with Tesco dont  make any reference to him getting in touch in January. So Im 
satisfied that following  his initial contact with Tesco Mr C didnt get back in touch  until the 
following July. 
Ive gone on to think about  whether Tesco did anything wrong in turning down the claim at 
that point. The relevant  rules say an insurer should  handle claims promptly  and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.  And in this case  Mr C has argued it should have been 
able to consider  his claim based on the photographs he initially  provided. However, for the 
reasons Ive explained Tesco didnt  receive  that information. And while Ive seen copies of 
photographs Mr C subsequently provided  in support  of his claim I dont think these do make  
clear what  the extent of damage to the furniture and carpet was following the leak and 
whether it would have  been possible to repair (rather than replace) the damaged items. 
In particular it doesnt seem to be in dispute  that there is now extensive  damage to the items 
that have been stored  in the garage. But the inspection report says it isnt now possible to 
say whether thats a result  of the original incident or has come about because  of whats 
happened to furniture (and the way it was stored)  since then. I think the extended time 
period between the escape of water  taking place and Tesco  having  an opportunity to inspect 
the damage has prejudiced its ability to determine its liability  for this and for the other 
damaged items.
Ive also taken into account Mr Cs reasons  for not getting back in touch with Tesco  at an 
earlier date. I appreciate his daughter has faced some significant health problems in this 
period. But I note these were diagnosed  prior to him getting in touch to report the claim. And 
it appears his daughter  was well enough  to travel  for an extended period with Mr C in early 
2018. So I dont  think these issues would have prevented Mr C from getting in touch with 
Tesco at an earlier date.  And as I think the delay in him doing so prejudiced its position I 
dont think it acted unfairly in turning down the claim he made.  
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0487881