K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limiteds  stance about  charging 
him for damages to its car. In particular, he suggests, it has not given enough thought to his 
goodwill gesture.
background
In September  2015 Mr S acquired a used car under a hire purchase  agreement with VWFS. 
At the time the car had around 21,000  miles  on the clock. The car was first registered  in 
2012.
When Mr S decided  to end the agreement he returned the car with around forty pounds 
worth of fuel in it, this was a goodwill gesture  on his part. At first, it appeared he didnt agree 
VWFS was entitled to charge him for the damage at all. Later, he clarified his position.  He 
objects to the amount that VWFS  wants to charge him for the repairs  to the car. This is 
because he thinks that the value of the fuel in the car ought fairly to be taken off any amount 
VWFS says he owes.
VWFSs position is that it does not need  to subtract  the cost of the fuel from the bill. Further,  
it is entitled to charge  Mr S for anything that goes  beyond wear and tear. It thinks it is 
reasonable to charge him for the damage given  its extent.  It has already reduced the bill 
once and it isnt minded  to do this again.
Our investigator looked into this complaint for Mr S. He didnt recommend upholding it. He 
could see the agreement allows VWFS to charge  for damage  that goes beyond  wear and 
tear. He agreed  the damage had gone  over that threshold. He saw no proper basis to ask 
VWFS to take the cost of the fuel off the total owed.
VWFS accepted this recommendation, Mr S did not. In summary, he responded to say our 
understanding of his complaint was inaccurate. He was prepared to pay something towards 
the repairs. Rather his position is the fair thing to do is take the cost of the fuel off the cost of 
the repairs.
We could go no further with this complaint at this stage. I was asked to take a fresh  look at it 
and to come  to a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  we have come  to a point where Mr Ss stance about the repairs  has changed. 
When he initially complained he indicated that he denied any responsibility  for the damage.  
He maintained that he had to maintain the car in a reasonable condition throughout the 
period of the agreement and therefore  such  damage  charges  [VWFS is] claiming  would 
amount to fair wear and tear. The vehicle does  not need to be returned to you in any better  
condition than a reasonable  one. And it seemed as far as Mr S was concerned that is what 
he had done.
But as I mention above, in response to our investigators recommendation, Mr S suggested  
we had misunderstood his complaint. He said I have never stated that I would not be willing  
Ref: DRN08785292to pay something to these  costs.  Rather a fair result would be for me to pay, as I have 
already offered the repair fee minus the cost of the fuel. 
I take it from this that Mr S no longer rejects VWFSs  entitlement  to charge him something  
for the repairs. What  he objects to is the amount he is being charged. That being the case, 
this is where I have focused my attention. 
I see where Mr S is coming  from. He left fuel in the car that was worth  quite a bit of money  in 
the circumstances. He did not need  to do this. He made a choice to do it. The difficulty  is 
this. Mr S and VWFS both signed up to the agreement. That agreement says nothing about 
having to take any fuel left in the car off any outstanding bill like this. I think it is reasonable 
to assume that when  the parties signed  the agreement  they meant to be bound by its terms. 
Ive no proper basis now to say VWFS has to move away from those terms and accept a 
unilateral amendment  to them, without its consent.  That is what Mr S is inviting  me to do 
here I think.  I dont  agree  that in the individual circumstances  of this complaint, it is fair and 
reasonable to do this. I can imagine Mr S would object, and with good  cause I think,  if VWFS 
asked me enforce a condition on him that he never agreed too and had no idea might be 
coming.
It seems  that Mr S believes that VWFS will benefit  from the amount of fuel he left in the tank 
when he returned  the car. But Im not persuaded this is actually the case.  Its very likely that 
the car will now be sold at auction. And I think its unlikely that the amount  of fuel in the tank 
will actually impact the value of the car achieved at auction. It is the overall  condition  of the 
car, its mileage and specification, amongst other things that will determine the value  of the 
car and I dont believe the value will be increased by the car having  more fuel in it. 
If I am mistaken,  and Mr S does still reject VWFSs  entitlement to charge him, then I would 
still not uphold  this complaint. The agreement says you will be responsible  for any damage 
to or deterioration of the Vehicle which is in excess of fair wear  and tear commensurate with 
the age and mileage of the Vehicle.
Ive looked at the damage and Ive thought  about the age and mileage  of the vehicle  and 
taking all of this into account, I think the charges are fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances. 
I dont rely on the BVRLA guidance here. My understanding is that guidance  is intended to 
be used for new cars and the car here was a used car though  not a particularly old one with 
fairly low mileage.
For all these reasons I dont think it is fair and reasonable  to ask VWFS to do anything more  
here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0878529