K820x#14Complaint
Mr D complains information given  to him by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited, about his new 
private medical insurance policy, was misleading and disguised a significant  increase in his 
premiums.
Background
Mr D had held a private medical insurance  policy with AXA PPP for several  years. The policy 
had been arranged through his broker. 
In late 2017, Mr D says he was encouraged by his broker to become a direct  customer of 
AXA PPP and this arrangement was confirmed  in early 2018. At that time his existing policy, 
the THIG Flexicare plan, included a no claims discount (NCD) of 40%. At renewal Mr Ds 
NCD would  have fallen  to 20% due to a recent claim.
 
But about a month later,  Mr D was contacted by AXA PPP again  and told that his Flexicare 
policy was being  withdrawn and Mr D would be moved onto a new policy, the Personal 
Health plan, when  his policy renewed in April 2018.  
AXA PPP sent Mr D information  about the new policy and confirmed his new premium  and 
NCD rate. On the new policy  Mr Ds NCD rate, at renewal,  was set at 63.5%.
Despite his NCD percentage  being  higher than previously, Mr D is unhappy that his annual  
premium had increased. He thinks the information  sent to him by AXA PPP was misleading  
and that the higher NCD rate was applied to disguise a significant increase in his annual 
premiums. He was worried hed face a further  significant increase in his premiums  if he 
needed to make a claim in the future, but not claiming wouldnt afford him the same 
percentage increase in his NCD as offered  under his Flexicare  policy.  Mr D also thinks  the 
representation of the NCD levels in the policy information is misleading.
After complaining to AXA PPP, Mr D became aware the broker hed use to incept his original 
policy was a member of the AXA group  of companies. And not long after moving to AXA 
PPP as a direct customer, AXA group announced  it was in the process  of selling the broker  
business. Mr D is concerned AXA groups decision to sell the broker  business was taken  as 
an opportunity to withdraw the Flexicare policy and increase his premiums.
Mr D says he wanted AXA PPP to provide  him with a new policy  on similar terms and at a 
similar cost to his Flexicare policy. And thats  something AXA PPP said it cant do. 
Ultimately, Mr D decided to transfer  his cover  to an alternative insurer.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Ds concerns  but didnt think AXA PPP had done  anything 
wrong. He was satisfied  AXA PPP were entitled to withdraw Mr Ds original policy  and he 
explained that this service  couldnt  tell AXA PPP how much  it could charge. He went  on to 
say he thought the new NCD structure  didnt disadvantage Mr D as he could make more  
claims under the new policy before dropping to the 20% level.
Mr D disagreed with our adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
Ref: DRN08833922my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But having  considered  everything Mr D 
and AXA PPP have  said,  and taken  account  of industry  rules  and regulations,  I agree with 
our adjudicator and for largely  the same reasons. 
Ill focus my determination on the crux of Mr Ds complaint rather  than comment  on 
everything hes said.
withdrawal of the Flexicare policy
Mr D is unhappy AXA PPP withdrew his Flexicare policy  at around  the same  time as the 
AXA group announced it was selling  the broker company hed previously used.
I can understand why that situation caused Mr D concern but its important  to say the sale of 
the broker business isnt something for this service to consider; we are not the regulator and 
we cannot comment  on AXA groups  decision to sell one of the companies within its 
portfolio.
Its also important to say that AXA PPP is entitled to withdraw policies from sale;  thats  a 
commercial decision for the insurer. But when withdrawing a policy, wed look to see what  
steps AXA PPP had taken and what information  had been given to customers about 
alternative cover.
In those circumstances, a key consideration is the Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS). 
ICOBS 6.1.5 places  an obligation on insurers to provide customers  with appropriate 
information about a policy so the customer can make an informed decision about  whether to 
proceed. In order to reach a finding that Mr D had been misled, Id need  to be satisfied AXA 
PPP hadnt  fulfilled  its obligations in this regard.
But based  on the information  provided  by both parties, Im satisfied the information Mr D 
received about  the new policy was sufficiently clear  for him to make  an informed choice.  
Mr D was given updated policy  and membership information which included details of his 
premium and his NCD, and a key differences  document so he could compare his previous 
policy with the new policy being offered to him.
When Mr D complained to AXA PPP, it explained the Personal Health policy  was the nearest 
equivalent policy available to the level of cover Mr D had under his Flexicare policy.  But it 
accepted it could have offered Mr D an alternative, cheaper policy and it subsequently 
provided a written quote for both policies. 
Having listened  to numerous calls between Mr D and AXA PPP, its clear Mr D was not 
satisfied with either of the options  suggested by AXA PPP. He wanted AXA PPP to offer him 
a new policy  with equivalent benefits and most  importantly, at an equivalent  cost to his 
previous policy. AXA PPP told him that wasnt something it could do.
Ref: DRN08833923NCD and premiums
I understand why Mr D was unhappy his premiums increased and would continue to do so if 
he made a claim, but as explained  by our adjudicator, its not the role of this service to 
decide what premiums  an insurance company can charge, provided those premiums are 
fairly applied  to customers with similar  circumstances. Its for the insurer  to decide  the risk 
its prepared to take and the premiums it sets to manage that risk. 
But Mr D was particularly unhappy with the new NCD rates  applicable to his new policy. He 
thought they were designed to disguise the increase in his premiums   and the visual  
representation in his policy booklet  wasnt accurate.
The policy terms show the NCD levels in a bar chart format,  with bars showing the 
increasing levels along with the percentage discount  that applies to each  year where  no 
claims are made. Whist this chart may not be exactly accurate  for example,  the 50% bar 
isnt exactly twice the length  of the 25% bar  which was one of Mr Ds concerns, Im not 
satisfied this was designed to mislead.  I think this is a visual  representation of the NCD 
levels and the associated text clarifies the percentage and number of years that apply. Im 
satisfied the policy and membership guides explained the NCD arrangements in a way that 
is sufficiently clear.
That said,  I appreciate  why the new NCD rate offered no comfort  to Mr D when faced with a 
premium increase; the NCD rate is relative  to the overall cost of the policy. But as Ive 
explained its for AXA PPP to set the terms of the policies  it decides to offer and as the 
Flexicare policy was being  withdrawn,  the NCD levels in the new policy  were  the terms 
available to Mr D if he chose to renew.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and wont  be asking AXA PPP 
Healthcare Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020
Sian Brightey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0883392