K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (trading as More 
Th>n) has declined their claim  under  their home  contents insurance policy, following a 
burglary to their home.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a home contents insurance policy with More Th>n in 2003 and they 
have renewed  their policy annually ever since. 
In 2018 Mr and Mrs H suffered a burglary at their home.  The patio doors were forced and the 
house was broken into whilst they were away on holiday. Cash,  jewellery and other personal 
possessions were stolen,  with a total value of about  £6,300.
When they discovered the break-in Mr and Mrs H contacted More Th>n to register  a claim 
under their home contents policy. During  the claims process Mrs H was asked a series  of 
standard questions  to confirm that the claim was valid and that insurance cover was in place 
under their policy. 
Mrs H was asked to confirm if the burglar alarm was on at the time the burglary occurred. 
She said that there was no alarm fitted  at their property. The More Th>n representative  told 
her that it was a requirement under their insurance  policy to have  an intruder alarm fitted and 
for it to be set whenever the house  was empty. 
More Th>n  declined Mr and Mrs Hs claim on the basis  that they hadnt complied with one of 
the endorsements which applied to their policy. More Th>n pointed out that the requirement  
for an alarm was made clear in the schedule which Mr and Mrs H had been  sent when their 
policy had renewed  in 2017.  And More Th>n told us that the endorsement had been in place 
since February 2004 and had applied  to their policy schedule every  year since that date.  
Mr and Mrs H said theyd never  been  made aware of the requirement for them to have an 
alarm installed. They complained to More Th>n and said that they believed their claim 
should be settled.  More Th>n responded by saying that the endorsement on the policy was 
clear in the schedule.  More Th>n  added that as policyholders it was Mr and Mrs Hs 
responsibility to review the insurance documents and to make sure the policy was 
appropriate.
Our investigator felt that More Th>n should meet the claim. She acknowledged that the 
policy schedule included an endorsement  which required an alarm to be fitted  however she 
felt that More Th>n had failed to show that it had taken sufficient steps to bring this 
significant requirement under Mr and Mrs Hs policy  to their attention.
Mr and Mrs H agreed  with our investigators  view.  However More  Th>n  disagreed. It 
reiterated that it had made it clear on pages  six and seven of Mr and Mrs Hs policy  schedule  
that an alarm needed to be fitted. And More Th>n added that details of the special terms 
were signposted  on the first page.
Because the parties dont  agree this matter has been referred to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN04976022my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
Ill explain  why.
The issue  I have to decide upon here is whether its fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
outlined for More Th>n to decline Mr and Mrs Hs claim because  they didnt comply  with a 
policy endorsement  namely, that for their claim to be met, they were  required to have a 
working intruder alarm installed at their home.
Mr and Mrs H say they werent aware  that this endorsement had been  added to their policy  
in 2004. They dont dispute  that the endorsement  is within their schedule   but they say it 
was never  properly brought to their attention.
Ive examined the schedule  document  and I note that the endorsement is at the bottom of 
page six of an eight page document.  In my opinion the endorsement is not prominent on the 
page  and neither is it prominent within the document.  
I agree  that the two sections I have  referred  to within  the schedule act as a valid and useful 
reminder to any policyholder who has already  been  properly  informed  of the requirement  for 
an alarm  to be fitted. But I dont  believe that, by themselves, these sections are sufficiently 
prominent or explicit to draw a policyholders  attention to such  a significant requirement 
under the policy.
This leads  me to the question  of whether Mr and Mrs H were  properly informed  when the 
endorsement which required  an alarm to be fitted  was added to their policy.  I see that this 
endorsement took effect from 01 February  2004,  which is around two months after they first 
took out their More  Th>n  home insurance policy. So they wouldnt have been advised of the 
change when taking  out the policy  as it was introduced part way through  the year. And 
there is no evidence  to suggest they had an alarm when they took out their policy  in 2003. I 
consider that this was a significant change to the terms  and conditions within their policy   
and one which effectively  invalidated the policy  they had bought only a few months  earlier.  
So I believe  it would be only reasonable that the change should  have been highlighted 
prominently to them at the time. I dont think that the wording provided on the schedule  at 
annual renewal is in itself sufficient.
Mr and Mrs H say that they were never informed by More Th>n  that they were required to 
have an alarm fitted under the terms of their policy. And More Th>n hasnt provided any 
evidence which shows that it at any stage specifically brought this requirement to Mr and 
Mrs Hs attention. From the information More Th>n have provided it appears the expectation 
was that Mr and Mrs H would find this out for themselves, by searching  through the detailed 
information written in small print within the schedule document. I dont feel that More Th>ns 
argument seems reasonable.
Mr and Mrs H have renewed  their More Th>n home  contents policy  annually  for 14 years  
running  and every year their schedule has apparently contained the same endorsement 
requiring that an intruder  alarm be installed. At no time during this period  did they have an 
alarm fitted. It seems  unlikely to me that Mr and Mrs H would have knowingly renewed  their 
policy and paid their premiums each year over such a long period if they had realised it was 
effectively invalid. It seems more probable they were  unaware of the requirement  and so 
Ref: DRN04976023renewed each  year in the belief that they were properly insured. So I think  the fact that they 
have renewed  their policy annually tends to support what theyve said  which is that the 
endorsement was never  properly  brought  to their attention.   
So to conclude  I dont believe its fair and reasonable for More Th>n to rely only on the 
information contained within the renewal  documents. And Im not persuaded that More Th>n 
took reasonable steps to tell Mr and Mrs H that they needed to have a working intruder 
alarm fitted for a theft claim to be met under the terms of the policy.
I therefore agree with our investigators  view that More  Th>n  should meet Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim, subject to the remaining  terms and conditions of their policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to settle Mr and Mrs Hs claim subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. In addition I require Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to pay 8% simple interest on the cash settlement from the date of loss to the 
date it makes the payment.
lf Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs H, it should  tell them 
how much  its taken  off. It should  also give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing this if they ask 
for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2019.
Jon Speed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0497602