K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Liberty  Insurance dac (Liberty) declined a claim under  his home 
contents insurance policy, and that its loss adjuster was intimidating  and caused distress.
Mr M is represented  in this complaint by his wife, but to keep things simple my decision will 
refer mainly to Mr M.
background
Mr M had a home contents  insurance policy with Liberty.  The policy terms and conditions  
say If any claim  made is in any respect fraudulent, or if any fraudulent means or device is 
used by you or anyone  acting  on your behalf  to obtain payment under this policy,  then all 
benefit under this policy will be forfeit and we will: not pay the claim;  not pay any other claim 
which has or will be made under  this policy; cancel cover without any return  premiums;  be 
entitled to recover  the amount of any claim already paid during the current  period of 
insurance; inform the police. 
In January 2019 Mr Ms home was burgled  and he reported this to the police  the next day. Mr M 
also submitted a claim on his contents insurance  policy, as he said four phones and jewellery 
had been stolen in the burglary. In his claim, Mr M provided details of the telephone numbers 
belonging to the subscriber identity modules (SIM cards) in each of the stolen phones.
Liberty appointed  a loss adjuster to assess the claim.  They took a statement from Mr Ms 
wife, Mrs M, about the circumstances  of the burglary. Mrs M said that prior to the burglary, 
the phones were left on a table and the jewellery was kept in a locked kitchen cupboard.  
The loss adjuster noticed that after the burglary,  Mrs M had called it from mobile phone  
number ending 833  this number belonged to one of the phones  Mr M said had been 
stolen. When asked  about that, Mrs M said shed made a mistake  and that it was actually a 
number ending 655 that had been stolen. She said 833 belonged to her husband and that 
shed been using it since the burglary.
As part of their investigation the loss adjuster called 655, and Mr M and his wife responded. 
When the loss adjuster  asked about this, Mrs M said shed bought a replacement SIM card 
for 655 and was using  it in an old handset.  In the same conversation, Mr M went  on to say 
hed bought a second SIM for 655 some time before  the burglary  but that it had been in one 
of the stolen phones, and that Mrs M was currently using the first 655 SIM in an old handset. 
Mrs M then explained Mr M had two SIMs for the number  ending 655 because of his work.
The loss adjusters enquiries  suggested it wasnt possible to have two SIMs using the same 
number at the same time. So they visited Mr and Mrs M to discuss  this. Mr and Mrs M said 
again that Mr M had two SIMs  for the number ending 655 and that it was the second 655 
SIM that had been in the stolen phone. Mr M explained that after hed bought the second  
655 SIM, hed just put it into the handset and started  using it. And that prior to the burglary 
theyd put the first 655 SIM in a drawer along  with an old handset. 
The loss adjuster asked more questions  about this and whether the kitchen cupboard had 
been repaired, but it appears Mr and Mrs M didnt want to comment  further  except to say 
things had happened the way they described and that they hadnt added any extra  items to 
Mr Ms claim. They asked the loss adjuster  to leave.
Ref: DRN00977932In April 2019 Mr Ms policy expired.  At around the same time, Mr M complained to Liberty 
that its loss adjuster had been  intimidating  and caused distress,  for example  by asking 
whether a burglary  had taken place. In its final response, Liberty said its loss adjuster had 
been fair and respectful but that it was sorry if Mr and Mrs M felt intimidated. It said that it 
needed to investigate claims before making  a settlement, and in this case  there were things 
that needed to be looked into further. So it couldnt  progress  the claim until the loss adjuster 
had completed their investigations.
The loss adjuster consulted two independent  experts who both confirmed  it wasnt  possible 
to have two SIMs using the same number at the same time. In response  to this, Mrs M said 
that wasnt what theyd  said and that their daughter had swapped the 655 SIM prior to the 
burglary. Liberty was concerned by the inconsistencies in Mr and Mrs Ms version of events. 
So in May 2019 it declined  the claim under the fraud condition of the policy. 
Mr M thought this was unfair and that Liberty just didnt want  to pay his claim, so he asked 
our service  to investigate.  He explained that before the burglary, his daughter  had removed 
the SIM card from one of the phones that would later be stolen and left it in a drawer  for a 
week or so before Mr M then put it into a different handset. Mr M says he realised then that 
the SIM was one theyd reported stolen but he didnt  think  to tell Liberty as he was still 
shocked and confused  from the burglary. 
After looking into things,  our investigator  said there were inconsistencies in Mr Ms version  of 
events and that while Liberty  had tried to resolve these with Mr M, Mr M hadnt provided  any 
further comment or evidence. So our investigator didnt think  Liberty had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by declining Mr Ms claim under the fraud condition of his policy.
Mr M disagreed. He said he didnt know his daughter had taken the SIM out of the phone  
before it was stolen  and thats why he didnt  tell Liberty they still had the SIM card. He said 
theyd not given clear  answers to the loss adjuster because  they suffer from depression  and 
that it was an honest mistake.
Because Mr M disagreed, his complaint has been  passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
declined claim
When a policyholder makes a claim under  their home insurance,  its the policyholders 
responsibility to show  the loss being  claimed for was most likely caused by an insured event. 
In Mr Ms claim, he said the phones  and jewellery had been stolen in a burglary.
The shock  and distress  caused by a burglary  can mean consumers might  only fully realise  
afterwards whats happened  and whats been  lost. But I dont think this explains the 
inconsistencies regarding  number the ending 655. Mr M told Liberty that it was 655 that had 
been stolen, and not 833 as theyd first thought.  Mr M said they were still using 655 because  
his work  meant theyd  had two SIMs for that number. Two independent experts have 
confirmed its not possible to have two active SIMs for the same mobile telephone number at 
the same  time, and that there is a security process to go through  before a new SIM can 
replace a stolen  SIM. So Im satisfied there  were  significant inconsistencies with Mr Ms claim.
Ref: DRN00977933Im satisfied Liberty tried to resolve these  inconsistencies. I say that because Liberty gave 
Mr and Mrs M the opportunity to explain them in a home visit and telephone calls. Libertys 
records show it ultimately wasnt  able to resolve the inconsistencies with Mr M to its satisfaction. 
Taking everything into account,  particularly the inconsistencies in the chain of events  leading  
to the loss, I dont  think it was unreasonable for Liberty to decline the claim. And given that 
two independent experts suggest its not possible  for the matter of the two SIMs to have 
happened the way Mr M and his wife described,  I dont  think  it was unreasonable  for Liberty 
to decline the claim  under  the fraud condition of the policy. 
conduct of loss adjuster
Mr M says the loss adjuster was intimidating  and caused distress. As an example, he says 
the loss adjuster asked whether a burglary had in fact happened.
Its normal practice for an insurer to assess a claim before paying a settlement, and they 
sometimes appoint loss adjusters as part of that. Loss adjusters therefore necessarily ask 
questions to ascertain  the circumstances and extent  of the loss. I think the questions the loss 
adjuster asked Mr M were  reasonable given the inconsistencies it was investigating.  Ive not 
seen evidence to suggest that the loss adjuster was rude or unprofessional, or intimidated  
Mr and Mrs M in the way suggested. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0097793