K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complains  that Usay Business Limited mis-sold her private medical insurance policy  
which led to the decline of her daughters claim under the policy.
background
In 2017 Mrs L took out a private health  policy for herself, her husband and her daughter 
through Usay.  The policy  insurer is a different business to Usay.  Mrs L understood shed 
taken out the policy  on a moratorium  basis switched  on the same terms as the moratorium  
policy they had taken out through Usay, with a different  insurer, in 2016.
Mrs L says in 2018 her daughter had problems  with her nasal septum and she claimed for a 
referral for a consultants review of the problem. The insurer declined the claim. It thought 
that in answer  to the questions Mrs L was asked by Usay when applying  for its policy  she 
should have said her daughter had a medical  assessment for the problem  already  planned.  
If the insurer had known about  the assessment it would have excluded any claims for 
Mrs Ls daughters lump on her nasal  bridge  and deviated nasal septum, and related 
conditions.
The insurer  added the exclusion  to apply retrospectively from the start of the policy. The 
insurer initially said Mrs L hadnt taken  out a moratorium policy with it although it later 
accepted she had and it had wrongly  set up the policy.  The insurer  would still have added 
the exclusion from the start with the moratorium policy.
Mrs L complained to us. She said:
her daughter had seen a consultant in 2015  when she was 14 years old for her nasal 
septum. Shed been told her daughter didnt need treatment, even if symptoms  
worsened nothing  would be done  until she was much older and her daughter might 
benefit from a further assessment when she was 16 years  old. Her daughter  hadnt  
needed an assessment until spring  2018 when she developed problems 
in 2016 she told Usay about  her daughters medical condition and on that basis it 
advised a moratorium  policy  and a switch on the same basis to another insurer  in 
2017
she answered all questions Usay  asked honestly and carefully,  including  a specific  
question on the application for the 2017  policy about  whether  any treatment was 
planned or expected. She thought most people wouldnt understand a medical review 
to be expected or planned treatment. She said shed taken reasonable care with her 
answer so under  the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA) the insurer should  accept the claim and also remove the exclusion or 
alternatively Usay had mis-sold her the policy
in 2016 Usay told her that under the terms of the moratorium  policy if (her daughter) 
goes two years free of treatment, medication  and advice her daughters  nasal 
condition could  be covered. She said in 2017 when  she switched the policy  she 
confirmed there  was no change and no treatment planned for her daughters nasal 
problem. She wants compensation from Usay.
Two of our investigators considered the complaint against Usay. Ultimately  they thought 
Usay hadnt done anything wrong. Mrs L should  have told it her daughter had a planned 
assessment but Usay  wasnt  told and it gave advice on that basis.
Ref: DRN02948052Mrs L disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans  decision. She said no one had explained to 
her the policy  definition of treatment and using the usual meaning of treatment none was 
planned or expected at the time of taking out the policies  in 2016 or 2017.  She said her 
daughter was waiting for treatment on the NHS  and Mrs L wanted  compensation  for the 
additional psychological impact the delay had on her daughter.
Before I made my first provisional decision I asked Mrs L to update  me about any treatment 
her daughter  had or was due to have and about  whether she and her family  had renewed 
the 2017 policy. Mrs L told us that she paid for the private assessment in June  2018.  Her 
daughter had the treatment she needed  on the NHS, with the same consultant shed seen in 
2018, and no further treatment is currently scheduled. But her daughter had been 
experiencing difficulties with breathing and her nose has been  swelling  so shes  likely to 
have to see the consultant for further diagnosis and possible  further treatment. She also said 
the policy had been renewed  as her husband now unfortunately had a new serious medical 
condition which the policy covered.
Ive made  two provisional decisions.
my first provisional decision
I explained why I was intending  to uphold Mrs Ls complaint against Usay.  I said:
This decision is just about whether Usay mis-sold the 2017 policy.  Ive made a separate  
decision about the insurer of the 2017 policy which declined the claim and placed an 
exclusion on the policy. Both are provisional decisions as depending  on what further 
evidence I receive I may need to reconsider which business is responsible  for putting things 
right.
On the evidence I have Im intending to uphold the complaint against Usay. Ill explain why
Ive listened to the calls between Mrs L and Usay in 2016 and 2017. Although the sale of the 
policy sale in 2017 is the key issue Mrs L says that her answers  to the questions in 2017  
followed on from her disclosure for the 2016 policy purchase. Having listened to all the calls 
I think there is some cross over.
In the 2016 sale conversation Mrs L told Usay that when her daughter had been seen by the 
consultant (in 2015)  they didnt want to do anything because shes  young  and they wanted to 
see how the problem  sorted itself out. When Usay asked Mrs L if the specialist wanted to do 
anything about  her daughters nose she said no. In the context of the conversation I think 
that was a reasonable response. Usay hadnt  asked a clear question  about whether there 
was any planned  assessment. The medical evidence supports  that there was no active 
medical treatment planned  at that time. When in the 2017 sales call Usay  summarised  her 
2016 disclosure  as nothing doing and nothing currently planned Mrs L could reasonably  
confirm that was the case as no treatment in the usual meaning  of the word planned.
During the sale of the 2017  policy Usay  asked Mrs L:
Do you or any person to be insured have any planned or expected  out-patient, day-
patient or in-patient treatment for any condition not already  disclosed  in answer to 
questions 1, 2 or 3?
Ref: DRN02948053Mrs L answered no to that question. Usay and the insurer say Mrs L should  have answered 
yes because her daughter  had a planned or expected assessment for her nasal problem.
The consultants 2015 report  said:
(Mrs Ls daughters) nasal airways are slightly reduced on the left hand side due to a 
mild deviation  of the nasal septum and I have explained to (Mrs L and her daughter) 
that there  is nothing to be done until she is nearly  16 years  of age. I think  she would 
benefit from having a formal assessment in 18 months time
Mrs L says the report is clear that her daughter had no active  treatment  planned, just an 
assessment. The insurer  and the broker havent  disputed that.
But the 2017 policy defines  treatment  as:
Surgical or medical  services (including  diagnostic tests) that are needed to diagnose, 
relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury.
The policy definition of treatment would include an assessment which means Mrs Ls 
daughter did have planned or expected treatment under that definition.
I accept Mrs Ls point  that given the usual meaning of the word  treatment most consumers 
wouldnt consider  that treatment would include a medical assessment.
During the sales process Usay didnt explain to Mrs L how the policy  defined  treatment.  So 
Mrs L didnt have that information when  she was asked the questions  about treatment. I 
think that was important information because  the policy  definition  of treatment was broad.  It 
included, for example, diagnostic tests.
I note that the application  form which contained  the questions  Usay asked Mrs L on sale was 
branded by the insurer. Its probable  that Usay was asking questions  set by the insurer.  But 
on the evidence  I have the insurer wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy to Mrs L.
I dont think Usay was acting as the insurers agent when it sold the policy.  Ive seen no 
evidence that Usay was acting as the insurers appointed representative.  Although I dont 
think the Usay  charged Mrs L a fee Ive looked  at its website and it works with a range of 
insurers and describes itself as an intermediary. So Im satisfied Usay was giving Mrs L 
impartial advice following a review  of the market,  acting  on her behalf  as her agent.
So it was Usays responsibility  to ensure  that Mrs L had the information she needed to be 
able to accurately  answer the questions. And as it was giving advice it had an overall 
responsibility to make  sure the policy was suitable for her demands and needs.
Usay says it can only advise Mrs L about a policy on the basis of her answers and if it had 
been told about her daughters planned assessment that would  have affected  the advice it 
gave her. I accept that. But as Usay didnt  give Mrs L the policy definition of treatment.it 
didnt give her full information  she needed  to make accurate  disclosure.  Without  Usay  telling 
Mrs L the policy definition  of treatment I think she could reasonably  understand that 
treatment wouldnt include an assessment. I think Usay did mis-sell the policy.
The result of the mis-sale  is that Mrs Ls daughters nasal problems are excluded by the 
policy although Mrs L took reasonable care in answering the question asked when she was 
Ref: DRN02948054sold the policy. I think that if Mrs L had been made  aware of the policy  definition  of treatment 
she would  have disclosed her daughters  previous appointment  and the planned future  
appointment. Had she done  so it seems unlikely that she would have gone ahead  with this 
particular policy as she was looking for a policy which  would cover  her daughter  if she 
needed treatment  in the future. I think its more likely than not that she would  have been  able 
to find such a policy at a price she was prepared to pay.
Mrs L is now aware of the exclusion and, as Ive explained in my decision in relation to the 
insurer, Im satisfied its fair that the insurer applies the exclusion. Even though I think  Usay  
mis-sold the policy it doesnt  mean  that I can direct the insurer to remove  the exclusion. So I 
need to decide how Usay  can best put things  right.
Usay should pay the cost of the private assessment in June  2018  plus interest as Ive 
detailed below, on Mrs L sending it proof  shes paid for the assessment.
I understand that Mrs Ls daughter may require further assessment and treatment for her 
nasal problem. This leaves Mrs L in an uncertain position for the remainder of this policy  
year. As things stand the insurer will not cover  any assessment or treatment because  of the 
exclusion that has been applied. But theres no specific financial loss at the moment 
because, as I understand it, Mrs Ls daughter hasnt actually been  referred  for further 
assessment or treatment  at this stage.
Im making this decision very close to the 2019/20  policy year end (27 January).  So I think  a 
fair outcome is if Mrs Ls daughter needs to make a further claim in the 2019/20 policy  year, 
or if Mrs L renews the policy then up to the next policy renewal date in 2021, she should 
submit the claim to Usay  with supporting  medical  evidence as to the need  for treatment. 
I direct  Usay  to pay the claim  subject  to the remaining policy terms and conditions. Mrs L has 
the option to move to a different insurer at the time of policy  renewal or to keep  this policy  in 
place. Shes  now in a position to make an informed  choice about her options for the 2020/21 
policy year.
Its fair for me to tell Mrs L that if Usay refuse to pay if she claims in either  policy year its 
unlikely she would be able to bring a complaint  to us about the refusal as thats unlikely to be 
in our jurisdiction. She would need  to go to court about the matter.
I also think its fair and reasonable for Usay to pay Mrs L compensation for her and her 
daughters distress and inconvenience for two reasons.
First, Mrs L and her daughter are left with an unreasonable level of uncertainty  thats likely to 
cause them both distress  and inconvenience. They know that the issue  wont be covered by 
the insurer for the remainder of the policy year, if they renew the policy future claims on the 
issue will be fairly declined by their insurer and theyll need to contact Usay to ask them  to 
cover the cost for any treatment. This is unnecessary inconvenience as a direct result of the 
policy being mis-sold by Usay.
Second, Im sorry to see Mrs L has said the delay due to having the operation on the NHS 
badly affected  her daughter. Ive no medical  evidence that the delay  did have a significant 
psychological impact  on her. I also note the consultants June 2018 report said Mrs Ls 
daughter would potentially benefit from a septorhinoplasty when she is at least  17 years  
old. So the earliest she would have had the operation would have been at the end 2018 and 
she has the operation  in spring 2019.  At most there  was a couple  of months delay due to the 
procedure being  done on the NHS.  However, there  would have been some distress  and 
Ref: DRN02948055inconvenience to Mrs L and her daughter in using NHS facilities instead  of private facilities.  
ts an important time in Mrs Ls daughters life and I can understand why accessing private 
treatment would be beneficial at her age to plan around examinations.  I also accept the 
delay would have  caused some general  impact on Mrs Ls daughters confidence.
I think £500 in total is a reasonable amount  for Mrs L and her daughters  overall distress and 
inconvenience.
Mrs L says shes spent  many hours  on her complaint. But I dont generally award 
compensation for the time a consumer spends  on a complaint and theres no reason for me 
to do so in this case.
responses to my first provisional decision
Mrs L said she was disappointed  I hadnt upheld her complaint against the insurer. She 
thought the insurer had acted unreasonably in saying the consultants review  was planned 
or anticipated or treatment. However she wanted  things put right for her and said she 
would accept my provisional decision about Usay if she received Usays written  confirmation 
that it will pay for the initial consultation  plus interest,  £500  compensation and that it will 
cover private costs for any future  treatment  in the 2020/21 policy  year.
Usay disagreed strongly with my findings. In summary it said:
the policy application form was created by the insurer. Usay  asked  the application 
questions exactly as the insurer intended.  The application form doesnt say the policy 
terms should be read with the application  form
the insurer had introduced a portal  since Ms Ls policy was sold, in place of the 
application form. Brokers and consumers can use the portal  and the insurer doesnt 
explain the policy definition of treatment or any other  terms referred to which could 
cause brokers and consumers difficulties
if the insurers policy definition of treatment was unusual its the insurers  
responsibility to make  the definition  clear as part of the policy application, not the 
brokers or consumers responsibility to refer to the policy terms. Usay  shouldnt be 
held to a higher standard than the insurer
several other insurers gave definitions  or explanation about terminology they used in 
their application  forms for other  insurances (it sent examples). The relevant insurer  
gave explanation of some terms in its full medical underwriting  application  form for 
private medical insurance but not the switch  application
in Mrs Ls written  claim  form she was asked to give dates and details of all 
symptoms treatment  advice and medication  for her daughters  condition  since a 
date in 2012 and now. Mrs Ls response included that her daughter  had been 
advised review when  she was 16. So Mrs L was aware she needed to disclose the 
consultants review,  particularly given her profession, and she should have been 
disclosed the review  at the original policy application
if the consultants  review was just advice the insurer  couldnt  fairly say the review met 
the policy definition  of treatment and apply  the specific exclusion for Mr Ls 
daughters condition to the policy.
my second  provisional findings
In my second provisional decision  I explained  why I still thought Usay was responsible for 
the mis-sale but that the outcome of the complaint should be different. I said:
Ref: DRN02948056why Usay is responsible for mis-sale of the policy
Ive only summarised Usays  response to my first provisional decision but I have considered  
all the information  its provided. I still think Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld against Usay.
I dont think Usays points about  the insurers new portal are relevant to this complaint. The 
portal wasnt used for Mrs Ls policy application.  If in the future  consumers complain to us 
about issues that arise  due to the wording  in the portal we will consider on the individual  
facts of those future complaints.
I also dont think the wording other insurers use in their application forms or the relevant 
insurer uses in another  application form are relevant to this complaint. I need to consider  the 
application process that Mrs L went through.
I explained in my provisional decision  why I thought  it probable that Usay was asking Mrs L 
questions set by the insurer  and Usays confirmed that was so. I understand Usay believes 
very strongly  that its the insurers responsibility to make any unusual  definitions clear  as part 
of the policy  application, not the brokers responsibility to refer to the policy terms.
But the important  point is Usay made an advised sale of the policy  to Mrs L. I set out in my 
first provisional decision why I thought Usay wasnt acting as the insurers  agent or as its 
appointed representative. Usay hasnt  sent any evidence thats changed  my mind  on that 
point.
I think Usay was responsible for the sale of the policy to Mrs L. So it was Usays 
responsibility to ensure  that Mrs L had the information she needed to be able to accurately 
answer the questions  the insurer had set.
The questions Mrs L was asked included about treatment. The policy definition of treatment  
is broad  and includes matters that I think most  consumers wouldnt consider as treatment. 
During the sales process Usay didnt explain to Mrs L how the policy  defined  treatment.  
I think it would have  been reasonable for Usay to have explained the definition as part of an 
advised sale. Without Usay telling Mrs L the policy definition of treatment I think she could 
reasonably understand that treatment  wouldnt include an assessment by the consultant. 
I think Usay did mis-sell the policy.
Its clear that Usay believes its been  put in a difficult position by the insurer  not making clear 
the policy definition  of treatment within the policy application.  But thats a matter  for Usay to 
take up with the insurer,  if it wishes.
I dont think Mrs Ls response  to the question in the claim form Usay  referred  to means  she 
knew the consultant review  was treatment. The question specifically asked about advice 
received on the condition  and I think its more likely than not that advice prompted Mrs L to 
give details about  the review. In the original  2016 policy application  (with  a different insurer) 
and in the 2017 switch  application (with the relevant insurer) Mrs L wasnt  asked what advice 
had been received about her daughters medical condition.  Ive explained in my provisional 
decision why I think Mrs L gave reasonable answers  to the questions she was actually 
asked.
Both Usay  and Mrs L say the insurer didnt fairly consider that the consultant assessment 
met the policy definition  of treatment, but I think it did. Treatment includes medical  services,  
Ref: DRN02948057including diagnostic tests,  that are needed to relieve a medical condition.  The consultants  
2015 report says there  was nothing to be done about Mrs Ls daughters medical  condition  
because of her age in 2015 and she would benefit from having a formal assessment in 
18 months time
Even if the result of the assessment had been that nothing needed to be done the 
assessment was for the consultant to consider what could be done  to relieve the medical 
condition. I think its clear  from the consultants 2015  report said that the assessment was 
planned or expected. Im satisfied that the insurer did fairly apply the specific policy 
exclusion in respect  of Mrs Ls daughters condition and not cover the condition.
amended outcome
Since my first provisional decision two important matters have occurred. First, the policy 
renewal date has passed so Mrs Ls not able to make a claim in the 2019/20  policy year. 
Mrs L renewed the policy for 2020/1  knowing the exclusion was in place. Second,  theres the 
extraordinary coronavirus pandemic and the ongoing uncertainty about  when any treatment 
(if needed)  could occur, which may not be in the 2020/1 policy  year. The availability of 
treatment is outside  Usays control.
Im intending  to direct that Usay pay the outstanding  June 2018 consultant fee plus interest, 
pay compensation as Ive detailed below and pay for another  consultation  fee for 
assessment of Mr Ls daughters nasal septum  deviation. Its clear that another consultant  
assessment would be needed  in the future to assess whether further treatment is medically  
necessary. The fact that another consultant  assessment would be needed is the only 
certainty.
If further treatment is needed  after the consultant  assessment  Mrs Ls daughter wont  be 
covered for that treatment  under the policy. But I dont  think its fair for me to say Usay  must 
also pay for any further treatment. Mrs L renewed  the policy knowing the exclusion is in 
place. If she then wants to take out alternative insurance which wouldnt exclude the medical  
condition she can do so.
Given the circumstances I think its fair for me to increase the compensation Usay  should 
pay to reflect  the increased uncertainty caused to Mrs L and her daughter.  I think £800 (so 
£400 each) to Mrs L for her and her daughters distress and inconvenience is reasonable.
As Usay didnt agree with my first provisional findings its not going to provide the written  
confirmation Mrs L asks for. Once  I make a final decision if Usay refuses to pay for the costs 
and compensation  then Mrs L will have my final decision  that she could go to court  to 
enforce. Ive explained  in my first provisional  decision that its unlikely she would be able to 
bring a complaint to us about the refusal  as thats  unlikely  to be in our jurisdiction.
responses to my second provisional  decision
Mrs L said she was willing to accept  my provisional  second  decision.
Usay said it didnt agree with my decision in principle but to finalise matters  it agreed to 
settle the complaint as outlined in my second provisional decision. However it said it wanted 
to only pay interest on the cost of the 2018 private assessment from the date Mrs L paid the 
cost until seven days after my final decision as it was concerned Mrs L could  delay sending  
evidence of the cost which would increase the interest. 
Ref: DRN02948058Usay also said that although I proposed it should pay the consultation fee for another 
assessment of Mr Ls daughters medical condition  subject to the remaining policy terms 
and conditions it didnt  think  such a consultation  would be covered by the policy. However 
Usay said it agreed to pay for the consultation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Usays  request  about  interest on the 2018  consultation  fee payment . But 
I dont think its reasonable for me to limit the end date of the interest  to seven  days  after my 
final decision. I wouldnt generally do so, and I and Usay have no reason  to think Mrs L 
would delay sending  proof of payment of the consultation fee just to increase the interest  
payable. Mrs Ls already asked whether she should  send the evidence to us or Usay.  She 
should send it direct to Usay.
I note Usay thinks the consultation  fee for another assessment of Mrs Ls daughters medical  
condition isnt covered under the policy. I dont need  to make a finding  about that because 
even if I agreed with Usay  its agreed to pay the cost and its fair and reasonable that it 
should do so. For the avoidance of doubt  Ive removed  the wording subject to the remaining 
policy terms and conditions in my final decision.
Neither party has given  any reason  to persuade me to come to a different outcome. So for 
the reasons given in my first and second provisional findings I uphold  this complaint. I think  
Usay is responsible for the mis-sale of the policy to Mrs L and Ive set out below what  Usay 
needs to do.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint against Usay Business Limited.
I require Usay Business  Limited to:
pay the costs of the private assessment in June 2018 plus interest  at 8% simple a 
year from the date Mrs L made payment to the date of settlement, on Mrs L sending 
it proof shes paid for the assessment
pay £800 to Mrs L for her and her daughters distress and inconvenience
pay the consultation fee for another assessment of Mrs Ls daughters  nasal septum 
deviation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Usay Business  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs L how much its taken off. It should also give 
Ref: DRN02948059Mrs L a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0294805