K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL)  mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I sent Mr W and FICL a provisional  decision on 12 August 2019 to explain why I wasnt 
intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional  decision is set out below:
When selling the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Mr W that he had a choice about  it. But 
Mr W says he only applied for the store card in order  to get a discount on items he was 
purchasing, and that he was told that all sections of the form needed to be completed or his 
application for the card wouldnt be approved.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mr Ws application form for the store card.  This included  a 
section on PPI, with a box to be ticked if Mr W wanted to take it out. And the box has been 
ticked.
Several other sections on the form have been left blank, including  one for Mr Ws 
employment details.  And there is a section for card protection with a box to be ticked  if Mr W 
wanted to take this out, but this box hasnt been ticked.
If Mr W thought  that all the section on the form had to be completed,  then I would have  
expected the section  for his employment details to be completed. And if Mr W thought he 
had to accept  all additional products offered, then I would expect the box for card protection 
to have been ticked.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think FICL  did make  it clear to Mr W that he had a choice  
about the PPI. And that Mr W chose to take it, knowing he didnt  have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mr W any personalised advice about  the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to him. This means FICL didnt have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mr W. But it did have to make sure he got the information he needed to decide 
if it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the cover. So it looks like the PPI couldve been useful to him if something  went wrong.
Mr W initially told us he wouldve  been  entitled to significant employee  benefits if he was 
unable to work due to sickness,  and so he didnt need the PPI. But FICL has sent us a copy  
of a previous questionnaire in which Mr W said he was entitled  to significantly less sick pay 
than he told us. And Mr W has since sent us a copy of his employment contract, which 
shows he was entitled to significantly less sick pay than he initially  told us.
So the PPI policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than it appears Mr W wouldve  
been entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant he wouldnt need to rely on any savings he 
had to make  his repayments if he wasnt earning.  So I still think  it couldve been useful to 
him. And so I dont  think  better information  about the PPI wouldve put Mr W off taking it out.
Ref: DRN01586332I said Id consider anything further Mr W and FICL  sent in. FICL hasnt sent in anything 
further. Mr W made a number of points  which I will address below.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Mr W questioned whether his statement that he was told that if he didnt take the PPI then he 
wouldnt be able to have  the store card was overlooked. I can assure both Mr W and FICL 
that I considered all the evidence and arguments they sent us. I didnt  specifically mention 
Mr W saying he was told he wouldnt get the store card if he didnt take PPI. But I did explain 
that I thought FICL made it clear to him that he had a choice  about  the PPI. And I still think 
this is the case,  for the same reasons.
Mr W said the sections of the form he didnt fill in were crossed  out and that he was guided 
on what to complete on the form. Some of the sections on the form have been  crossed  out. 
But the sections  for his nearest relative  and on card protection  werent  crossed out and 
havent been filled in. So I still dont think its likely he was told he had to complete every 
section on the form or accept all additional products offered.
Mr W also said the application form had alterations in a different handwriting  style,  and that 
the PPI and card protection sections  only have yes boxes and no a no option. But, as 
Mr W has suggested he only took the PPI because he was told he had to and had to 
complete all the sections  on the form, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude 
that he didnt tick the box for the PPI and that it was later ticked  by FICL. And, in any event,  if 
FICL was adding products to customers applications, I would have  expected it to add all the 
additional products,  not just PPI. So I dont  think  theres enough evidence to say any 
amendments or selections were  made  against Mr Ws wishes.
Mr W also said he had enough savings to cover the credit limit on the account and wouldve 
been entitled to significant sick pay from his employer so didnt need the PPI. But, as I 
explained in my provisional decision,  Mr W has sent us a copy  of his employment contract. 
And the policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than this shows he wouldve been  
entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant  he could  use his savings for other expenses, 
rather than his card repayments,  if he wasnt earning. So I still think it couldve been useful to 
him.
Finally, Mr W said his eligibility wasnt validated against his circumstances. But, from what 
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, he would have been  eligible for the policy.  And he 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the cover. So the PPI 
could have been useful to him.
And so I still think the conclusions set out in my provisional decision are correct.
Ref: DRN01586333my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019 .
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0158633