K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited  (previously AXA)  mis-sold 
them a mortgage  endowment policy. Their  complaint  was originally made through  a claims 
management company  (CMC),  who said, amongst others, the policy  was mis-sold as they 
werent made aware of the risk of investing  and their attitude to risk wasnt established, they 
werent warned  of a possible shortfall  and were told the policy  would repay their mortgage, 
and they were told they had to have it. 
Since the complaint has been  considered here, the CMC is no longer representing them.
background
In 1998, Mr and Mrs M contacted an office  of AXA to take out an endowment  policy. They  
didnt receive any advice, even though it was offered. Paperwork was sent out to them, 
including an application form,  an illustration of the policy, which  included  information about 
the fees and charges, and an execution  only form. They completed  the application and direct 
debit mandate  on 10 December  1998  and the execution  only form four days later. 
In July 2018, they complained, via their CMC, about the sale of the policy.  Aviva considered 
the complaint  but didnt uphold it; it said no advice was provided and therefore  it wasnt 
responsible for establishing the suitability  of the policy. Not happy with that the CMC asked 
us to look into the complaint. Although it was brought outside of the six-month referral 
period, Aviva  consented to our consideration of the complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She was also satisfied that as the sale was 
execution only  that no advice was given   Aviva wasnt responsible for ensuring the 
suitability of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M asked  for the matter to be referred  to an ombudsman. In summary,  they say:
They were pressured into having the insurance despite having sufficient cover  for 
their monthly commitments.
They were told not taking out the insurance  would  affect  the lending  decision. 
They asked how long they were off for before making a claim and was told 90 days. 
They question the need to take out a policy if they arent going to get help for three  
months. 
They didnt need protection given the existing  sickness benefits they had through  
work. 
The matter  was referred to me. I noted that the arguments  Mr and Mrs M made against the 
sale of the policy were relevant to payment protection not an endowment  policy.  But they still 
want a decision as they say they were led to believe this policy  would cover  their mortgage 
repayments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator and for much the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN02587612There has clearly been  some confusion over this case. When the CMC initially  made the 
complaint, the complaint letter was at pains to point out the complaint related to an 
endowment policy and not PPI  this was written in bold. And most of the complaint points 
made were of the nature I would expect to see about the sale of an endowment policy  for 
mortgage repayment purposes. Hence my clarification  to Mr and Mrs M.
They still consider  they were  led to believe this policy was some form of payment protection 
insurance (PPI). I know Mr and Mrs M have made  other PPI complaints so it perhaps 
understandable they have got this policy confused  with PPI. But there is no 
contemporaneous evidence that the policy was supposed to be PPI rather  than an 
endowment. 
The note the staff member made in 1998 confirmed Mr and Mrs M had called the office  to 
arrange for an endowment policy to be sent up for £42,500 over a term of 18 years.  They 
were sent an application  form; an illustration and an execution  only form to sign.  The 
application, which Mr and Mrs M signed  on 10 December 1998,  applies for an endowment 
policy with the sum assured and term referred  to above. The policy  was to be invested  into 
the with profits fund at an assumed rate of growth of 7%. The illustration  they were  sent 
provided information about the policy, the fees and charges  and projected  what  the policy  
would achieve  at four rates of growth  5, 7, 7.5 and 10%. At the 5% rate the policy was 
projected to have a shortfall, but it was projected to meet or exceed the sum assured at the 
others. 
The paperwork was very clear that it was an endowment policy  applied  for. If Mr and Mrs M 
thought it was something different, then I would question why they didnt  query this at the 
time. Instead, they signed the execution only form on 14 December 1998, to say they hadnt 
requested, nor had they received, investment advice from AXA.  On that basis,  AXA wasnt  
required to ensure the policy was suitable  or that it met their needs and circumstances  that 
was something Mr and Mrs M needed  to do themselves. And Im satisfied the information  
provided was clear,  such that they could make  an informed  decision. 
Having considered the matter carefully,  Im satisfied the policy  applied  for was an 
endowment and this was clear from the paperwork at the time.  The paperwork showed it 
wasnt a guaranteed investment and was something Mr and Mrs M had requested  rather  
than was told they had to have. They freely signed the execution only form confirming they 
didnt ask for nor were they given  investment  advice.  I therefore dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 January 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ref: DRN02587613ombudsman
Ref: DRN0258761