K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded or protected  him from the loss of
£7,000 to a scam.
background
Mr C says that on 20 March 2017  he visited an HSBC branch to make a payment  for a farm
machine he had seen advertised  on eBay.  He says hed never used eBay before and his
partner recommended it. He says he has not retained a copy of the advertisement; he
doesnt remember being given any payment method options beyond the account details of
where to send the money to; and that, because of the nature of the payment, he decided to
go to an HSBC branch  to make it.
Mr C recalls that at the branch the staff member on the front desk, whom hed dealt with
before, asked him why he didnt make the payment through online banking  to which  he
responded that he didnt do online banking and that he didnt know  how to. Mr C recalls that
the staff member asked  him what the payment  was for; he said it was for a farm vehicle. The
staff member said she was familiar  with the type of farm vehicle as she also had a farm.
Mr C thinks he also told the staff member  that hed seen  it on eBay. He recalls  that it was a
casual conversation, that the staff member  didnt ask him any further  questions  or advise
him of alternative ways  to make the payment; and that she was seated at a separate desk
from the counter  to help with queries, and she got up from her desk to help him at the
screens. He recalls that she asked him for his VISA debit card;  she processed the payment
on the screen for him including entering the recipients  details;  and she then looked away  as
he entered his PIN to authorise the payment.
The payment was for £7,000 and debited Mr Cs account on 20 March 2017.
It later became apparent to Mr C, on non-receipt of the farm vehicle, that he had been
scammed by the seller. He reported  this to HSBC,  and also to the receiving bank
separately. Unfortunately, neither bank was able to recover Mr Cs money  from the account
to which  he sent it.
Mr C was unhappy and complained about  both HSBC and the receiving bank (Mr Cs
complaint about  the receiving bank was considered  and decided here under a separate
reference, the outcome of which was that the receiving bank was not responsible  for the loss
of the £7,000 but that it should pay Mr C £250 for the service it provided).
HSBC didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint. In summary, HSBC thinks that it didnt  do anything
wrong and that it tried its best to recover  Mr Cs money from the receiving bank but
ultimately it was unable to through no fault of its own.
Mr C referred  his complaint about HSBC to us. An investigator reviewed the case  and didnt
uphold the complaint in 2017. This was reconsidered, however, and in December  2019  the
investigator issued  her revised assessment  that HSBC missed an opportunity  to prevent
Mr C losing the money to the scam   and that it should  therefore  refund him the £7,000.
HSBC didnt accept  the investigators recommendation. As an agreement couldnt be found 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision. 
On 14 September  2020 I issued a provisional decision in which  I said:
Ref: DRN06748582Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr C was the victim of a
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to request the payment. So, although
he did not intend the money to go to the scammers,  under the Payment Services
Regulations, and the terms and conditions  of his account, Mr C is presumed  liable for the
loss in the first instance.
However, taking account of the law, regulatory  rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good  industry practice  at the time, I consider that it would have been fair and
reasonable for HSBC to have:
 monitored accounts  and any payments made or received  in order to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams;
 maintained systems  to look out for unusual and uncharacteristic transactions, 
or other indicators that its customers  were at risk of fraud (amongst other  
things), particularly given the increase  in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more  familiar  with than the average 
customer;
 taken additional steps or made  additional checks  in some circumstances  
irrespective of the payment channel used  before processing a payment; or in 
some cases, to have  declined to make a payment altogether  in order  to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm  from fraud;  and
 followed the Banking Protocol where  appropriate for branch transactions such  
as this.
In this case, I need to decide  whether HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with
Mr C when it processed the £7,000 payment.
As Ive explained, as a matter of good practice, HSBC staff should  have been on the lookout
for unusual  or uncharacteristic transactions. I am satisfied that Mr Cs authorised payment of
£7,000 to a new payee was such a payment in the context of this case.
I understand that HSBC has said the branch staff are unable to remember Mr C due to the
time that has passed. I am also aware that HSBC  has said that it appears Mr C would have
completed the payment at a self-service kiosk  and that it appears  the staff member would
simply have set up the payment for Mr C, inputting  the customers requested details.  This
isnt inconsistent with what  Mr C has said. And I do find Mr Cs recollections about a
discussion with the staff member plausible and persuasive  that he was asked some  limited
questions about  the payment, and that the staff member  helped  him put the payment
through.
Mr Cs payment request  was for a significant amount (£7,000) and to a new payee.  Having
seen Mr Cs account statements dating back to 14 December 2016,  I can see the largest
payment he made on his account prior to 20 March 2017 was for £1,860.34 on 26 January
2017. He also made  a four-figure payment of £1,680  on 24 January 2017,  but his normal
expenditure was much  lower than this. I am therefore satisfied that the payment request
was, in the context  of Mr Cs recent spending activity, a significant increase in spending (and
also, as I have said, to a new payee).
Ref: DRN06748583I understand that Mr Cs account went from having  been overdrawn in December 2016 and
part of January 2017, to being substantially in credit following a credit  to the account on 19
January 2017  of £132,534. However,  I understand HSBC has said the staff member wasnt
acting as a teller and there would have been  no way of her determining  whether the payment
represented a sudden increase in spending. So I think, irrespective of the recent credit to
Mr Cs account  which Ive seen no evidence the staff member was aware  of at that time 
the staff member should have thought this was a payment  request from a customer who said
he was unfamiliar with making payments this way, and that the payment of £7,000 was
sizeable and very possibility unusual and uncharacteristic for Mr C. So I dont think  this
absolves HSBC  of its corporate  responsibility  to look out for such triggers. And I am satisfied
from the evidence  that there was interaction between  Mr C and the staff member  and, in my
opinion, his payment  request in branch was sufficiently unusual to warrant  some basic
probing enquiries from HSBC before putting the request through.  Mr C appears to have been
unfamiliar with making payments like this before  hence why he asked in branch  for
assistance. So there was a clear and natural opportunity for HSBC  to have asked some
simple questions to satisfy itself that Mr C was not being scammed.
I accept there is a balance to be struck  between identifying payments that could potentially
be fraudulent and ensuring minimal  disruption  to legitimate payments. But it is a question of
fact and degree in each  individual case. I do not think  the general  desirability  of commercial
efficacy and faster payments  means HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably in the particular
circumstances of Mr Cs case.  I accept HSBCs point  that customers do from time-to-time
instruct legitimate  payments  that are unusual  compared to their usual account activity  and
significant in terms  of value. But that doesnt  mean a bank shouldnt  make reasonable
enquiries when  there  are clear triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic activity.
So, taking everything  into account to decide what is fair and reasonable in this particular
case, I am satisfied that as a matter  of good practice, given the unusual and uncharacteristic
nature of the payment  request, HSBC  should have made at least  some  basic enquiries
before putting  the payment request through.
I appreciate HSBC says it wasnt and isnt required to act as an amateur detective; and that
it doesnt think further questioning of Mr C would have made a difference. To be clear,
however, Im not suggesting  Mr C should  have  been  subject to an interrogation  merely,  in
the circumstances, reasonable probing questioning designed to make Mr C and the staff
member think  carefully about the proposed transaction  and therefore  expose any potential
fraud before the risk of financial  harm arose.  It is important to bear in mind that HSBC  was
the financial professional with plenty  of experience and knowledge  of the most  commonplace
fraud and scams; whereas Mr C was just an ordinary  customer  who clearly appeared to be
unfamiliar with how to make such a large  or indeed any  transaction  of this nature. This
should have triggered appropriate questions.
Ive therefore  thought  carefully about whether  the kind of questions that I believe ought fairly
and reasonably to have  been asked by HSBC  would have  made a difference.
I understand from Mr Cs submissions that he isnt certain that he volunteered to the staff
member that he had seen  the farm vehicle for sale on eBay. But that is immaterial.  The staff
member asked Mr C what the payment was for. Given what I have already explained above,
including about  the increase in fraud and scams in recent years,  I think  HSBC ought
reasonably to have  gone  on to ask Mr C where  he had seen the farm vehicle advertised (if
he hadnt already  said)  and what, if anything, he knew  about  the seller.  If that had happened,
Ref: DRN06748584it probably would have become apparent to the staff member that Mr C didnt have a clear
understanding of why he had been asked to make the payment by bank transfer  as opposed
to other  more usual  eBay payment methods with inbuilt protections against fraud and scams
(such as PayPal/Escrow), that he hadnt  seen  the farm vehicle, and that he knew  nothing
about its provenance or the identity and credentials of the seller.  In other words, the staff
members basic  and reasonable  enquiries would probably have escalated into major
concerns  and it seems  likely they would have then asked more probing  questions and/or
given Mr C an express warning about fraud and scams (if not actually taking more
interventionist steps to prevent the payment there  and then).
Mr C says this was the first time he had used eBay,  and that if hed been made aware of the
possibility he was potentially being  scammed, he wouldnt have  made the payment but
would instead  have said he needed to see the goods before he made the payment. I have
seen nothing that leads me to doubt  this. And whilst I appreciate HSBC couldnt have known
that Mr C was about to be scammed, it could have  warned him of the possibility.  Some  basic
context around eBay, more usual methods of paying for goods through  eBay,  and the nature
of push payments  in general and potential  scams  would, in my view,  also have made a
difference here. So I do think  HSBC could and should have done more  before it simply
helped Mr C put through the payment request. Had it done so, I consider Mr C and the staff
member most likely would  have realised there were reasonable grounds  for suspecting that
something might be amiss and not have gone ahead with the payment, so he would not
have lost £7,000.
For completeness, I am satisfied that HSBC did all it reasonably could to try to recover  the
money from the receiving  bank  but as is often the way, the scammers  had removed the
stolen funds before there was any chance  of freezing and recovering them.
I have considered whether Mr C should  bear some responsibility by way of contributory
negligence (which  might justify a reduction  in compensation). However,  it is clear  that up to
and including  the time of authorising the payment, Mr C was still totally in the dark and
simply did not appreciate  what  he was doing  or the potential consequences of his actions.
He thought he was simply  buying farm machinery through a legitimate trading website and,
due to his inexperience and lack of information,  didnt realise that this was an unusual
payment method or foresee any risk of loss.
Whilst there is information on eBay about  fraud and scams, this would  not in itself justify a
finding of contributory negligence in circumstances where we are satisfied  a customer
genuinely did not entertain any reasonable grounds for suspicion at the time and was
therefore not acting carelessly  or turning a blind eye to concerns about risks that were
reasonably foreseeable to him at the time.  I am satisfied there was no contributory
negligence on this occasion; Mr C was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of clever
fraudsters  and he could see no risk of harm because, unlike the bank, he had no
knowledge or experience of such online scams.
For all the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable, in the particular
circumstances of this complaint, to say HSBC ought to have done  more to help Mr C. Had it
done so, Im persuaded Mr C wouldnt have been duped  into authorising the payment  and
suffered the loss of £7,000. HSBC should therefore pay Mr C £7,000 to reimburse him.
Ive thought about an appropriate interest  rate that HSBC should pay to compensate Mr C
for having been deprived of this money.  Mr C has explained that he ended up buying
another machine but was more cautious  and wanted  to see the machine before buying and
Ref: DRN06748585that he worked something out with the bank to do this securely. And he says, but for the
scam, the money he lost would have been  kept in his savings account earning an interest
rate of perhaps  less than 2% per annum. I am therefore satisfied  that a fair rate of interest
here, to reflect Mr C from having been deprived of this money,  is the prevailing interest rate
on Mr Cs savings account  from the date of loss to the date of settlement. If HSBC deducts
tax from this interest, it should  provide  Mr C with the appropriate tax deduction  certificate.
Finally, Ive considered  whether HSBC should pay Mr C compensation for the distress and
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of HSBCs actions. In considering  this, Ive
specifically thought about the impact of HSBCs  actions, rather  than the impact  of the crime
itself. HSBCs failure to act has had an impact  on Mr C, not least because he has been
facing the very real possibility for some time that he would not get his money  back. As Ive
explained, HSBC  had the opportunity to prevent  the scam before the payment was made. It
didnt and (through no fault of its own) wasnt able to recover the money. For these reasons,
Im satisfied HSBC should also pay Mr C £200  for distress and inconvenience.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold this complaint against HSBC UK
Bank Plc  and to direct it to:
Pay Mr C £7,000  within 28 days of receiving his acceptance of my final decision;
Pay Mr C interest on that amount at the prevailing rate of his savings account, from 20 
March 2017 to the date of settlement. If HSBC deducts tax from this interest, it should 
provide Mr C with the appropriate tax deduction certificate;  and
Pay Mr C £200 for distress and inconvenience within 28 days of receiving his 
acceptance of my final decision,  failing which interest will thereafter accrue on that 
sum at the simple  rate of 8% a year until the date of payment.
Mr C responded to say he accepted my provisional  decision. HSBC responded and made a 
number of further points which Ill address below. Now both sides have had the opportunity 
to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  outcome  as in my provisional decision, and for 
materially the same reasons. 
HSBC places emphasis  on the legal case of Barclays Bank plc v Quincecare Ltd [1992] 4
All ER 363, which it feels I didnt  address  sufficiently. It says the Quincecare ruling means its 
responsibility to be alert to fraud is subordinate to its contractual duty to promptly execute a 
payment order.
We have to take account of relevant law  but were not bound by it because of our wider 
fair and reasonable jurisdiction. Nevertheless, Ive considered Quincecare carefully  but it 
doesnt change  my mind  as to whether HSBC ought  to have intervened  in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  It is well-established that there is a balance  to be struck. The ratio of 
Ref: DRN06748586Quincecare was neatly summarised by the then President of the Supreme Court,  Lady Hale, 
in her judgment in Singularis Holdings Ltd v Daiwa Capital  Markets Europe Ltd [2019] UKSC  
50:
[The judge]  held that it was an implied term of the contract between a bank  and its 
customer that the bank  would  use reasonable skill and care in and about executing 
the customers orders; this was subject to the conflicting duty to execute those orders  
promptly so as to avoid causing financial loss to the customer; but there  would be 
liability if the bank  executed the order knowing it to be dishonestly given, or shut its 
eyes to the obvious fact of the dishonesty, or acted recklessly in failing to make such 
inquiries as an honest and reasonable man would make; and the bank should refrain  
from executing an order if and for so long as it was put on inquiry  by having 
reasonable grounds for believing that the order was an attempt to misappropriate 
funds.1
Lady Hale uses the words subject  to rather than subordinate when referring  to conflicting 
duties on the bank. I dont think its quite right to characterise Quincecare as concluding that 
one duty is always  to be regarded as subordinate to another.  It is, perhaps,  worth quoting  
the actual words of Mr Justice Steyn in the passage  that is often used to summarise the 
ratio, or deciding reasons, of Quincecare  (my emphasis):
The law should not impose too burdensome an obligation on bankers, which  
hampers the effective transacting of banking  business unnecessarily. On the other  
hand, the law should guard against the facilitation of fraud, and exact  a reasonable 
standard of care in order to combat fraud  and to protect bank customers and 
innocent third parties. To hold that a bank is only liable when it has displayed  a lack 
of probity would be much too restrictive an approach. On the other hand, to impose 
liability whenever speculation might suggest dishonesty  would  impose wholly 
impractical standards on bankers. In my judgment the sensible  compromise, 
which strikes a fair balance between competing considerations,  is simply  to 
say that a banker  must refrain from executing an order  if and for as long  as the 
banker is put on inquiry in the sense that he has reasonable grounds 
(although not necessarily proof) for believing that the order is an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds of the [customer]...
So, we too  though  not bound by the law but resolving disputes by what we regard as fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances  are looking  to strike a fair balance between  
competing considerations (which I acknowledged in my provisional decision and again  here). 
In any event, as well as the duties set out in Quincecare, when thinking about whats fair and 
reasonable, banks  and we do also need  to take account of the wider regulatory environment  
for the protection  of consumers, such as the Financial Conduct Authoritys general principles 
on treating customers fairly,  and any relevant  codes  of good conduct  and/or good industry 
practice. HSBC, in its response, has indicated that it is unclear on what basis  my provisional 
decision was reached in this regard. However, my fellow  ombudsmen  and I have referenced 
such matters in many previous decisions, both to HSBC  and published on our website. In 
1 Though not a deciding  factor  in my conclusions here, I note in passing  that, when the 
principles of Quincecare were considered and affirmed by the Supreme Court in Singularis, 
the justices unanimously held that the defendant  investment  bank could and should have 
intervened to protect its (non-consumer) customer from fraudulent activity that ought 
reasonably to have  triggered concerns.
Ref: DRN06748587brief summary, in addition  to the Payment Services Regulations and Quincecare , HSBC and 
we have to be mindful  that (amongst other things):
Regulated banks  must  conduct their business  with due skill, care and diligence  (FCA 
Principle for Businesses 2) and pay due regard to the interests  of [their]  customers 
(Principle 6);
Banks have a longstanding regulatory  duty to take reasonable care to establish and 
maintain effective systems and controls  for compliance with applicable  requirements  and 
standards under the regulatory system and for countering  the risk that the firm might be 
used to further financial crime (SYSC  3.2.6R of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook, which has applied  since  2001);
Regulated banks  are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering 
and countering the financing of terrorism requirements. At the material  time, those 
requirements included  maintaining proportionate  and risk-sensitive  policies and 
procedures to identify,  assess  and manage  money laundering risk, e.g. through 
customer due-diligence measures  and the ongoing monitoring of the business 
relationship (including through  the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the 
course of the relationship); and
As a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider banks should have sought  to 
identify and help prevent transactions   particularly unusual or uncharacteristic ones  
which could involve  fraud or be the result of a scam.
HSBC has said the Banking Protocol was rolled  out in May 2017 (after Mr Cs payment 
instruction); that my provisional  decision commented that it would  have been  fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to havefollowed the Banking Protocol where  appropriate for branch 
transactions like this; and it therefore questions the extent to which I have relied  on the 
Banking Protocol in my provisional decision. Given what I have already said above  though,  
and in my provisional  decision, in my view it makes no difference  to the fair and reasonable 
outcome of this particular  case whether  the Banking  Protocol was in place or not  my view 
remains, for the reasons already explained,  that HSBC  ought  to have intervened further  in 
the payment and this would most likely  have  prevented Mr Cs loss of funds to the scam. 
I dont see any conflict between the outcome proposed in my provisional  decision and the 
relevant caselaw and/or regulatory  codes  (etc). Ultimately,  my view and the courts position  
appear broadly  comparable and seek to achieve a fair and reasonable outcome as between 
the parties. I dont expect  banks to distrust their customers; or act as amateur detectives; or 
unreasonably disrupt  transactions  that appear (and are) legitimate; or ignore the general  
principle that consumers also have responsibility for their decisions and the payments they 
authorise. But I do think there are certain  cases where, on those specific  facts, it would have 
been fair and reasonable for a bank to take action  because the fraud alerts that they are 
supposed to deploy for regulatory and legal  reasons probably could and should have been 
triggered by transactions sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic as to arouse reasonable 
grounds for believing  that the authorised payment is in fact an attempt to misappropriate  
funds. And for the reasons set out in the provisional decision and here, I am persuaded that 
this is just such a case. In short,  it would have been  fair and reasonable for HSBC to have 
intervened and asked discreet questions about the payment before processing it. 
HSBC thinks it most  likely did ask appropriate questions of Mr C before processing  his 
payment instruction. In summary,  it says its staff member cannot recall any clear details and 
Ref: DRN06748588it questions Mr Cs recollection  of events now  its confident that its staff member would not 
have allowed Mr C to proceed with the payment if she had any reasonable grounds for 
suspicion. However, I dont find it surprising that the HSBC staff member  would not 
necessarily remember the customer and payment instruction over any other  day at her 
workplace. And I dont  think Mr C has ever claimed  to have a clear and detailed  recollection 
of everything that happened. However,  given HSBCs response to my provisional decision 
we did ask Mr C to confirm if he had any further  information about the scam not already  
supplied  and we sent this information  to HSBC  on 19 November 2020 for final comment. 
Overall, given all the information,  including HSBCs responses, I have seen nothing  that 
persuades me to doubt what Mr C has said  for the same reasons as explained  in my 
provisional decision I remained  satisfied  that HSBC should have  done  more and that this 
would most  likely have  made a difference. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  there  was a clear and natural opportunity for 
HSBC to have  asked some simple  questions to satisfy itself that Mr C was not being 
scammed. And I explained why I thought more likely than not this would have made a 
difference. 
In response HSBC says the payment method wasnt unusual and that its inappropriate to 
conflate eBay transactions not made  by PayPal with ungenuine  payments. It also says its 
not an expert on purchasing good  through eBay and that it wasnt  its responsibility to explain 
to Mr C how eBay worked. I accept that we should not place undue expectations on the 
knowledge and expertise  of branch staff  although  I believe they should  still have been 
properly trained to identify  and help prevent fraud  and scams. I believe that eBay  was well 
known to banks  at the time  and known by them to be commonly used by scammers. As 
such I dont think its an unreasonable expectation  for HSBC to have  had an awareness of 
the true processes around that website  where it relates to payment instructions. 
HSBC also says that eBay auctions are generally  time-limited, and that applying  conditions 
to a bid (such as an inspection),  or delaying the process, might lose a purchaser the chance 
to buy the goods  so it believes Mr C would  have proceeded with the payment in any event. 
But the information Ive seen doesnt suggest  Mr C was under particular time pressure  and 
even if he was, I remain satisfied, for the reasons Ive already explained  in my provisional 
decision, that he would have taken  heed  of HSBCs warning and most likely would have 
avoided the scam and the loss of his money.
I am therefore not persuaded to depart from my provisional decision.
HSBC maintains that Mr C was negligent and ought to be held responsible for his loss  it 
says it ought to have  been common sense for Mr C to carry out some  basic research before 
making the payment particularly as it was his first time using  eBay; it finds  it alarming that 
Ive taken the view,  it says, that ignorance is a complete defence; and that a simple online  
search would  have enabled  Mr C to consider articles  on eBays website.
In principle, I can accept that Mr C might have  done  more with regard to his purchase. But 
this case is not about  whether the machine  was of satisfactory quality and/or fit for purpose,  
etc; it is about whether  a scammed payment could and should  have been prevented  by a 
bank. Any failing on Mr Cs part was merely part of the background history   it might have 
occasioned the loss indirectly  (insofar as the scam  might possibly have been exposed if hed 
requested a viewing,  depending on how sophisticated the setup was), but it wasnt,  in my 
view, the dominant  or effective cause of the loss (I note in passing that HSBC has also 
Ref: DRN06748589asked whether Mr C pursued his loss with eBay and it is my understanding  that he did, 
without success recouping it). 
HSBC comments that it is alarmed that ignorance  might therefore be a complete defence. I 
think that is overstating the position.  However,  a person does need to reasonably foresee 
the risk of some sort of loss  not necessarily  the precise loss that occurred  in order to be 
held liable  in negligence.  I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable to say that Mr C was 
careless or partly responsible for a loss that he simply did not foresee. HSBC  hasnt 
persuaded me that Mr C recognised the risk or contributed  to his own misfortune through 
careless acts or omissions when making  the payment . There may be cases where a 
proportionate reduction in compensation  is justified for a customers  contributory negligence 
(as was the case in Singularis ), but I am satisfied that this is not one of them.
In my view, it was the failure of HSBC that really  caused the loss  but for its inaction in the 
face of unusual or uncharacteristic activity, the loss probably wouldnt have occurred. Any 
errors by Mr C were effectively superseded by HSBCs errors, breaking the causal chain, so 
I am not persuaded they played a material role in the loss that actually unfolded. I dont think 
it can fairly be said that he, the layperson, was to blame in this scenario  or that his 
compensation should be reduced accordingly. 
Finally, I understand  that HSBC has said the complaint has been with our service for over 
three years and it struggles to accept  it should  pay Mr C £200 for distress and inconvenience  
he has experienced because he has been  facing the very real possibility for some time that 
he would  not get his money back. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that 
HSBC reasonably should have taken action that would  most likely have prevented  Mr C 
losing this money to a scam. I dont think HSBC  paying Mr C £200 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience  caused as a result of not doing what  it ought  to is unreasonable or 
unduly generous  and I remain satisfied this amount is appropriate in all of the 
circumstances of this case.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank  Plc  and I 
direct it to:
Pay Mr C £7,000  within 28 days of receiving his acceptance of my final decision;
Pay Mr C interest on that amount at the prevailing rate of his savings account, from 20 
March 2017 to the date of settlement. If HSBC deducts tax from this interest, it should 
provide Mr C with the appropriate tax deduction certificate;  and
Pay Mr C £200 for distress and inconvenience within 28 days of receiving his 
acceptance of my final decision,  failing which interest will thereafter accrue on that 
sum at the simple  rate of 8% a year until the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2021.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0674858