K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains about the quality of home  improvement works that he paid for using a loan 
provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance).
background
Mr J contracted for home improvements which included the supply and installation  of 
windows and doors. Mr J told us the home  improvement work was meant to take three days.  
Instead it stretched  from November 2017  until September  2018.  
The supplier,  who I shall call E, kept on having to come back to put things right. Mr J said 
this meant  he had to leave his home  for several  weeks and take time off work.  In turn, all of 
this led to Mr J experiencing distress  and inconvenience which then caused arguments at 
home. 
Further, despite the repeat visits from E, Mr J said there are still problems. In particular, 
some of the windows leak. He also told us for several weeks  he could  not open the front 
door. Though that particular  problem  is now resolved. However the front door problem is why 
he moved out for a while. He wanted  compensation for all of this.
Mr J also wanted the guarantee for the work to start from the time the contract was 
completed, rather than from the time the work began. Mr J pointed out that E had behaved in 
an unprofessional manner and its level of customer service had left a lot to be desired. 
However, he found BPF more helpful,  and indicated that without its assistance E probably 
would not have tried to put things right.
Mr J complained to BPF, relying on the rights he said he had here under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
BPF acknowledged that the work had not gone as smoothly as it should  have done. That 
said it had pushed E to sort things out on Mr Js behalf. And it was satisfied  that the work 
had now been  completed to a professional standard. It wasnt prepared  to offer anything  
further.
Our investigator looked into Mr Js complaint. He was satisfied that the work had now all 
been properly  done. However, he recognised  the disruption Mr J likely experienced as a 
result of the work going  so wrong. He told BPF to pay Mr J £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience it is likely he experienced when he moved out while  some  of the remedial 
work was being  done.
BPF accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr J did not. In short, he thought we 
had let the supplier  off lightly.  He suggested we were letting  E off with a slap on the wrist.  
Plus he reiterated that Es behaviour had been unprofessional 
He talked of the impact  of the work on him and on his family.  He underlined again how long it 
had taken to sort this situation out. 
Finally, he also mentioned again that he wanted the start date of the guarantee to be 
changed.
Mr J asked that an ombudsman review his complaint. 
Ref: DRN09499322my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have finished  my review  of Mr Js complaint. I think the solution which  BPF has already 
agreed to is fair and reasonable.  It follows I dont agree that I have any proper basis  to ask it 
to do anything more.  Please  let me explain why I have  come to this decision.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
Section 75. Rather, when I think about what is a fair way to resolve Mr Js complaint, Ive 
taken Section 75 into account. This is because Section 75 is relevant law. But that doesnt 
mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mr J 
pursued a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation. We are not a court and we have 
different rules from the court  system.
It seems  that the parties do agree that some  of the work was under par. But they also seem  
to agree that the work  has now been  done  to a satisfactory standard, albeit  it took a while  to 
get there.  The only remaining issues seem to be whether  £500  goes far enough  to 
compensate Mr J and his family for the distress and inconvenience caused by the fact that 
the work  was not done correctly at first.
I cant ask BPF to compensate Mr Js family  for distress and inconvenience.  I dont have the 
power to do this. I can only look at the impact of the complaint on him, because only he has 
the standing to bring a complaint to us. Im sorry if that disappoints Mr J. And I am also sorry 
that we did not make  this point to him more clearly  and much sooner.
Further, most of Mr Js dissatisfaction stems  from the behaviour of E. E is a separate  
company from BPF. I cant  make an award  against  BPF for the customer service provided  by 
E. Firstly because  E is a not a party to this complaint. Moreover, secondly, Section 75 does 
not cover  customer service - rather it only provides  a remedy for misrepresentation and or 
breach of contract.  So it wouldnt be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
give a remedy for something that is not provided  for under relevant law.
I can well understand  that Mr J wants BPF and E to take on board what happened to him. 
Indeed, I think  he wants to go further and wants them, or E at least; severely reprimanded, it 
seems to me. However, while Ive noted  what  Mr J has said about Es failings, it is not for me 
to fine financial businesses, and the awards  I make arent intended  to be a punishment.  And 
in any event, as I have already explained, I have no power to make  any award against E in 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN09499323That said I dont underestimate  the disruption,  inconvenience and sheer frustration  Mr J 
experienced as this building work  slowly progressed. His submissions about this paint their 
own picture and the fact that he is upset jumps  off the page. It is telling that things went so 
wrong that at one point he had to move  out. But I think  £500  is a fair award in the 
circumstances. 
Mr J invites me to look at how much he paid for the work and up the amount of the award. 
He also suggests  this award is not enough because  it is a drop in the ocean  to a company 
the size of BPF. That may be so, but the size of the contract or the turnover of BPF is not the 
yardstick I need to be using when  thinking  about what is a fair award. What I have to look at 
is what is the business responsible for putting  right. And what was the likely  impact on him.
Finally, I cant  tell BPF to vary the guarantee. That is something only E can do. This is 
because it is E not BPF that provides  it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays  Partner 
Finance) must pay Mr J £500 for distress and inconvenience, as it has already agreed to do.
BPF must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on Mr J accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0949932