K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complain  Countrywide Principal Services Limited mis-sold them an insurance  
policy.
background
Countrywide sold a number of insurance  policies to Mr and Mrs Z when they took out a 
mortgage in 2011.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs Z reviewed all of the insurances they were paying for and complained to 
Countrywide about the sale of one of these  policies. Countrywide sent Mr and Mrs Z a final 
response letter to say theyd been  sold an optional mortgage care  policy  which met their 
requirements at the time.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs Z brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said she didnt think  the policy had been  
mis-sold. Mr and Mrs Z didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding 
Mr and Mrs Zs complaint and Ill explain why. 
Because Countrywide recommended  this policy to Mr and Mrs Z, it needed to give them 
information about the policy that was clear,  fair and not misleading and it also needed  to 
ensure the policy  was suitable for their needs. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Zs mortgage  illustration  as well as product  illustrations  for 
the insurance policies that were recommended to them.  
The mortgage illustration  says Mr and Mrs Z are not required to buy any insurance  through  
either the lender or Countrywide. The document goes on to say its a condition  of the 
mortgage that Mr and Mrs Z take out buildings insurance but, again, says this doesnt need 
to be taken out through either the lender or Countrywide.
The product  illustration for the mortgage  care policy sets out the monthly premium and the 
level of cover payable  and explains the policy can pay out for up to 12 months per claim, to 
cover mortgage repayments and other  related expenses, if the policyholder becomes 
involuntarily unemployed. There  are a number of different product illustrations, each giving 
details about different  policies. 
I can appreciate there may have been many documents for Mr and Mrs Z to read and sign at 
the time  but I think the paperwork Ive seen  clearly sets out what mortgage care  covered, 
that it wasnt compulsory  and that it was a separate policy  to the other  policies which Mr and 
Mrs Z bought. 
Mr and Mrs Z say it was suggested during the meeting  that taking the insurance would help 
their mortgage application.  But I dont have  any evidence,  beyond what Mr and Mrs Z have 
Ref: DRN07374492told us, that they were  given false information  or put under  any unfair pressure  to buy the 
policy. 
The mortgage planner completed  by Countrywides advisor shows Mr and Mrs Z were asked 
how important it was to them  to ensure their mortgage repayments were met if they became 
unemployed. I understand Mr and Mrs Z both still work at the same place and feel there  is 
no risk of them losing their jobs. But the purpose  of insurance is to cover  unexpected events 
and just because  Mr and Mrs Z havent ever needed to claim under the policy doesnt 
automatically mean it was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs Z had the benefit of cover while the policy 
was in force and, based on the details contained  in the mortgage  planner, I think the policy 
seems affordable and was suitable  for them. 
Ive taken into account all of the other comments Mr and Mrs Z have made but, overall,  I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to conclude that Countrywide mis-sold this policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Zs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0737449