K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about the handling  of a claim under his plumbing and drainage 
insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
Mr A was advised in 2018 that some  water pipes needed replacing. Mr A says the cost of 
that work  should  have been  covered under his policy  with British Gas,  but it refused the 
claim. British  Gas says the pipe concerned is made of steel and the policy  excludes  the 
replacement of steel pipes, except if they are the water supply pipe from the boundary  of the 
property to the home. Mr A complained to us. 
One of our adjudicators considered the matter,  but didnt find in Mr As favour. Mr A didnt  
agree so the case has been referred to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A did want  to speak to an ombudsman before a decision was made on his case. One of 
my colleagues did speak to him but then unfortunately couldnt make  the actual decision due 
to absence. I have  the benefit of a recording of that call so I can confirm I have heard Mr As 
comments on the case. I can also confirm my colleague  had made no decision on the case 
before they became absent. 
I wont be upholding the complaint, Ill explain why. 
Mr As policy  contains a very clear exclusion for steel or iron pipes, they arent covered apart 
from a few exceptions.  Mr A considers  that the pipes in question come  within  the exception 
covering Your water  supply pipe from the boundary of your property to your home. I have to 
say I dont agree. 
Mr A seems  to interpret this exception as meaning the pipes inside his home  are covered, I 
dont think that is a reasonable interpretation  of the policy wording. If an insurer wished to 
cover steel  pipes within the home they wouldnt need to say from the boundary to your 
home, they would just need to say from your boundary. It seems clear enough that once 
such pipes enter your home they arent covered. And a reasonable definition of that would 
be once such pipes  pass the external wall of your property. Here the pipes in question  are 
inside Mr As flat, so I think they arent  covered. 
Mr A has made the point  that why would he buy such insurance when it appears  not to cover 
anything. However  he also says he didnt  know his pipes were steel. Most pipes in claims I 
have seen are copper  or plastic, so would be covered. If all Mr As pipes are steel then I 
agree this might not be appropriate cover  for him, but I cant blame  British  Gas for that, it 
would have been Mr As responsibility to have some  knowledge  of the construction  of his 
property. Equally the policy  covers other  things,  so I dont agree it is not worth  having. 
I do note that British Gas has paid some compensation  for the policy not being clear and that 
is up to them, but Im not sure I share their view. Certainly as my colleague discussed in the 
Ref: DRN06072652call with Mr A, British  Gas confusion over exactly why they werent paying his claim is 
regrettable, but doesnt  mean that the claim succeeds irrespective of the policy wording. 
Finally I note Mr As contention that he is responsible for the pipes  and they are not 
communal, but I dont think that makes  any difference. I agree he is responsible  for these 
pipes, but as they are steel and inside his property they are excluded from cover. 
my final decision
I make  no award against British Gas Insurance Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0607265