K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr J bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Js complaint and Ive explained why below.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there are no documents  available  
from the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither party  has been able to 
provide any documentation as these  events happened over 22 years  ago. 
But Lloyds has been able to provide a sample  of the sort of application form it says Mr J 
would have completed to get the credit. I think its most likely that this is the sort of form Mr J 
would have had to complete to get the credit card. On this application  I can see that to get 
the PPI Mr J had to tick a box. So I think Mr J ought to have understood this was something 
he could choose.  
So having  considered all the submissions  I have received in this case, I think its more  likely  
that Lloyds wouldve made Mr J aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it, 
even though he may not remember that now, many years later.
Mr J told us he applied for the credit  card in branch. Both parties think  Lloyds recommended  
the PPI to Mr J. This meant Lloyds needed  to take reasonable  steps  to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr J. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, I think the 
recommendation was right for him. I explain why below.
Mr J was eligible for the policy and he was not affected by any of the exclusions from or 
limits to the PPI policy. And I think Mr J had a need for the policy.  Mr J told us he had no sick 
pay or any other means  he could have relied  on if things went wrong.  The PPI could have 
paid 10% of Mr Js monthly  repayment  for up to 12 months in the event he became too 
unwell to work, or if he lost his job. So, I think the policy would have been  useful to Mr J. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar  policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable (Mr J afforded  the policy  for some time).  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr J about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But its most likely that he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this 
Ref: DRN02008262type of cover. And for the same reasons I dont think the policy  was unsuitable  for Mr J, I 
dont think better information  would have  put him off taking out the cover.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0200826