K821x#15Complaint
Mr C says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.           
Background
This complaint is about three payday  loans and two high-cost short-term credit instalment  
loans that Mr Lender provided  to Mr C. Mr Cs first loan was provided  in April 2013 and his 
last loan in June 2015.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Cs complaint. Mr Lender disagreed and the complaint 
was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including the key rules,  guidance and good  industry  
practice - on our website.  
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing in mind Mr Lenders response to our adjudicators  assessment, I think that it is 
important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender  was required to establish  whether Mr C 
could sustainably repay her loans   not just whether  the loan payments  were  affordable  on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Ref: DRN04087372Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the various  rules and regulations in place describe sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.  Having done  so, I think Mr Lender 
should reasonably have  seen that Mr C was unlikely to have been able to make his 
payments in a sustainable manner when loan 1 was rolled over for a fourth  time.  
I say this because  Mr Lender was required to exercise  forbearance in the event Mr C was 
struggling to repay what he owed.  And, in my view, Mr C not repaying this loan within three 
months, even though  he was supposed to have done so in one, was in itself an indication 
that he was more likely than not finding it difficult to repay this loan, rather than it being  the 
case that he was looking for the flexibility afforded by deferring  repayment.
In these circumstances, I think that Mr Lender ought  fairly  and reasonably  to have  exercised 
forbearance and offered  Mr C the opportunity to have repaid what  he owed in a sustainable  
manner. I dont think rolling over the loan a further four times and charging high amounts of 
additional interest for the privilege of allowing Mr C to delay dealing with this unsustainable 
debt was treating  him fairly and reasonably or exercising forbearance. As this is the case, I 
find that Mr Lender unfairly and unreasonably rolled-over loan 1 from the fourth  rollover  
onwards. 
I've seen Mr Lender  has said that our adjudicator failed to take into account  the 55 day break  
between loan 1 being repaid and loan 2 being  provided. But I think that Mr Lender itself is 
overlooking the fact that this happened after it had taken Mr C six months to eventually  settle  
a loan that he was supposed  to settle in one month.  In my view, this ought to have alerted 
Mr Lender to the fact that Mr C may well have been in a precarious financial position. And 
this is further supported  by the deferrals  on loan two as well. In these circumstances, I dont 
think that loans  2 to 5 should have been  provided to Mr C either.
I think that Mr C lost out because Mr Lender continued rolling over loan one and then 
continued to provide further loans because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and deferrals  was likely to have had negative  implications on   
Mr Cs ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these 
high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  the deferrals from the fourth  one on loan 1 and loans 2 
to 5 and Mr Lender should  put things right.
Putting things  right  what  Mr Lender needs  to do
Ref: DRN04087373refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid as a result of the fourth  to seventh rollovers 
on loan 1 and all interest and charges paid on loans 2 to 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 2 from Mr Cs credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 3 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 3 to 5 should be removed from     
Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. PDL Finance  Limited  
(trading as Mr Lender)  should pay Mr C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0408737