K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains about the way Zurich Insurance PLC has handled  her buildings insurance 
claim after water damage to her home.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 6 February 2019  to the parties in this case  and Ive 
attached a copy of that decision below.
The crux of the complaint concerned what should  be included as insured damage and how 
should the damage be put right.  Mrs A wanted  a cash payment but wasnt  happy with the 
amount Zurich had offered.
I said the insurance contract didnt give Mrs A the right to choose how the claim is settled. 
Zurich was willing to carry out the repairs, and if it does Mrs A has no reason to be 
concerned about  what  the repairs would cost as Zurich would cover all. And if Mrs A wished 
to have Zurich  carry  out the repairs then Zurich would do this. But at the point of my 
provisional decision Mrs A hadnt  been  willing and so I said Zurich only needed to pay the 
amount it would cost Zurich to carry out the repairs.
My provisional decision was to uphold the complaint and require Zurich Insurance  PLC to do 
the following:
Include the kitchen as part of the insurance claim
Pay Mrs A £11,652.72  adding simple  interest  at 8% per year from the date of claim to 
the date payment is issued. 
Provide alternative  accommodation for the duration of the repairs or a cash sum 
equivalent. This amount should  be based on suitable accommodation in line with the 
policy for Mrs A.
Reimburse the VAT element of repairs Mrs A has carried out in relation to the 
itemised damage on receipt of evidence that VAT was paid, the amount and the VAT 
registered number  of the company  providing  the repairs. 
replies 
Zurich replied to say that it had sent my decision to the loss adjuster for further comment  and 
we gave Zurich  until 1 March to provide any further  comments. At the time of this final 
decision I havent seen  any further  reply from Zurich.
Mrs A replied and Ive considered the entirety of its contents. One thing I will comment  on 
concerns the estimates I said Mrs A provided which estimated the cost the repairs from 
around £23,000 to £68,500 (exc.  VAT). I am aware that these estimates  are from 
businesses, rather than her personally,  and Mrs A has confirmed  that the highest estimate I 
detailed was actually  £6,850 and shed made  a typographical error. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN04406462Ill address the invoice  issue  first and have reconsidered the contents  of that estimate.  It 
clearly states a cost of £68,500 +VAT. And it details work to include the bathroom,  kitchen 
(including replacement  of the kitchen),  bedroom  1 and 2, main  entrance  area and flooring. If 
this estimate should read £6,850 as Mrs A states,  then it seems  to me that the amount 
offered by Zurich (£11,652.72 exc. VAT) will enable  Mrs A to have the repairs carried  out 
with the company quoting £6,850.
Having looked  at everything very carefully  I remain persuaded by the detail and costings 
provided by Zurich. Where Zurich  benefits from discounts Im satisfied it is fair Zurich only 
pays the amount  it would cost it to carry out the repairs. As I said in my provisional decision 
If Mrs A wishes to have Zurich carry out the repairs then Zurich will do this. But to date, and 
as far as I can see from her reply, she wants a cash payment so she can use her own 
contractors. But Im not persuaded to reach a different  outcome.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Zurich Insurance PLC to do the following:
Include the kitchen as part of the insurance claim.
Pay Mrs A £11,652.72  adding simple  interest  at 8% per year from the date of claim to 
the date payment is issued.
oHM Revenue & Customs  requires Zurich Insurance  PLC to take off tax from 
this interest. Zurich Insurance PLC must  give Mrs A a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Provide alternative  accommodation for the duration of the repairs or a cash sum 
equivalent based on the estimated  period of repairs. This amount should be based  
on suitable accommodation in line with the policy for Mrs A.
Reimburse the VAT element of repairs Mrs A has carried out in relation to the 
itemised damage on receipt of evidence that VAT was paid, to include  the amount 
and the VAT registered number of the company providing the repairs.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN04406463provisional decision dated 6 February  2018
complaint
Mrs A complains about the way Zurich Insurance PLC has handled  her buildings insurance 
claim after water damage to her home.
background
Around August  2016 Mrs A began to notice issues in her property with a foul smell and 
mould developing. This became quite extensive  in a number of rooms  and Mrs A contacted 
a local authority and later Zurich. In short, a water  leak had developed in a property above  
Mrs As and this was thought to be the cause of the damage.
Mrs A began a claim with Zurich and it appointed  a loss adjuster to visit her property. An 
inspection took place to view the damage  reported and establish if it was covered by the 
insurance policy. The loss adjusters  initial view was that some damage was covered  but 
other parts were not. An initial offer was made to cover repairs  to a bathroom, two 
bedrooms, and a hallway and provide alternative  accommodation while the repairs  were  
carried out. Mrs A disagreed with this because she said her kitchen was also damaged and 
this should be covered  by the policy too.
The complaint came to us and one of our investigators looked  into the matter. He thought  
the evidence showed it was more  likely  than not that the kitchen was damaged  by the water  
leak too. And so he said Zurich should cover the kitchen as part of the insurance claim. 
Mrs A provided a report supporting her case that the kitchen should be covered  and Zurich  
accepted that it would include  this as part of the insurance claim. And it would send a 
surveyor to scope out the works required.
Initially Mrs A accepted this resolution  but then withdrew her acceptance. Among other 
things she wasnt happy with the company that was going to survey her property. Our 
investigator explained that a fair and reasonable outcome for the dispute Mrs A had brought 
to us was that;
Zurich should  include the kitchen as part of the insured  damage,  and 
any cash offer settlement would be based  on what  Zurich  would pay to carry out the 
repair work, or 
Zurich would instruct its own contractors  to carry out the repair work.
Mrs A didnt agree to have Zurichs contractors carry out the repairs and she wanted  a cash  
settlement based  on what she would have  to pay to have the damage fixed.  Zurich  provided 
a breakdown of its costing  against  the schedule of works required, including  the kitchen. This 
came to £11,502.72 but Mrs A didnt think this was a fair amount.
The investigator carried out further investigations  into the amount that Zurich said it would  
cost it to carry out the repairs.  Mrs A had provided  information in which she said Zurich had 
not accounted for some items and queried  the cost basis Zurich relied on. Zurich considered 
Mrs As points  and had the cost basis reviewed concluding that a further £150 had to be 
added.
Ref: DRN04406464Our investigators view was that the reports and cost basis  sent on behalf of Zurich 
supported the cash offer of £11,502.72  plus an additional £150. In all the circumstances he 
said this was a fair outcome.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
It is common practice for insurance  companies to investigate  claims that policyholders make.  
That is what  Zurich did with Mrs As claim and sent a loss adjuster  to inspect the claimed  
damage to establish  its extent and whether the policy covered it. The majority of the damage 
was recommended as being covered but not all of it. That was on the basis of the inspectors  
observations about some  of the damage  (the kitchen), which  in his opinion was too remote  in 
proximity from the leak to have suffered the damage  claimed.  His view was that this was 
more likely to be a maintenance issue or wear and tear and the policy  didnt cover  it. 
Im satisfied this view was reached based on observations during a visit to Mrs As property 
and one the expert was entitled to reach.  It follows, in my view, that Zurich was entitled  to 
make its final decision  taking that into account.  That being said the investigator  interpreted 
the report in a slightly different way and this led to his view that the kitchen should be 
covered. A report was submitted  that supported Mrs As view on this and Zurich  agreed to 
include the kitchen  damage as part of the overall  works to be carried  out under the policy. 
So, it has been agreed that the kitchen should be part of the insurance  claim and Im 
satisfied this is a fair and reasonable  outcome.  Zurich has agreed to provide alternative  
accommodation for the duration of repairs and Im satisfied thats fair too. But if Mrs A 
wishes to arrange  her own then Zurich should  offer a reasonable amount.  To that end, in 
replying to this decision  Zurich should  set out what financial offer it would make  in lieu of 
providing accommodation. This should  set out the likely  duration,  the daily or weekly rate 
and the type of accommodation the rate is based on.
The overall time in dealing  with the matter  was delayed  because of the dispute over the 
damage and also because the leak had to be fixed by a third party.  This was to the largest 
extent something that neither Mrs A nor Zurich could control. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint is that the 
kitchen is part of the insurance claim  together with alternative accommodation provided for 
the duration of repairs. 
This then leaves the issue of the cash settlement. Mrs A wants  the amount that she says she 
will have to pay to get the damage  repaired. Like all insurers Zurich secures beneficial  
discounts from its suppliers and contractors. A prudent consumer wouldnt pay more than 
they could achieve through discounts  and Im satisfied its fair that Zurich has offered to 
either carry out the repairs,  or in the alternative pay Mrs A an amount that it would pay to its 
own contractors. And under the policy Zurich, as insurer, is entitled to decide  how to settle a 
claim, which is common practice across the buildings insurance  market.
Zurich has provided  a cost breakdown of the schedule of works  required and this totals 
£11,652.72. As thats what Zurich would  pay its contractors  I dont  think  it would be fair in the 
circumstances of this case to require it to pay more.  The issue isnt Zurich not being 
prepared to carry out the repairs, rather Mrs A preferring cash  instead. In my experience it is 
Ref: DRN04406465usual for an insurers  estimate to be exclusive of VAT, and indeed I havent  seen anything to 
the contrary in this case. So when  Mrs A pays for work to be carried  out and there is VAT 
charged, and the company is VAT registered  then she can provide  that evidence  to Zurich 
for reimbursement of the VAT element.
I have considered the evidence from Mrs A in which she provided estimates of the repairs 
from around £23,000 to £68,500 (exc VAT). They are for the large part not particularly 
detailed, and certainly not to the itemised  extent of Zurichs contractor. Im not persuaded 
that these reports  undermine Zurichs, which as previously mentioned  includes beneficial  
discounts.
The insurance contract does not give Mrs A the right to choose how the claim is settled. 
Zurich has been  willing to carry out the repairs, and if it does Mrs A has no reason to be 
concerned at what the repairs  cost. If Mrs A wishes to have Zurich carry out the repairs  then 
Zurich will do this. But to date she hasnt  been  willing and so Zurich  only needs to pay the 
amount it would cost Zurich to repair.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  this complaint and require  Zurich  Insurance  PLC to 
do the following:
Include the kitchen as part of the insurance claim
Pay Mrs A £11,652.72  adding simple  interest  at 8% per year from the date of claim to 
the date payment is issued. 
Provide alternative  accommodation for the duration of the repairs or a cash sum 
equivalent. This amount should  be based on suitable accommodation in line with the 
policy for Mrs A.
Reimburse the VAT element of repairs Mrs A has carried out in relation to the 
itemised damage on receipt of evidence that VAT was paid, the amount and the VAT 
registered number  of the company  providing  the repairs. 
 
Ref: DRN0440646