K821x#15complaint
Mr W complained  about  how Ageas Insurance Limited handled and settled  his home 
insurance claim.
The history  of the claim and complaint is quite detailed so Ive only outlined  a summary of 
whats happened below.  Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the main points. I havent 
commented on every point or argument  Mr W or Ageas has made.
At different times throughout the claim and complaint Mrs W has been dealing  with matters. 
To avoid  confusion, except where  otherwise stated, Ive just referred to Mr W.
background
Mr W claimed for damage  caused  to his home by a leak from behind  a toilet. Ageas 
appointed various representatives to handle the claim and repairs  on its behalf1. From an 
early stage Mr W made Ageas  aware of various health problems and the difficulty  of living  in 
the house with the damage.
Ageas inspected the damage and confirmed  the claim was valid.  It told Mr W hed need  to fix 
the leak as it wasnt  covered  by the policy, but it confirmed it would cover  the cost of 
repairing the damage caused  by the water  escaping through the leak.  The leak was fixed on 
a temporary basis initially,  and Ageas installed a temporary floor, sink and toilet. Ageas 
agreed that the house couldnt be lived in while the damage was being repaired and it 
agreed to cover the cost of alternative  accommodation so that Mr W and his family could live 
elsewhere during  this time.
Ageas felt the leak wasnt just from the toilet as originally thought and it said further 
investigation was necessary in order to ascertain the full extent of the damage and the 
repairs needed. But it said that in order to do that some contents needed to be put into 
storage. Mr W told Ageas  that he didnt want anything removed from the house so he would 
box them  up and store them. He also felt Ageas hadnt fully inspected areas that were  
accessible, and he wanted someone with specialist knowledge of the joists  to inspect them.
For the alternative accommodation part of the claim, Ageas found various potential places 
for Mr W to live but for a variety of reasons (eg location, access,  pets) Mr W felt none  were 
suitable. The idea of whether a caravan would be suitable was discussed, but no agreement  
between Ageas and Mr W could be reached on the appropriate type of caravan. Mr W told 
Ageas that he couldnt make a decision on suitable alternative places to live until he knew 
the extent of the damage and repairs.
As there was effectively  an impasse  over the repairs and the alternative accommodation, 
Ageas decided to settle the claim on a cash basis. That meant  it would pay Mr W the amount 
needed to get the repairs  done and for alternative  accommodation. Ageass  offer was:
£5,632.72  for the repairs (based on what had been inspected up to that point)
£2,700 for alternative accommodation
£1,596.44  for replacement flooring
1 As different representatives were involved, to avoid  confusion with naming them  all I will simply  refer 
to them collectively as Ageas
Ref: DRN06664202Mr W told Ageas that he couldnt  consider the settlement until the full extent of the damage 
had been determined. Ageas said that in order to move the claim forward it would arrange a 
further visit to confirm if the proposed  works were accurate.  It nevertheless paid Mr W the 
£2,700 that had been offered for the alternative  accommodation.
Whilst this was happening Mr W discovered  that waste water was leaking  from the 
temporary toilet. He felt this was caused by the temporary works carried  out by Ageass 
contractors.
A further  inspection took place and Ageas amended the scope of the repairs needed. But a 
dispute then arose about how the inspection was done. And Mr W still questioned  the 
proposed works. Further discussions  also took place about alternative accommodation 
again including a caravan  on site.
Ageas eventually made a final cash offer to Mr W to settle the claim:
£10,244 for the repairs (based  on an estimate provided by Mr Ws contractor)
£3,600 for somewhere for Mr W to live during the repairs (based on a six month rental at 
£600 per month)  this was in addition to the £2,700 already paid
£840 for kennel and cattery costs
£1,596.44  for the flooring
Ageas recognised there had been  delays getting  to this point; but it felt this was due to 
Mr Ws reluctance to accept its position and decisions. It felt the claim could have been 
settled about six months  earlier,  which in turn would  have  prevented  the problems Mr W 
suffered while  continuing  to live in the house.
Ageas later confirmed to Mr W that no additional drying or sanitisation was needed.  It added  
that Mr Ws contractor  would  contact  it if additional  works were discovered during the repair.  
And it would pay the reasonable cost of packing the contents which  need  to be removed and 
moving them to other parts of the house to allow the repairs.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which outlined why I felt the complaint should be partially 
upheld. I focussed  on what  I considered  to be the three main issues of Mr Ws complaint  
the claim settlement  for the damage caused, the claim settlement for alternative 
accommodation, and Ageass overall  handling  of the claim.
My provisional decision was along the following lines:
the policy
This policy covered  damage caused  by water leaking from a toilet; it gave Ageas the 
right to choose how to settle  a claim  it could  either repair  the damage, replace the 
damaged item, rebuild  the damaged item, or make  a cash payment.
The policy also covered the costs Mr W might incur living  elsewhere (ie alternative 
accommodation) if his home couldnt be lived in because damage covered by the policy 
made the home uninhabitable; this cover included the cost of rehousing any pets.
Ref: DRN06664203damage claim
As with any insurance claim, it was for Mr W in the first instance to show that damage 
was caused to his property by an insured event (eg water leaking from a toilet)  and how 
much it costs to put right.  That meant it was for Mr W to get reports, quotes etc in order  
to ascertain the extent of the damage. It was only once Mr W overcame  that hurdle that 
Ageas became liable   up to that point it didnt have  to do anything.
However, for this type of claim Ageas often appointed  experts  such  as a loss adjuster 
or approved contractors   to inspect the damage, work  out what  caused it and work out 
what needs to be done to fix it.
Once it was established that Ageas was liable for the claim it didnt automatically follow 
that Ageas became responsible for repairing any damage. As per the terms of the policy,  
it was entitled  to pay Mr W whatever  the repairs would cost. Ageas would nevertheless 
often arrange  the repairs on Mr Ws behalf  through its approved  repair network.
I thought Ageas treated Mr W fairly by deciding to settle the claim on a cash  basis. This 
was for two main  reasons:
othere was reference to Mr W not trusting  Ageass  repairers and to wanting  his 
own contractor to do the work; and
oAgeass attempts to do the repairs were in the main held up because  Mr W 
disputed what work  was needed.
Mr W told us his distrust of Ageass representatives was in part due to what  he felt was 
them not acting  independently. He referred, for example, to a situation where a surveyor  
turned up to assess/review the proposed works and agreeing with what Mr W had said;  
but the repairer then turned up  who the surveyor seemed to know   and the surveyor  
changed his opinion. The loss adjuster then later told Mr W the surveyor agreed with the 
original proposed works.
I felt it was reasonable that Mr W should be able to have the repairs  done by a contractor 
of his choice if thats what he wanted.  The policy made an allowance  for that  it said 
Ageas might offer to repair damage through one of its suppliers, but if Mr W preferred to 
use his own supplier  he could.  But this option usually resulted in a cash settlement being 
made  because Ageas wouldnt take ownership  of a repair carried out by a contractor 
not on its approved  list. Ageas would agree the work needed and the costs,  and it would 
pay for the repair  either to the repairer directly  or to Mr W.
Mr W didnt  agree with Ageass recommendations because local professionals hed 
sought advice  from (including the local council)  expressed concerns if there  were  
structural alterations and said the proposed works were  unnecessarily complicated. 
Mr W was also concerned that a full inspection of the damage hadnt been done.
I felt it was reasonable that Mr W be able to dispute the extent of the repairs needed. 
However, it ultimately remained his responsibility to establish  his claim and I hadnt seen 
anything that Mr W provided  to Ageas which showed that the initial works it proposed 
were materially  insufficient based  on the inspections that had been carried out.
It was true that Ageas didnt initially fully inspect the extent of the damage as it felt further 
access was needed to do a fuller inspection. But as far as I could tell, Ageas never 
Ref: DRN06664204disputed that the initial  inspection and schedule of works was incomplete or that further 
works might be needed. But its attempts to inspect this damage were in the main 
frustrated by a dispute  over whether  or not contents  needed to be moved in order for 
further access to be gained.
A further  investigation  was eventually carried out, although Mr W disputed how thorough  
it was as the person only used their mobile phone. I was aware that the person who was 
due to attend (with proper equipment) had called in sick that day. Mr W arranged for 
someone else to do the inspection,  which he said made successful and appropriate 
repairs possible. It seemed to me that this inspection was necessary and that it led to 
satisfactory repairs and a conclusion of the claim. So I felt it was fair in this case  for 
Ageas reimburse  Mr W for the cost of the inspection (which I understood to be £180) if it 
hadnt done so already.
Ageass final offer to settle the repair part of the claim was £10,244. Ageas said this was 
based on an estimate provided by Mr Ws contractor  for the repair  work needed. It also 
said if the contractor  found further work  that was needed it would consider the matter 
further. I hadnt seen  anything  which showed that the amount offered was insufficient to 
repair the damage caused by the leak from the toilet. So I was satisfied based on what 
Id seen that it was fair.
alternative accommodation claim
Ageas  didnt think the original damage  caused  by the leak rendered  the property 
uninhabitable. I understood  this was because Mr W continued to have the use of 
bathroom, toilet and kitchen facilities. Mr W nevertheless made Ageas aware  of how 
inconvenient it was to continue using  the downstairs toilet, so Ageas arranged  for a 
temporary floor and toilet to be fitted in the upstairs bathroom. This was fitted  about  two 
weeks after the claim was lodged. A temporary  basin was fitted  about  seven weeks  later. 
Based on what I had seen, I felt Ageass  actions  were  fair.
Ageas  recognised that alternative  accommodation would be needed once the repairs  
started. So it started the process  of finding somewhere for Mr W to live. Various options  
were found and discussed, but they were rejected  as being unsuitable. Mr W also 
recognised that alternative accommodation  would  be needed, but he didnt feel able to 
make a decision on this until he knew the extent of the repair  work  needed.
After a few months Mr Ws broker contacted Ageas to say that Mr W was unhappy with 
the options offered. Ageas said it could cash settle this part of the claim rather than 
continue looking for somewhere  for Mr W to live. The payment of £2,700  was later paid 
to Mr W.
At a later point  Ageas was told that Mrs W had been in hospital as the mould  and spores 
had made her breathing conditions worse. Ageas said it couldnt move the claim forward 
until a last visit had taken place to assess the damage. It nevertheless told Mr W to stay 
in a hotel/B&B for the weekend and it would reassess the situation on the Monday. On 
the Monday Ageas told Mr W to stay in the hotel/B&B for an extra  two days.  Ageas 
offered to pay for this.
Some discussions then took place regarding a caravan being used on site as all the 
other suggestions had been  rejected. But disputes  then arose about the type and size of 
caravan  by this time Mr W felt the only realistic solution was a 6-berth  static  caravan 
Ref: DRN06664205with air conditioning in the front garden  as touring caravan was unsuitable; but Ageas 
wasnt prepared to pay for this as it felt the cost was too high given the length of time 
Mr W needed to be out of the home  and the other  accommodation that had been offered.
Ultimately  Ageas  felt it wasnt going  to be able to find somewhere that Mr W would deem 
acceptable so it made  a further payment to him for £3,600.  This was based on houses in 
the area costing  about £600 per month  to rent (with the minimum rental  usually being  six 
months). Mr W could then use the money  as he saw best. Ageas also paid £840 to cover 
the costs if Mr W needed to temporarily put his pets in a kennel/cattery.
So the total amount paid to Mr W for alternative accommodation was £7,140.
There were  two main issues that I needed  to consider  whether it was fair for Ageas to 
settle this part of the claim by making cash payments  directly  to Mr W; and whether the 
cash payment was fair.
Ageas  wasnt required  under the terms of the policy to find alternative accommodation 
for Mr W  its liability was simply  to pay for it. So technically,  it was for Mr W to find 
somewhere suitable to live, and Ageas would pay for it (subject  to any policy limitations).
However, Ageas tried to help Mr W find alternative accommodation and various offers  
were made back and forth but ultimately  no agreement was reached.  Mr W had 
understandable reasons why the various accommodation offers  were unsuitable, and it 
was understandable  for him to wait until the full extent of repairs  was known before 
making a decision  (as something might be acceptable for two weeks  but might not be for 
two months). Its very rare though  that an alternative property is going to be perfect  and 
tick all the boxes   there are usually compromises that need to be made.  There  were 
also occasions where I thought Mr W appeared to change  his mind  about what was 
acceptable eg in a letter to Ageas he said a touring  caravan wasnt viable, but a few 
weeks later he told us that a touring caravan was acceptable.
Overall, I felt Ageas acted fairly  and reasonably  in initially making Mr Ws home more 
liveable. And I felt it generally  acted  fairly  and reasonably in trying  to find alternative  
accommodation for when the repairs were being  done. But as agreement couldnt  be 
reached, I thought it was reasonable  and in line with the cover provided by the policy  
for Ageas to have settled this part of the claim by paying Mr W directly.
Mr W told us the settlement offer didnt recognise the need  for a deposit to be paid for a 
rental property or removal costs  into and out of the property. I didnt think that made a 
difference because  no policy  would cover  the deposit, and if Mr W temporarily moved 
into a furnished property it was unlikely that any contents would need to be removed 
from his property.
In any event, as the repair work had been  completed I didnt think  it mattered now how 
Ageas calculated its settlement or what type of property it based it on. That was because  
in terms of what a fair settlement is, I saw it coming down to a comparison between what  
Mr W received  from Ageas in settlement of this part of the claim and what he actually 
spent on alternative accommodation.  If he spent less than £7,140 on alternative 
accommodation (including for the nights Ageas authorised that he spend in a hotel/B&B), 
then Ageass settlement would be fair as he would have  received more  from Ageas than 
what he actually spent. If on the other hand Mr W spent more than £7,140 there might be 
Ref: DRN06664206grounds for me to conclude that the offer was unfair.  But that would depend  on what the 
money was spent on and how long for.
I didnt know how much Mr W spent on alternative accommodation. I knew he had 
incurred some costs as there was reference  to around £1,600 being spent at one point 
prior to repairs starting. But I hadnt  seen anything showing that the total amount hed 
spent was above £7,140. So I couldnt conclude that Ageass offer was unfair.
claim handling/delays
On average I expected a claim of this nature to be settled in two to three months  that 
should allow  enough time for the damage to be inspected and repairs costed,  for drying  
out to happen, for alternative  accommodation to be found (if needed) and for the repairs 
to be done. In this case  Mr Ws claim was made in mid-October and the final settlement 
offer was made to Mr W in mid-July.
I thought Ageas acted promptly at the start of the claim in appointing representatives and 
moving the claim forward. For example, the initial  damage  was inspected a few days 
after the claim was made, the claim was validated and accepted  the following week, and 
a few days after that some of the initial stripping out work  started. A temporary  floor and 
toilet were also installed  to alleviate some  of the inconvenience  Mr W was enduring.
I thought the delays  started to occur  about a month into the claim when disputes arose 
regarding the inspection of the damage, the repairs needed and the alternative 
accommodation. My overall  observation was that while Mr W was entitled to seek  advice 
from local professionals to dispute whether or not contents needed removing to enable a 
fuller inspection,  and he was entitled to delay a decision on alternative accommodation, 
this did hold up the settlement of the claim.
Mr W told us about  extra costs hed incurred in respect of things  like air purifiers and 
fans, as they hadnt been provided.  I didnt know how much Mr W had spent on these 
extra costs, so I invited him to provide  me with further details in response  to my 
provisional decision so I could  consider the matter  further.  I nevertheless pointed out that 
what Ageas had paid in respect  of alternative accommodation would be relevant to my 
final conclusion on this point,  particularly if the amount  Mr W spent on alternative 
accommodation and extra  costs was less than the £7,140 Ageas paid for alternative 
accommodation.
Mr W also mentioned  other delays  such as his contractor submitting  a quote in mid-
March, a revised quote in May,  and requesting  authorisation to proceed a few days  later;  
but the contractor  telling him the following month  that he hadnt heard  anything from 
Ageas. I thought  this delay was reasonably explained as by early  March Ageas had 
decided to settle the claim on a cash basis  so it wasnt going  to authorise Mr Ws 
contractor to do the repairs. In mid- to late-March, after receiving the contractors  quote  
and Mr Ws rejection  of the cash offer, Ageas agreed to arrange one final appointment to 
confirm if the proposed  repair  was accurate. But the appointment was delayed  slightly  as 
Mr W said he wanted to wait until after Easter. Ageas then made a revised cash offer in 
early May after further repairs were  added.  Following a further  review  of the contractors 
quote the final offer was made in early July.
On the face of it the claim settlement looked to have taken six months longer than it 
should have. However, I wasnt minded to conclude this was due to significant  delays 
Ref: DRN06664207caused by Ageas. It seemed on balance  to be a natural result of the disputes  that arose 
in respect of the repairs and alternative accommodation.
There were  nevertheless two areas of the claim where I thought there might be grounds  
for compensation to be paid. But I said Id wait to see what Mr W and Ageas had to say 
before deciding what, if anything,  Ageas might need  to do to put things right.
The first area related  to drying out the property. There was reference  shortly after the 
first site visit to Ageas being in the process  of arranging a start date for the drying works. 
About a week later, there is reference  to dehumidifiers  being  installed. However, Mr W 
told us that no fans or dryers ever arrived;  which led to mould  and damp spreading, 
which in turn led to Mr W living in damp conditions. I therefore asked Ageas to show  me 
what drying equipment was installed,  when it was installed,  and where it was installed. I 
asked Mr W to do the same, or to confirm  that no dying equipment was ever installed.
In anticipation  of the further comments,  I proceeded  on the basis  that no drying  
equipment was installed. At the start of the claim Ageass intention  was to settle  the 
claim by repairing the damage.  As part of the repair process included drying out the 
property, it was incumbent on Ageas to dry the property as early as possible.  That 
shouldnt have  taken  more than a few days if proper  equipment was installed. So if no 
drying equipment  was installed  I thought  that was a failure on Ageass part to handle the 
claim properly.  And that failure had a detrimental  effect on Mr W as he had to continue  
living in the property in damp conditions.
The second area related to a leak from the temporary toilet  that was installed. The 
earliest reference I saw to this was in early  February when Mr W told Ageas that there 
might be a leak. The next reference  was in April when Mr W told Ageas hed recently 
learned the water leaking from the temporary toilet was waste;  and that a leak from the 
bath waste pipe had resumed. I understood that all leaks  were  eventually stopped by 
Mr Ws contractor  in early May.
It wasnt clear  to me what action Ageas took to resolve this issue.  So, I asked for 
Ageass further  comments. To my knowledge,  it was Mr Ws contractor who eventually  
attended to the leaks.  So while waiting for Ageass further comments  I worked on the 
basis that it essentially left it to Mr W to sort out. Although the toilet was intended to be a 
temporary fix until repairs could  be done  (which at the time was expected to be in a few 
weeks), it still needed installing correctly. And if something went wrong it seemed 
reasonable to me that Ageas was responsible  to fix it. My understanding was that 
Ageass defence was along  the lines of if Mr W hadnt unnecessarily delayed the claim 
the temporary fix wouldnt have failed. I didnt find that persuasive. Although it was a 
temporary fix, it had only been  installed for three  months when Mr W told Ageas that 
there might be a leak. And it was only just over three months into the claim at that point  
so any delays, whatever the reason for them, hadnt  been excessive.
I thought Ageas treated Mr W unfairly  by failing to attend  to the leak. And that failure  had 
a detrimental effect  on Mr W as he had to continue living  in the property with what turned 
out to be waste  leaking from the toilet.
responses to my provisional  decision
Ageas commented  on its handling of the claim in respect of the drying equipment  and leak 
from the toilet.
Ref: DRN06664208It said no drying of the property took place. It understood  this was because of the volume  of 
contents within the property and concerns with the integrity of the joists.  It said drying was 
not recommended until both were resolved. It further said that given the challenges faced  
with agreeing the method  to remedy the damaged joists and gain access  to the affected 
areas, when cash settling the claim it included drying works expected to be needed.  Ageas 
didnt think it was reasonable to conclude that it should have  put driers in when they would 
have been ineffective (as there  was limited airflow due to contents in the property) and 
drying could have potentially caused by damaged whilst the joist works  werent  completed.
For the leak from temporary toilet it said it could have taken more steps to fix this. It still felt 
the leak wouldnt have  happened if the temporary cistern had been in place for the expected  
amount of time, but appreciated  it had a responsibility to rectify the leak once it happened.  
Ageas noted the damage was in the same  areas  as the original leak so repair  work would 
have been included in the settlement  sent to Mr W. It regrets  that this aspect of the claim 
was overshadowed by the claim settlement negotiations and may not have received  the full 
attention it warranted.
Mr W also provided various  comments.  I havent  listed them all below, but they include:
Ageas  didnt install drying equipment  or attend to the leaks  from the temporary  toilet, sink 
and bath
Ageas  was regularly  notified of the inconvenience in trying  to wash each day and having 
to use a bucket  filled from the bath to flush the toilet
It was impossible to use the downstairs toilet as it was located directly  under the flow of 
the leaking toilet above and they were worried about the electrics
Not having  access to adequate personal care due to accommodation problems impacted 
on Mrs Ws health and put a strain on the family  and friends  who helped out
Sewage had leaked  into the kitchen, which led to having to buy one hot main meal per 
day; when money was tight they lived on sandwiches  and salads  which were often eaten 
in the car
The family was often separated as Mr W stayed in the home with the pets while  Mrs W 
and their son stayed elsewhere with friends who were able to help; that was also 
inconvenient as during  the day they couldnt stay in the friends house so they would 
have to sit in the car or try to stay in the garden
They felt bullied into accepting the repairs
The alternative accommodation offer was unsuitable for a variety of reasons, including:
othey couldnt move out without losing social care or access  to their doctor
othey were told their house would be uninsured if they moved into alternative 
accommodation
oa caravan wasnt ideal as their carers wouldnt empty the toilet
othe alternative accommodation was inaccessible to carers eg due to the lack of 
parking 
Ref: DRN06664209my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive kept to the headings that I used in my provisional decision and Ive again  focussed on 
the main points. Although Ive only summarised the comments  Mr W made  in response to 
my provisional decision, I have considered  all of what hes said before issuing this decision.
damage claim
I provisionally concluded that Ageas acted  fairly  in deciding to settle this part of the claim by 
making a cash payment  to Mr W, and that its offer of £10,244 was fair. I also concluded  that 
Ageas should  reimburse Mr W for the cost of the inspection that he arranged.
I still havent seen  anything which shows that the amount Ageas offered was insufficient to 
repair the damage caused by the leak. So it remains my view that the offer is fair. Ageas 
didnt provide further comments about  it reimbursing Mr W for the inspection, so it remains 
my view that it should do this.
alternative accommodation claim
I provisionally concluded that Ageas acted  fairly  in fitting a temporary floor and toilet in the 
upstairs bathroom to make the home habitable until the repairs started, in trying to find 
somewhere suitable for Mr W to live and in settling this part of the claim by paying Mr W 
£7,140.
In response to my provisional decision Mr W explained why the various options Ageas 
proposed were unsuitable and the difficulties he and his family suffered throughout the claim. 
I dont dispute  that and understand  the reasons why Mr W feels  this way. 
However, whats fair in my opinion remains the comparison  between  the amount  Ageas paid 
Mr W and the extra  costs  Mr W actually incurred in living elsewhere or in remaining in the 
property. Id only ask Ageas  to pay more than the £7,140 its already paid if Mr W can show  
that the costs  he incurred  were more than this. Mr W hasnt done  that, so there  arent any 
grounds for me to require  Ageas to increase its settlement  in this respect.
claim handling/delays
Although it looked  on the face of it that the claim settlement took longer  than it should  have, I 
felt that was a natural result  of the disputes  that arose rather than significant  delays caused 
by Ageas. Ive noted what Mr W has said in response to my provisional decision but I dont 
think that adds  to what hed told us previously. My conclusion in this respect therefore 
remains the same.
I provisionally concluded that Ageas mishandled the claim as it didnt  take sufficient action to 
dry the property and it treated Mr W unfairly  by failing to attend  to the leak from the 
temporary toilet. Both Ageas  and Mr W have  confirmed that no drying equipment was 
installed. Ageas has also accepted that it could have done more to fix the leak from 
temporary toilet. I now need to decide what Ageas needs to do to put matters right.
Ref: DRN066642010For the drying equipment, I felt that the repair process included  drying out the property  and 
was therefore  Ageass  responsibility as it initially intended on repairing the damage.  And I 
felt that not installing drying  equipment had a detrimental effect  on Mr W as he had to 
continue living in the property in damp conditions.
I note what Ageas has said about  the potential effectiveness of the drying  equipment and 
about the drying works being included when it cash settled the claim. But I dont think  that 
changes the fact that the drying  was part of the repair that Ageas was responsible for at a 
time when  it intended  repairing the damage, or that the property wasnt dried as quickly  as it 
ought to have been. This added to the distress and inconvenience Mr W suffered 
immediately after the initial  leak.
For the leak from the toilet,  I felt that if something went wrong  following the installation it was 
Ageass responsibility  to fix it. And I thought that by failing to attend  to the leak, Ageas had 
treated Mr W unfairly and had led to him living in the property  in unpleasant conditions. 
Ageas has now accepted  that it could have  done  more in to fix the leak.  I think  not doing 
more to fix the leak led to Mr W suffering considerable distress  and inconvenience  as he had 
to continue living in the property with what turned  out to be waste  leaking from the toilet.
So I think the only issue for me to now consider is what  it should do to put matters right.  
There is firstly the cost incurred in fixing the leak (not the damage caused by the leak as 
thats covered  under  the damage claim section above). If it hasnt done so already, I think 
the fair remedy is for Ageas to reimburse any costs  Mr W incurred in getting someone  out to 
fix the leak.
There is also the issue of the distress  and inconvenience caused to Mr W. I cant  turn back  
the clock and undo what has happened. Usually in this type of complaint I get the financial 
business to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience  suffered by the consumer, 
and thats what  Im going to do here.
Having considered the distress and inconvenience Mr W suffered, particularly as a result of 
Ageas not promptly attending to the leak from the temporary toilet, I conclude that £500 
compensation is appropriate.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Ageas Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr W £180 in reimbursement of the costs he incurred for damage  to be inspected,  
plus interest (less tax if properly  deductible)  at a rate of 8% simple  calculated from the 
date Mr W paid for the report
if it hasnt done  so already, reimburse  Mr W for the costs  he incurred in fixing  the leak 
from the temporary toilet, plus interest  (less tax if properly deductible)  at a rate of 8% 
simple calculated from the date Mr W paid for the repairs
pay Mr W £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN066642011Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2021.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0666420