K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) failed to tell him his medical upgrade  
cover had expired  under  his travel  policy, before he booked  a holiday.
background
Mr and Mrs D acquired their travel policy through their bank account. Due to Mr Ds health, 
he had applied for and was granted  a medical upgrade  to his policy, previously. This expired 
in September  2017 but Mr D said UKI didnt tell him it was about to expire  or indeed  invite 
him to renew it. 
Mr D then booked a holiday  in April 2018 believing his medical upgrade  cover  was still in 
existence. But when  he had to cancel his holiday  due to medical reasons, he discovered  it 
had expired.
So he complained to UKI. UKI apologised and acknowledged  it failed  to tell him this upgrade  
cover was due to expire. But it said considering  the position of his health in September  2017, 
even if Mr D had applied  for the medical  upgrade cover then, it wouldnt have been granted. 
Mr D remained  unhappy and brought his complaint  to us. The adjudicator  thought UKI 
should pay Mr D £50 compensation  for its lack of service  to him in notifying  him that the 
medical upgrade  cover  was due to expire. UKI refused so Mr Ds complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint for similar reasons to that of the adjudicator. Ill now explain  why.
Its clear to me that Mr D was extremely ill in September 2017 and clearly would not have 
remembered his medical upgrade was due to expire. 
Luckily, Mr Ds treatment was quite successful  at that time. So much so, that he felt able to 
go on holiday in April having seen a good  deal. Sadly, though due to his medical conditions, 
he then had to cancel this holiday shortly before the intended departure date. 
Whilst its not in dispute  that had Mr D been invited to renew his medical upgrade to his 
policy in September,  it would not have been offered due to this then medical  condition.  
Which would have  meant  his cancellation of his holiday in April wouldnt have been  covered 
then either,  as it would  have required  the medical upgrade for cover to have been in place 
for that cancellation.
Therefore, whichever we look at it, Mr D would  not have had the required cover in place to 
cover his cancelled  holiday in April 2018. 
However, thats not really the point.  The point is that UKI admit  they should have sent 
something to Mr D in September to remind his medical upgrade cover was expiring and/or 
invite him to renew  it. UKI apologised for that service failing but refuse  to consider it warrants 
any compensation. I disagree.  
Ref: DRN00207472UKI itself notes given  Mr Ds medical  condition he might have been classed as a vulnerable  
customer. It also specifically asked Mr D for further  information to assess  its duty to pay 
compensation. Mr Ds response was that it would have helped him to avoid the situation  he 
encountered. I agree.  It certainly would have been a useful  nudge  to clarify his medical  
upgrade status.  And if he had done  so, he might have acted differently in not booking a 
holiday and risking the loss of it due to cancellation on further health grounds, since  he was 
then ineligible  for the medical upgrade. 
Mr D had been told his prognosis in September  was terminal.  It turned out he reacted well to 
treatment so that his prognosis is no longer so imminently terminal.  Having such  a nudge  
about his travel policy medical upgrade  at that time certainly could have only helped  him in 
my view. I dont find it reasonable for UKI to have  expected Mr D (when obviously feeling so 
much better so as to book a holiday)  to also then check  his medical upgrade  status before 
booking this holiday when  he hadnt  been told it had expired many  months  previously. 
I think in situations  where  medical prognoses are then deemed  less terminal  than originally 
feared, its more usual  for people to be more  concerned about just getting  on with living  their 
lives. Just like Mr D was in booking  this holiday.  I dont find therefore, UKIs reasons for 
failing to agree such a nominal compensation award for its service failings fair or reasonable 
in these particular  circumstances.
Therefore, I consider  UKIs service  failing which it acknowledged and apologised for 
warrants compensation. And I consider  the £50 recommended by the adjudicator  to be fair in 
these circumstances.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr D £50 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0020747