K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that a used car he got with finance  provided by Burnley Savings and Loans 
Limited (BSLL) is of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr A was assisted in bringing  this complaint by a family member at times, but Ill refer to 
anything that was said on his behalf as if Mr A said it himself - to keep things simple.  
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 22 May 2020   a copy of this decision is attached and forms part of my final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  what Id decided  about this complaint  and 
what I intended to do  subject to any further submissions from the parties.
Neither party objected  to my provisional findings  and BSLL provided additional information in 
in relation to the deposit paid as set out below.  
  
my findings
Ive considered all the evidence  and arguments  available so far to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete - as some 
of it is here - I make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities. In other words, I consider 
what is most likely  to have happened, in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
BSSL sent us a breakdown that says price  of the car was £7,682  and there was just over 
£1,800 owing from the previous finance  - taking the part exchange  of £9,000  into account. 
This £10,802 was added to the cash  price of £7,682 on the finance agreement giving the 
total shown of £18,484. BSSL says its satisfied  the deposit paid was £250 and agreed to 
refund that  in addition to the other  refunds set out in my provisional decision.    
Our investigator sent this information to Mr A and explained I was minded to require BSSL to 
refund £250 in respect of the deposit, in the circumstances. He asked Mr A to respond by 1 
July 2020. That date has now passed.  Mr A hasnt objected or made  any further submissions  
and I see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings.  
my decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I uphold this complaint and require Burnley  
Savings and Loan Limited to:-
1.take the car back at no cost to Mr A and cancel the finance with nothing further owing 
(in respect of this HPA)  and mark it as settled on Mr As credit  file;
2.refund  the deposit of £250;  
3.refund  any monthly payments made after the breakdown from (and including) 
November 2018;
4.refund  the cost of repairs in the sum of £163.50;
5.pay interest on the above  refunds  at 8% simple a year from the date of payment  to 
the date of settlement;
6.remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr As credit file about this HPA from 
November 2018 onwards;  and 
Ref: DRN075917027.pay Mr A £100 for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN07591703copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr A complains that a used car he got with finance provided by Burnley Savings and Loans Limited 
(BSLL) is of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr A was assisted in bringing this complaint by a family member but Ill refer to anything  that was said 
on his behalf as if Mr A said it himself  - to keep things simple.  
background
Mr A got this car in October 2016 with a hire purchase agreement (HPA)  from BSLL. In October 2018,  
having driven the car about 20,000  miles, he had trouble with the engine  overheating  and low coolant 
levels. He had the car checked by a local garage (that Ill call M) and a coolant pipe was replaced but 
the car broke down a few days later. 
Mr A thinks the coolant  pipe was inherently faulty - as the manufacturer of his car recalled this part in 
other vehicles. The car was recovered to a main  dealership  where diagnostic checks identified low 
compression and coolant  was found in the cylinders. Mr A was told the engine  needed replacing and 
repairs would cost about £5,000. Mr A contacted BSLL (because it supplied the car) and got in touch  
with the manufacturer.  After some discussion the manufacturer agreed to replace  the engine  at no 
cost to Mr A and BSLL said it would  accept the car in part-exchange and arrange  alternative finance 
after the car was repaired. The repairs took about four months  and BSLL  told Mr A it couldnt offer a 
part-exchange as he didnt  meet lending  criteria. 
Mr A feels he was treated unfairly. He says the car came back in an unacceptable condition  - it was 
mouldy and damp  inside.  He complained to the manufacturer who arranged  for a third party to clean 
the car but Mr A says the cleaner told him the mould and damp would probably return - which it did, 
within days. Mr A has concerns about the way the car was stored and he doesnt think it is safe. He 
got a new car at the start of March  2019  - because the repairs took so long - and he wants  to reject 
this car and end the finance  agreement. 
BSLL says Mr A had the car for more  than six months before this issue appeared. He agreed to the 
repairs and the car was fixed  at no cost to him so BSLL shouldnt have to do anything  further. 
Our investigator thinks the complaint should be upheld. He says (in summary) 
the car had a coolant  pipe leak in October 2018 and the engine  failed completely not long 
after;
M says the engine probably failed due to damage caused by the faulty pipe;
the failure occurred some two years after supply but a part like this wouldnt usually be 
expected to fail in a car of this age and mileage; 
it is likely  the car had a manufacturing fault present when it was supplied;
the manufacturer appears to have accepted that as it paid for repairs;
Mr A wanted to reject the car and only agreed to further repairs  because  BSLL  said it would 
look at arranging  a part exchange;
the repairs took far too long and Mr A was left with little option but to get another  car; and
its reasonable  to allow him to reject the car and end the HPA now.  
He recommends that BSLL should take the car back at no cost to Mr A, cancel the finance with 
nothing further owing and refund any deposit  paid along with any monthly  payments made from 
November 2018 onwards. He says BSLL should also pay interest on the refunds and remove any 
adverse information from Mr As credit file. 
BSLL disagrees. It says (in summary) 
the outcome  proposed  is disproportionate  to the loss Mr A experienced;
when Mr A first contacted the manufacturer it looked as if the problem  was wear and tear 
related;
Ref: DRN07591704an email  from the main dealer says a report from the third party  garage that serviced the car 
shows oil levels were low which  BSLL considers could  have damaged the cylinders;
BSLL  offered to part exchange the vehicle after it was repaired but this offer had to be 
withdrawn as Mr A did not meet  lending criteria;
the problem occurred more than six months after Mr A got the car and BSLL  was entitled to 
one opportunity  to have  it repaired under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) - it was just 
unfortunate the repairs took longer than expected;
the manufacturer offered repair  not replacement to all vehicles affected  by this issue and 
would have  supplied a courtesy car if Mr A wanted one;
its unreasonable  for Mr A to feel unsafe in the car as repairs were  carried out to the 
manufacturers standards;
BSLL  didnt have the chance to discuss things with Mr A before he arranged to get a new car; 
and
he had no problems with the car after it was returned. 
BSLL asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Where evidence is incomplete - as some of it is here - I make 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I consider what is most  likely to have 
happened, in the light of the available evidence  and the wider circumstances.
BSLL supplied this car to Mr A under a HPA and it was obliged to ensure that the car was of 
satisfactory quality when  Mr A got it, under the CRA. This service provides informal dispute  resolution 
and I must take account of the relevant law (amongst other things).  Im satisfied that includes the CRA 
here but its not my role to apply  the law - only a court can do that. I make my decision based on what 
I think  is fair and reasonable  - in all of the circumstances of this complaint.
satisfactory quality
The quality of goods includes things like fitness for purpose, appearance  and finish, freedom from 
minor defects  and safety and durability.  And goods are of satisfactory  quality if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would  expect  taking all of the relevant circumstances into account  - such  as 
the price paid as well as the age and mileage (amongst other things), in the case  of a used car. 
According to the HPA this car was about four years old and had about 31,000  miles on the clock  at 
the point of supply. The HPA says the cash price  of the car was £7,782 but (just underneath) it also 
says the total cash price  including  VAT was £18,484. I asked Mr As representative  how much  the 
car cost.  She told me the first amount sounds about right and Im inclined to agree - for reasons Ive 
explained further below  (under  the section  headed  redress).  I think  a reasonable person would accept  
that a car of this age and mileage wasnt going to meet the same standards as a brand  new car - as 
some parts would  be worn and need to be replaced  sooner or later - which  is reflected in the lower  
price paid for a used vehicle.  
There appears to be no dispute that a coolant  pipe failed in October 2018 then the car broke down 
and the engine had to be replaced. Im satisfied, from paperwork Ive seen,  that the relevant 
manufacturer acknowledged  there is a coolant hose issue in some of its engines - like the one in Mr 
As car - but I accept  this doesnt mean every breakdown involving this sort of engine  must have been 
caused by this defect. 
I can see that M checked the car when Mr A first experienced  problems. M says the coolant hose 
failed and this failure probably damaged the engine causing the subsequent breakdown and need for 
the engine to be replaced. BSLL suggests this was caused by wear and tear and refers  to an email 
and report that suggest  oil levels  were  low when the car was inspected  by the garage that serviced 
the car. BSLL  thinks this could have damaged the engine. Our investigator asked for sight of these 
documents but BSLL hasnt  provided them. 
Ref: DRN07591705I dont think cars of this age and mileage usually  need the engine replacing  as the result of wear and 
tear. I have no reason to doubt what M says about the cause of the engine  damage and I consider 
Ms conclusions are not inconsistent with the results of the check  undertaken by the main  dealer.  I 
also think its reasonable to take into account the manufacturers decision to pay for the repairs to Mr 
As car - after it was inspected by a main dealer.  
On balance, I find it more likely than not this car had an inherent manufacturing  issue. Im satisfied 
that would have  been  present when the car was supplied meaning it was of unsatisfactory quality 
when Mr A got it. 
repairs
The CRA says a supplier  is entitled to one chance to repair goods in this situation. I realise  BSLL  
considers the car was repaired at no cost to Mr A so it shouldnt have to do more.  But, I think its 
understandable that Mr A feels the car was repaired once already  by the time he complained to BSLL 
- when M replaced the defective hose. And, even if I accept that BSLL  was still entitled  to arrange for 
the car to be fixed, I am satisfied  that right to repair is qualified under  the CRA. This provides (broadly  
speaking) that repairs should not take too long or put a consumer to significant inconvenience. 
I think  Mr A probably  thought these  repairs wouldnt take more than a few weeks when he agreed the 
manufacturer could replace  the engine  in November 2018. I can see he contacted  BSLL and the 
manufacturer several times over the next few months to say he was finding it difficult  to manage 
without the car. Ive seen an email to BSLL dated 22 January 2019 where  he told BSLL that the 
manufacturer was unable to estimate  when  the repairs might  be completed - as the replacement 
engine was on back order - and explained he was having financial problems. He couldnt  afford  to 
keep making  the monthly payments due under  the finance and fund the cost of alternative transport,  
such as taxis and a hire car, at the same time.
Mr A had been without the car for nearly  three months at this point and neither he nor BSLL had any 
idea how much  longer the repairs might take. It was open to BSLL  to take some steps to try and 
assist Mr A - it could have  tried, for example, to speed up the repairs or offered to arrange  a courtesy 
vehicle or reduce or suspend  the finance  payments. I appreciate BSLL  thinks the manufacturer would  
have offered a courtesy  car. But, Ive seen nothing to show thats the case  - and its difficult to see 
why Mr A would have  gone  to the trouble and expense of hiring a car if a courtesy car was available.
I think  it should have been clear to BSLL that Mr A was struggling financially as a result of being 
without the car and experiencing significant inconvenience by the end of January  2019.  Taking  
everything into account, I think it would have been reasonable to allow Mr A to exercise his final right 
reject the car (under the CRA) at that stage. And Im inclined to agree  with our investigator that it is 
fair and reasonable for Mr A to be allowed to reject the car now and end the finance agreement.  
redress
For the reasons  Ive set out above I am minded to find Mr A should  be allowed to reject this car and 
end the finance with nothing  further owing.  We would usually require  a lender to cancel the 
agreement and refund any deposit paid, in this situation. The HPA here says Mr A made  an advance  
payment here of £9,000, by way of trade in, and paid £250 cash. But, looking at the other figures  set 
out in the HPA, Im not sure this is correct. 
I say this because the HPA says the cash price of the car was £7,682 but the total price was £18,484. 
Looking at the rest of the agreement, I think the £18,484 may be the total of the amount the car was 
sold for - £7,862 - added to the balance  outstanding on finance for the car Mr A traded in. If Im right 
about that, the balance due on the trade in finance would  have been about  £10,802. (£18,484 minus  
£7,682). I think the dealer  may have used the residual value of the car Mr A traded in - £9,000 - plus 
the £250  cash  Mr A paid,  to settle the trade in finance. 
Ref: DRN07591706I appreciate the £9,000 is called an advance payment in the HPA but Im not satisfied,  on the current  
information, that this was a deposit in the usual  sense  of the word. If the calculations above are right 
it would mean  £1,552  remained owing on the trade in finance after the £9,250 was deducted. It looks 
as if the £1,552 may have been added  to this HPA. If I add £1,552 to the total cost of credit set out in 
the HPA of £5,740 and the cash  price  of £7,682 the total is £14,974 - which corresponds  to the 
balance payable under the HPA of £14,975.  
Mr A acknowledges there may have been some  negative equity  on the finance for the vehicle he 
traded in. I understand that finance was provided  by BSLL as well. And I would  be grateful if the 
parties could  please comment  on what Ive said above  in respect of the advance  payment in their 
responses to my provisional decision. It would also be useful to see any relevant paperwork - the 
original sale invoice for this car and details of the trade in car finance  and how that was settled  would 
probably be particularly helpful. 
The car broke down in November 2018 and the manufacturer  didnt repair it until the end of February 
2019. I think  it is fair Mr A should have any payments made during this time refunded as he didnt 
have the use of the car and wasnt provided  with alternative transport. 
I accept the car was returned at the end of February 2019 after the engine was replaced. Mr A says 
he didnt use it after that. I can see it was probably frustrating for Mr A to find the car was mouldy and 
damp on collection. I understand he had concerns about  the way it was stored and he had no faith 
that things  wouldnt go wrong again. Im also satisfied Mr A had already made arrangement  to finance  
a replacement car by this point - with help from a relative. And I dont think  that was unreasonable  in 
all of the circumstances. 
The replacement vehicle was delivered  at the start of March 2019 - just a day or so after Mr A got this 
car back. Ive seen evidence that the insurance  on this car was cancelled the previous November.  
And Im minded  to find, on balance, that its more likely than not Mr A did not use this car after it was 
repaired. Im inclined to find it fair that BSLL should refund any monthly payments made  from (and 
including) November 2018 in full, plus interest, in these particular circumstances.
Mr A has supplied  some evidence  about alternative transport expenses  incurred  for the time he was 
without this car before  getting the replacement  vehicle.  I realise this is frustrating  for Mr A but Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to require  BSLL  to refund this in addition  to the refund of monthly  payments 
referred to above - as that would  mean he paid nothing for transport during this period.  
BSLLs customer contact  records suggest that Mr A was struggling to keep  up with the monthly  
payments due under  the HPA at times. In the event  that BSLL recorded  any adverse information on 
Mr As credit  file after the engine failed, I think it is fair this should  be removed. 
From the information I have  at the moment, it looks as if Mr A paid M to replace the faulty coolant pipe 
in October 2018. According  to the relevant  invoice (dated 18 October  2018) the related  parts  and 
labour cost £163.50 (including VAT but excluding  the cost of the MOT). For the reasons  Ive given I 
think this pipe probably failed as the result of a manufacturing defect. And I am minded  to find it fair 
that BSLL  should refund  the cost of these repairs. 
Mr A says his partner used this car mainly.  Shes not named on the finance agreement so Im unable 
to require  BSLL to pay compensation for any distress and inconvenience she experienced. I think  it is 
likely however that Mr A was put to some  trouble  and upset himself  as a result of being  supplied with 
this faulty  car. He had to contact BSLL and the manufacturer numerous  times and I think the fact his 
partner couldnt use this car probably resulted  in additional trouble  and upset  for Mr A as well. I am 
minded to find BSLL should pay Mr A £100 compensation in recognition of that.   
I now invite  the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further comments or 
information by the date below. Ill look at all of the evidence available after that and make my final 
decision.
Ref: DRN07591707my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions that I may receive from the parties  by 22 June  2020, my 
provisional decision  is I intend  to uphold this complaint  and require Burnley  Savings and Loan Limited 
to:-
1.take the car back at no cost to Mr A and cancel  the finance with nothing further owing (in 
respect of this HPA) and mark it as settled on Mr As credit file;
2.(subject to my comments above) refund any deposit  paid; 
3.refund any monthly payments made  after the breakdown from (and including)  November 
2018;
4.refund the cost of repairs  in the sum of £163.50;
5.pay interest on the above refunds  at 8% simple a year from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement;
6.remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr As credit file about  this HPA from November 
2018 onwards;  and 
7.pay Mr A £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN0759170