K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained about  National House-Building  Council  (NHBC). It provides 
the building  warranty  for their home.  They think its caused delays in handling their claim for 
damage, and this has caused some elements of damage to be declined  by it (as being  found 
beyond the policy expiry date).
background
Mr and Mrs Ws property  benefits from a 10-year  warranty  that began  on 1 May 2007. In 
March 2017 Mr W called  NHBC as hed noted  water  ingress at his property. NHBC agreed to 
look into this and sent an inspector out to consider  the damage.  That inspection took place 
on 21 April 2017.
The inspector concluded damage  was likely covered  but felt an engineer  was needed to 
properly determine  the likely necessary repairs. NHBC issued an instruction for an engineer  
on 5 May 2017  and an engineer visited Mr and Mrs Ws home  on 24 May 2017. Following 
this a scope was arranged and costs  discussed. In September 2017 some work  started  but 
other issues with the property were then found.  Whilst  these issues  appeared to amount to 
damage caused by defects as covered by the policy NHBC said the problems had been 
identified outside  of the policy period. Therefore, it declined to deal with them. 
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy about this. They also said NHBC should replace some  glazing 
units. NHBC said these units might be subject to damage in the future, but as they werent 
damaged during the policy period, they werent  subject to the cover  on the policy. So it 
wouldnt replace  them. A dispute also arose  over guttering. This was covered by the policy  
and NHBC had agreed to resolve the problem  the guttering was causing  as part of the claim. 
However, NHBC didnt agree with the recommendations various  experts had made about 
how the problem  should be resolved. The guttering was known to be an issue at the outset 
but a remedial scheme wasnt agreed  for it until July 2018, a year later. Internal repairs  
couldnt be done until the guttering issue (which  was causing water  ingress) was resolved.
Mr and Mrs W were generally  unhappy about  how things were progressing.  They  
complained to NHBC. NHBC issued a final response on the complaint on 22 June  2018.  It 
said it couldnt look at issues that had arisen  after the expiration of the policy, or that didnt  
equate to major damage caused by a defect,  as required  by the policy.  It accepted there had 
been some  delays but also commented that this was a complex claim that was always  going 
to take time to resolve.  It offered £500  compensation.  Mr and Mrs W complained to us. 
Our investigator noted that the claim had taken some time but that, particularly at the 
beginning of the claim the delays were unavoidable. Overall she felt NHBCs claims 
decisions and its offer of compensation for the accepted avoidable delays (of £500) was fair 
and reasonable.  So she didnt uphold  the complaint.
Mr and Mrs W said they were unhappy  that £500  was really an insult. They said the claim 
was still not resolved now, more than two years  after it had been made. They said £500 
wasnt a deterrent  to NHBC.  Mr and Mrs W said that NHBC had constantly employed 
delaying tactics throughout the claim and it was delays  at the start of the claim that caused 
the new issues to be discovered after the policy expiration date. The complaint was passed 
for an ombudsmans  review.
Ref: DRN03960062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, with regret for any upset 
this causes Mr and Mrs W, Im not minded to change the outcome of their complaint. 
delay prior to policy expiration on 30 April 2017
Mr W first told NHBC of the issues at his home on 17 March 2017 and it acknowledged his 
claim on 29 March 2017.  It was then around a month before the first inspection took place. 
Im not persuaded that NHBC could have avoided this delay or acted to get the inspector out 
sooner. But even if I were  Id still say a fortnight, from the point the claim was acknowledged, 
for an inspection to take place, would be reasonable.
NHBC needed time following the inspection to consider the request for an engineer and get 
agreement for an appointment to be made. It did that within  a week  to ten days. I think  that 
was reasonable.  If I apply  that time period to the fortnight  period I mentioned above that 
means that the instruction  for an engineer to attend should have been  sent by around 
20 April 2017.
I think its reasonable again to say that it might take a fortnight for an engineers appointment 
to be arranged. Adding a fortnight on to 20 April 2017 means  the earliest Mr and Mrs W 
could reasonably have hoped to have an engineer attend was early May 2017.
It isnt clear from NHBCs file if all of the additional  issues NHBC has declined liability for 
due to policy expiring  were found once work  started in September  2017 or by the engineer 
during his first assessment of the property. Either way, given the timeline Ive set out here, 
the issues couldnt reasonably have been  discovered by NHBC before the policy  expired. So 
Im not persuaded that NHBCs actions at this time did prejudice Mr and Mrs Ws chance of 
having these issues dealt with under the policy.
glass panes
NHBC declined this issue because no damage  had occurred. I havent seen any evidence of 
damage and it seems the suggested reason for repair/replacement is that damage might 
occur in the future.  Im satisfied that NHBCs decision in this respect  is fair and reasonable. 
delay following the scope of work being  issued
The reports  and scope  identified  issues with the guttering. That was June 2017. But an 
acceptable proposal regarding the guttering wasnt put forward  until July 2018.   I think NHBC 
did cause delays in this respect.  Although  this was a complex claim that needed a lot of 
consideration, Ive seen  no reason  to suggest  the delay of nearly a year in this respect  was 
reasonable. And this did mean  other agreed work  couldnt progress because that other  work  
would have been compromised by water  ingress  due to the outstanding guttering repair.  
I accept this would have been  frustrating  for Mr and Mrs W.
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied that the £500 previously offered by NHBC is fair 
and reasonable compensation for the upset  its delays  caused. I appreciated that 
Mr and Mrs W view the sum as insulting particularly as repairs  remain outstanding. Id 
emphasise though  that I am only considering NHBCs activity and delay up to the final 
Ref: DRN03960063response issued  in June 2018.  If NHBC has delayed since  then that will need  to be 
considered as a new complaint, by it in the first instance.
Id also comment that this service doesnt seek to punish insurers or make them change the 
way they do business. We dont seek to make awards to protect others  from harm  in the 
future either. Our awards are to make up for the upset  the insurer  has caused  in the 
circumstances of the complaint being  considered. Here. I think  NHBC has delayed  the claim 
but I havent found its delays prejudiced  Mr and Mrs Ws position. And whilst  Im satisfied the 
delays it did cause did hold up the claim its compensation offer is, in my view fair and 
reasonable in this respect. Im not going to require NHBC  to pay anything  more. If NHBC 
hasnt paid this sum already and Mr and Mrs W want to benefit from it, they should contact 
NHBC.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.   I dont make any ward against National House-Building 
Council.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 December  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0396006