K820x#14complaint
Mrs P, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains  that she was mis-
sold a whole of life policy by Canada Life Limited. The CMC  has said: 
 She had no investment experience.
 No discussion took place regarding alternatives.
 Plan reviews were not discussed.
 No assessment was made regarding long term affordability.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mrs Ps complaint, a copy  of which is attached  and forms 
part of this final decision. 
In it I explained  that I didnt  think  the recommendation of the Adaptable Life Plan (ALP)  to 
meet her objective  of leaving a legacy for her grandchildren was unreasonable. I noted that 
while there was risk associated with the ongoing  affordability of the plan following any 
reviews, it had been set up on a standard basis. This wouldve reduced  the overall risk and I 
noted that, some 26 years  on, the £35 monthly premium  was still supporting the original sum 
assured of 15,000. 
I thought that even  in the event that the sum assured had been reduced at some point, it 
seemed likely that it wouldve been  to a level that would still provide a reasonable lump sum 
for Mrs Ps aim, especially  compared  with the other  options available  at the time.
I stressed that Id reached this conclusion on balance, as I acknowledged that there was 
never any guarantee that the ALP would produce  £15,000. But in all the circumstances, 
given Mrs Ps age at the time and the way the policy was set up, it struck me as entirely 
plausible that it was an option  she wouldve actively chosen. 
Mrs Ps CMC  didnt agree. It said
Mrs P had no investment experience and was sold a unit-linked plan without even 
being asked whether  she wanted to take any risk. 
If the plan is to have  any chance  of maintaining the cover  this will be dependent  upon 
mortality rates and investment performance. Mrs P was a widowed housewife, whose 
husband managed all their financial affairs. She had no idea how these plans 
worked.
She had no pension provision so would have to rely upon state benefits to fund 
premiums in retirement. This plan has been  reviewed annually  from age 60, so if she 
cant afford increased premiums then she risks the cover  dropping.
If Mrs P was prepared to take a medium level of risk she couldve invested the funds 
in a PEP.
Even assuming  a somewhat  conservative  average annual growth rate of 5% the 
premiums would  now be worth more than £22,000.  It wont  take long to exceed the 
level of cover, which isnt guaranteed. Over  the longer term there  is no doubt what  
the more suitable  option was.
A minimum premium for a PEP was £20 a month  so theres no argument  that the 
minimum premium  had to more than Mrs P has been paying.
She could even have invested the premiums  in a friendly society  plan which  was 
considerably more tax efficient than the recommended plan. While  the adviser may 
Ref: DRN01474652not have had this in his range  of products he couldve discussed it in generic terms 
so Mrs P could at least have made an informed decision.
The only person who stood to benefit from this extremely poor recommendation was 
the adviser who was guaranteed a generous amount of commission.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
Ive not been persuaded to depart  from my provisional view, which I continue to believe  is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
I made  very clear in my provisional  decision that it was very much on balance that Id 
reached the conclusion that the ALP was suitable for Mrs P. I acknowledge there were risks 
involved with using  it as a means by which to meet her legacy objective. But ultimately  
Mrs P had to create this legacy from scratch. As such, any option wouldve had to involve  
some risk. If she had simply saved the monthly premiums it wouldve have taken quite some 
time to achieve anything  like the sum she was hoping  for. And if anything  had happened to 
her in the short term the plan wouldnt have worked  at all. 
The CMC has pointed  to what Mrs P might now have if shed instead saved the premiums  
and achieved a reasonable  rate of return.  Of course, with hindsight  it can be seen that this 
option this wouldve been better. But I dont think its fair to use hindsight in this situation. I 
have to look at her circumstances at the time. And in 1993, although she had no savings, 
she had an income  and was cared for financially by her family. As such, I dont  think  that the 
ALP, set up on a standard basis to help ensure  the sum assured was supported for as long 
as possible, was an unreasonable recommendation.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01474653COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs P, represented by a claims  management company  (CMC), complains that she was mis-sold  a 
whole of life policy. The CMC has said: 
She had no investment experience
No discussion took place regarding alternatives
Plan reviews  were not discussed
No assessment was made regarding long term affordability
background
Mrs P was sold her Adaptable Life Plan (ALP) in 1993. At the time she was aged 56 and widowed. It 
was recorded that she lived with her adult children so all her living expenses  were met. 
She had no financial provision or existing life cover  but wanted to be able to leave a lump sum when 
she died, for the benefit of her four grandchildren. So the ALP was recommended  with a sum assured 
of £15,000 for a monthly premium of £35. 
In 2018 the CMC complained that the ALP was mis-sold for the reasons set out above. Canada Life 
didnt agree.  In short, it felt the plan was a reasonable way for Mrs P to meet her objective  and that 
the alternatives  for instance, term assurance or an endowment  wouldnt have been as attractive. 
The CMC didnt accept this, so the complaint was referred to us. Our adjudicator  didnt think  the ALP 
had been suitable as Mrs P hadnt had a need for life cover. But Canada Life remained of the view 
that it had been a reasonable recommendation, so the matters been referred to me to review.    
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive come to a different conclusion  to the 
adjudicator. On balance, I think it was reasonable to recommend  the ALP to Mrs P and Ill explain 
why. 
It was documented that Mrs P had a clear objective of generating a sum of money that would form a 
legacy for her grandchildren. In her circumstances, starting from a position  of having no savings, there 
were limited ways in which she could  try and achieve this objective  
 
In 1993 she was still relatively  young. She had no significant outgoings as a result of her living  
arrangements and she was able to spare part of her limited income. So putting  some money  aside  
each month  in order to build up a sum to leave to her grandchildren appears to be a reasonable aim. 
She could  have committed the £35 to a savings scheme of some sort. But given the limitations 
created by her age its likely such  a scheme wouldve failed to produce the sort of figure she was 
looking for. Canada Life has confirmed  that an endowment of some sort wouldve been  much more  
expensive.
In light of this I dont  think that the ALP was unreasonable. While there was risk associated with the 
ongoing affordability of the plan following futures reviews, it was set up on a standard  basis,  which 
wouldve reduced  this risk  indeed, some 26 years on, the £35 monthly  premium is still supporting 
the original  sum assured. And even in the event that the sum assured  had been reduced at some 
point, it seems likely that it wouldve been to a level that would still provide a reasonable  lump sum for 
Mrs Ps aim, especially  compared with the other options available.
I would stress  that Ive reached  this conclusion very much on balance,  as I do acknowledge that there 
was never any guarantee that the ALP would produce £15,000.  But in all the circumstances, given 
Ref: DRN01474654Mrs Ps age at the time and the way the policy was set up, it strikes me as entirely  plausible that it 
was an option she wouldve  actively  chosen. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I may receive, Im currently of the view 
that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Ref: DRN0147465