K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains Santander  UK Plc have refused to refund a transaction  he didnt authorise.  
Hes also unhappy with the banks decision to close his account.
background
Mr O disputes a single transaction  of £1,708 which took place on 2 December 2017 at an 
Apple Store.  
Santanders records show an Apple device, linked  to Mr Os account, was used to make the 
payment.
Mr O says the device in question was an Apple iWatch which  hed recently purchased  online  
 though hes unable to provide any evidence to demonstrate the purchase. Hes unsure of 
the model but thinks it was either  a generation one or two iWatch.
Santanders records dont  appear  to conclusively show  which device was used  only that it 
was first linked to the account on 29 November 2017 and used  for a few low value payments 
the following  day. Something which Mr O doesnt  dispute.
Mr O says he noticed the device was missing  as early as 30 November 2017 but, assuming 
hed misplaced it, didnt  report the loss until after the transaction had taken place. 
Mr O claims to have  been at home all day on 2 December  2017 apart from a brief period of 
time when  he left the house to buy food and withdraw cash  locally.  Hes provided evidence 
from his mobile phone which he says demonstrates  this.
Santander rejected  Mr Os claim. It concluded  that, based on the model  of iWatch Mr O said 
hed purchased, his mobile phone would have had to have been near the watch when the 
payment was made. 
It also said a passcode  would have to have been entered into the iWatch for the transaction  
to go through.  Mr O acknowledged setting up a passcode for the iWatch  but said he hadnt  
recorded it or shared it with anyone. 
Santander, unable  to see how the transaction had taken  place  if Mr O hadnt been  involved, 
refused to refund the transaction.
One of our adjudicators investigated Mr Os complaint. She was satisfied  the transaction 
would have required both the presence  of Mr Os iPhone and the entering of his passcode  
into the iWatch. She found there  was no reasonable explanation for how someone other 
than Mr O possessed either.
She highlighted several  inconsistencies in Mr Os account of events, noting Mr O had 
seemingly travelled across London to withdraw cash and purchase food  a location  much 
closer to the Apple store than his home address.
She was also surprised Mr O hadnt  done  anything about the loss or his iWatch and couldnt  
recall its model. 
Mr O disagreed with the outcome and asked  for the matter to be considered by an 
ombudsman here at our service. 
Ref: DRN07502422Prior to my review one of our investigators  contacted Mr O again. She explained that she 
didnt think the banks decision to close Mr Os account was unfair and that it had acted in 
line with the account terms and conditions.  Mr O didnt respond to this point, but Ive 
assumed he still wants it reviewed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where the evidence is inconclusive or contradictory,  I need  to make a finding on the balance  
of probabilities, that is to say what is more likely than not to have happened.  
Having considered all the available evidence,  Im not upholding Mr Os complaint. Ill explain 
why.
the disputed transaction
In order to hold Mr O responsible for this transaction it is for Santander  to show  that it was 
authenticated and that Mr O consented  to it.
Santanders electronic records  show the transaction was authenticated using an Apple 
device which  was linked to Mr Os debit card. Much of the debate  here is not, strictly  
speaking, about  authentication but what other conditions  (set by Apple, rather  than 
Santander) would have been  necessary for the transaction to have taken place.
Ive considered information  available about the Apple iWatch carefully and, having done so, I 
think its more likely  than not:
Either model of iWatch Mr O believes he might have purchased has the capacity to 
operate without  being near the iPhone  to which it is linked.
If the watch is removed from the wearers wrist it would require a passcode  to be used, 
including the Apple Pay feature.
Ive taken this information from the Apple website  in which features  of the iWatch are 
discussed.
Mr O says he didnt share  his passcode with anyone, it wasnt written  down anywhere and it 
wasnt a number that could have been  easily guessed. So, if I am to assume  the above 
information is correct  and that the relevant technology operated  as it should have done, then 
the only reasonable conclusion is that the transaction was carried  out by or someone with 
Mr Os watch  and in full knowledge of its passcode.  
There appears to be a very limited prospect of a third party  being able to know what  this 
passcode was  given that Mr O created it just a few days  before and would, presumably, 
have had little reason  to re-enter  it following this.  Even if Mr O had been observed entering  
his passcode on 29 or 30 November 2017  its unlikely  a third party would have either:  taken 
the watch then but not used it for several  days or, followed Mr O for a day or more until they 
had a chance to take it from his possession. 
Ref: DRN07502423Its also true that whoever had the watch didnt attempt any further transactions with it. There  
were still funds available in Mr Os account. An unknown third party may not have known  
exactly how much, and they might have already had an earlier  transaction declined. But it 
seems strange they wouldnt have attempted any further use of a payment method they 
knew they had full access to.
Given Mr Os testimony  about the passcode, it would be difficult  to see how the transaction 
was possible without  his consent or by someone  with whom hed shared his passcode.
Mr O has provided  some  evidence to show his location at the time of the disputed 
transaction. I accept  it appears to show that location  as having been at his home address. 
But that does  also mean that Mr O didnt take his phone with him when he went out to 
withdraw cash. And I can also see hes made  other purchases, on different days,  when his 
phone was at home.  I cant  then be satisfied that the location data provided means Mr O was 
at home  when the transaction took place, only that his phone  was.
And, considering the other evidence available, there  are several  reasons why I think its 
more likely than not Mr O authorised these  transactions:
Mr O has been  inconsistent about his location  on the day of the disputed withdrawals  
hes variously told the bank and our service that he didnt leave the house at all or only to 
withdraw cash in the local area;
But the banks  records show he used his card a considerable  distance away  from his 
home, further away than the location of the disputed transaction;
Mr O can provide  no evidence of the iWatch purchased despite buying  it through  an 
online listing website  a process which would normally require the exchange  of some 
written communication;
He failed to report the loss of the watch for several days and didnt unpair it from his 
iPhone or report it as lost  despite  having  only recently acquired it  or use a device 
finding feature.  All of these were  possibilities at the time.
Given the concerns  I have  about  Mr Os testimony, it alone isnt enough to persuade  me that 
any of the information about how the transaction ought to have taken place is incorrect.  That 
is to say it seems more likely than not a passcode would have been required to activate the 
Apple Pay feature. Theres no explanation  for how an unknown  third party  might  have 
obtained the I Watch  along with the required  passcode. So, I think  its more likely  than not 
that Mr O authorised the transaction either  by carrying it out himself  or by giving a third-party  
permission.
the closure of Mr Os account
Santander essentially found that Mr O had either carried  out the disputed transaction himself 
or allowed someone else to do so and yet had raised a claim of fraud.  It appears  to have 
been off the back  of its investigation here that it decided to withdraw Mr Os banking 
facilities. I can see why such an action might  have been prompted  in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN07502424It is the case that a bank  can withdraw  facilities at any time, if it does so fairly and in line with 
the account terms and conditions.  I can see here that Santander has done what it needed to. 
It gave Mr O enough notice of the closure, as per the account  terms and conditions, and so I 
cant say its done  anything wrong  here.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0750242