K820x#14complaint
Mr Q says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by post in 2002. The policy  gave Mr Q 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. It was taken out at the same time as Mr Q 
applied for his credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr Q disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Qs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr Q says he wasnt told about PPI at the point of sale,  it was added  without his 
knowledge. But Mr Q had no direct  contact with the bank  as he applied  by post, and 
on his application  form the options  to select or decline PPI were set out with equal 
prominence. His form shows he ticked the yes box indicating  he wanted to take out 
PPI. Overall,  I think Capital One made it clear to Mr Q the PPI was optional  and he 
agreed to take it out.  
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr Q, so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. It was up to Mr Q to decide whether the policy  was right for him, 
bearing in mind his ability to make his credit  card repayments if he was sick or lost 
his job. 
Its possible Capital One didnt give Mr Q all the information about the PPI that he 
needed before he made his decision.  But Mr Q chose to take out the policy and so 
appears to have wanted this type of cover.  He wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. And the policy was competitively  priced and apparently 
affordable. At the time Mr Q had no savings or other  insurances  and was entitled to 
between three and six months  sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to his work benefits and for up to 12 months.  So based on his circumstances at the 
time of this sale, I think it unlikely Mr Q wouldve made a different decision if better  
information had been provided.  
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr Q because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr Q about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr Q, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN00900042To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr Q.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mr Q any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0090004