K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that National Westminster Bank plc (Natwest) lost track of a sum of 
money that she had deposited with it when she mistakenly attempted  to pay the money into 
a closed account.
background
Miss W has an account with an intermediary financial business which  agrees to hold funds 
on trust for its customers and help to organise  payments for them. Ill refer to this business 
as T. T had an arrangement that its customers could pay in funds at Natwest  branches 
which would be credited to the account  T had with Natwest, and segregated into a 
designated sub-account for the customer,  so that T held the sub-account balance on trust for 
that customer. This arrangement ended in 2016.  
Miss W paid funds in at Natwest under this arrangement between 2016 and 2018 and the 
money was transferred successfully to her T sub-account. She successfully did so in 
October 2018. But when she paid in £90 cash at a Natwest branch in November 2018, it 
wasnt transferred to the T sub-account. 
Miss W complained to this service.  Our investigator  thought we could  look into her 
complaint. He said Natwest had caused  a significant  amount of distress to Miss W when it 
was unable to locate her funds, and so said it should  pay £300 compensation to her.
Natwest disagreed  with our investigator. It said the rules of our service meant we couldnt 
look at the complaint. Ive already completed  a decision  outlining why we can consider  the 
complaint. Natwest has accepted my reasons for this but has asked for a final decision to be 
made on the merits of Miss Ws complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are, Im satisfied,  two occasions  during the course of this transaction  where Natwest  
was at fault. The first was in accepting the payment  from Miss W in November  2018.  The 
relationship between Natwest and T had ended nearly two years before this. And while its 
accepted that Miss W would have been made aware  that the arrangements for paying into 
her account  with T were changing in 2016,  she continued making successful  payments via 
Natwest into the account after that date.  
Its not clear why Natwest continued  to accept payments from Miss W and transferred them 
into the sub-account  between  2016  and 2018,  after the arrangement had ended. Theres no 
record of any of these  payments  being unsuccessful or Miss W being informed that the 
arrangement between Natwest and T had ended. And similarly, its unclear why the final 
payment wasnt transferred to the sub-account. Natwest correctly observes that the 
arrangement had ended,  so the facility to make those payments no longer existed. But it had 
ended two years before,  and previous payments had been successfully transferred. So Im 
satisfied that Natwest  shouldnt have accepted the payments from 2016 onwards, and Miss 
W should have been directed to T to find out how to transfer money  to her account.
Ref: DRN04661512But having  accepted the payments when  no arrangement was in place, its my opinion that 
the more serious  error by Natwest is that it was unable to locate Miss Ws funds when they 
werent deposited in her T account  after she made the final deposit.  Im pleased  that since  
she brought her complaint to this service, Natwest has been  able to locate the funds  and 
returned them to Miss W. Im not sure why Natwest was unable to repay  the funds to Miss W 
before this, as she had evidence of the deposit having been  made  with Natwest,  and that the 
funds hadnt been received in her T account.  I dont think  it was fair for Natwest  to not pay 
her back  the money  she deposited until it had located the funds. It wasnt her fault that 
Natwest had accepted the payments after the arrangement with T had ended.
And the effect  of all this has been quite  significant on Miss W. Shes explained  that the 
money she had deposited  with Natwest was intended to pay for bills and living expenses.  
And because the money wasnt deposited in the T account, she couldnt travel to work  and 
had to take unpaid leave.  She also borrowed money  from friends in order to have money for 
food. And Ive said that Natwest  shouldnt have accepted the deposit  initially, and should 
also have returned  the money to her sooner.
To that end, I think Natwest should pay Miss W compensation for the effect of its errors. I 
think £300 is reasonable in the circumstances. While I acknowledge this is significantly more  
than the amount in question, its evident Miss W was seriously  affected  by what happened 
as Ive outlined  above. It took several months,  including the referral of her complaint to this 
service, for Natwest to locate and return the money to her. In this case,  I think this amount of 
compensation to recognise the distress  caused is appropriate.
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold the complaint. I order National  Westminster Bank plc to pay 
£300 compensation to Miss W.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss W to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0466151