K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains that Autorama UK Limited failed to honour  an order  she placed for a new 
car.
background 
In September  2018 Miss M ordered a new car and paid a £500 reservation  fee/deposit. The 
car was due to be delivered on 30 November 2019 but shortly  before this on 21 November 
2019 Miss M was advised that the car wasnt in stock and the car couldnt  be supplied.
Miss M complained to Autorama who offered  to source an alternative car. Miss M didnt want 
this option. She was also unhappy about  the length  of time it had taken to deal with her 
complaint. She said the delay had devalued  her current  car which  shed intended to sell.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said that despite lots of correspondence,  
Autorama hadnt  offered Miss M a suitable  alternative. He recommended  that Autorama 
refund the reservation fee and pay compensation of £350.
Autorama replied and said the reservation  fee had been refunded in May 2019.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigator. She felt that Autorama had acted unreasonably in 
telling her a week  before  the car was due to be delivered that it was unavailable. She said 
the compensation wasnt enough to reflect the delay and the chasing shed had to do.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all of the correspondence between  Miss M and Autorama. Autorama has said 
that it wasnt able to proceed  with the order due to a  pricing discrepancy and that by the 
time this was  resolved the stock availability for the car had diminished and it was no longer 
possible to supply it.
Whilst I have no reasons to doubt Autoramas explanation, I dont think it was reasonable to 
leave it until a week before the car was due to be delivered to Miss M to tell her that it was 
no longer available. I can see that approximately  2 months passed  between Miss M ordering 
the car and being told it was no longer available. So I can understand how disappointed and 
frustrated she mustve  felt.
I can see from the correspondence that there were some issues with the service Miss M 
received from the dealership. Im unable to comment  on these within  the context of this 
decision because I can only look at whether Autorama acted  fairly  and reasonably.
Autorama hasnt been able to provide Miss M with the car she ordered. It has suggested 
alternatives at the same  price but these have a smaller engine and the specification isnt the 
same. Theres also a delivery  timescale  of between  4 -16 weeks depending  on colour. Given  
the length of time Miss M has been trying to resolve  this, I dont think its reasonable to 
expect her to accept a different model  with a delayed delivery  date.
Ref: DRN03409762Ive also taken into account that it took several  months to return  Miss Ms reservation fee of 
£500. Its clear from the correspondence that Autorama  wasnt  able to supply what  Miss M 
ordered so I think  this should have  been returned sooner.
That said,  I can see the reservation fee has been  returned so I wont be asking Autorama to 
return it as the investigator did.
Ive taken account of what  Miss M has said about  the money shes had to spend  on servicing 
her current  car and the devaluation shes suffered. I havent been provided with evidence of 
either but I do appreciate that Miss M has had to keep  her current car for longer than she 
wanted to. I think this disappointment  is reflected in the compensation award,  which also 
takes account of the length  of time it took to return the reservation  fee. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Autorama  UK Limited  must pay 
compensation of £350 to Miss M for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0340976