K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Bank  of Scotland  Plc (Halifax) mis-sold them two mortgage  
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policies.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage in 1995 with Halifax and at the same time also bought  an 
MPPI policy. The policy covered Mrs R only.
In 2007, Mr and Mrs R arranged a mortgage with Halifax and with this also took out a new 
MPPI policy. This policy  jointly covered Mr and Mrs R against accidents,  sickness and 
redundancy.
Mr and Mrs R say Halifax mis-sold both MPPI policies to them.  They say in both meetings 
they were told it was in their best interests to take out the insurance. They  say they did not 
need either policy because of their circumstances at the time of each sale.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about the sales in 1995 and 2007. 
Mr and Mrs R disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Here are my reasons:
The sale that took place in 1995
Mr and Mrs R say they were told it was in their best interests to take out an MPPI policy 
when they met with a representative  from Halifax in 1995. So I have looked into this. 
I cant be sure what was said between the two parties in the meeting. Mr and Mrs Rs 
recollections are not detailed either  although this is understandable due to the amount  of 
time that has passed since the sale took place. So because  of this I have needed  to 
consider the documentation from the time of sale to give me a better idea as to what 
more likely than not happened.  
I can see that Halifax used a separate MPPI form during the meeting called Mortgage 
payments protector application. I can see that the MPPI policy is presented  as optional 
on this form and Mrs R has signed it. When I consider this and also what I have already 
concluded, I think it is more likely  Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs R a recommendation to have 
MPPI, and they took it based on that advice.
Moving on, as I have  just concluded I think Halifax gave advice to Mr and Mrs R to have  
the policy. So it needed to ensure the policy was suitable for Mrs R (as the sole policy 
holder).
Ref: DRN08369552Based  on the information Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Mrs R. I say this 
after considering  her circumstances at the time of sale.  Because, although Mrs R had 
sick pay (Mrs R has said she would have had 12 months sick pay, and I think  this is 
more likely than not 6 months full and 6 months  half sick pay) and other provisions she 
could have used,  the MPPI policy would have paid out if needed  in addition to her other  
means. Having the policy in place would mean  Mrs R could use any provisions she may 
have had to cover  other expenses.  I dont  think her means  are sufficient  for me 
reasonably to say that she wouldnt have had at least  some  use for the policy for any 
extended periods  when  she needed it.
Mrs R was not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits.  It is 
unlikely she needed better advice or information  about  the policys  exclusions and 
limitations and if she had received clear information  on these terms I dont think  it would 
have put her off.
Finally, I cant  be sure if the costs were  disclosed clearly to Mr and Mrs R, but I dont 
think they would have done  anything  differently  anyway for the same reasons as I have 
already given. Ive also seen nothing  to suggest it was unaffordable.
The sale that took place in 2007
Again,  Mr and Mrs R say they were  told it was in their best interests to take out the MPPI 
policy and say they didnt need  it. So I looked  into this and considered their recollections 
along with the sales documentation  provided  by Halifax.
On doing this, I am persuaded that Mr and Mrs R were given a choice to have the MPPI  
policy and they chose it. I cant be sure what was said by Halifax  during the meeting  but 
after considering  what has been  said by both parties since and also the documentation 
from the time, I am persuaded they were  given a choice. I say this after seeing how the 
optional nature of the policy is displayed in a demands and needs  form along with a key 
facts document.  
Based  on what I have seen in the sales documentation, I think  Halifax gave advice to   
Mr and Mrs R to have the MPPI  policy. So it needed to ensure  the insurance  was 
suitable for their needs. I think it was. I say this because, although Mr and Mrs R say 
they had good sick pay, a pension and also a lump sum of money at the time, I think  they 
would have found some value in having the cover in a time of need  over an extended 
period of time. Mr and Mrs R also couldnt  find any supporting documentation  regarding 
their lump sum savings  so I cant be sure that they would have had access to this at the 
time of sale when Halifax needed  to ensure the policy was suitable  for them.  
I also couldnt find any limiting  or significant  terms  that would have made the policy  
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs R either.
I am not sure if Halifax did disclose  the costs for the MPPI policy in 2007  clearly. But 
I dont think Mr and Mrs R would have done  anything differently for much  the same  
reasons that I have  already given.
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision to make but based on what I have seen, I do 
not think the MPPI policies arranged in 1995 or 2007 were mis-sold.
Ref: DRN08369553So I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
my decision
I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0836955