K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that National  Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs A payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2002. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs A disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Ive also taken full account  of the comments 
made in support of the complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr P says,  I do not understand why NatWest subsequently asked me to sign for this 
(amongst no doubt a flurry of documents to sign for the mortgage). He says the PPI was 
added without his knowledge. However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened  
unless there  was reasonable supporting evidence of this. Where someone has said another 
person or organisation has done something  wrong, fairness requires that the person making 
the allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to 
require someone  to prove they didnt do something, especially when it was such  a long time 
ago. 
I can see that, originally, the mortgage  application  form recorded  that Mr and Mrs A didnt 
want to take PPI. But a few months later Mr A signed a PPI application form and also a 
direct debit mandate for payment of PPI. I cant say whether this was as a result of 
discussion between Mr and Mrs A and NatWest, or whether it was an error or deliberate  
misdirection by a member of NatWest  staff. But the PPI application  form is very clear about 
its purpose. 
I can quite see that, as Mr A says,  there  can be a flurry of documents to sign and you might  
sign something without  properly checking. But I think the two documents largely cancel 
themselves out in terms of evidence of NatWest  acting  wrongly.  And so, without stronger 
evidence, I cant fairly  say the PPI was added without Mr and Mrs As consent. On the 
evidence I do have,  I think it more  likely  than not that Mr and Mrs A agreed  to the PPI, even 
if they now dont  remember  this so many  years later.
Ive thought about other ways in which the PPI might  have been mis-sold. But I dont think  
these apply:
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs A as being  particularly suited to 
their individual needs. This means it didnt have  to check if the PPI fitted  their 
Ref: DRN09051072circumstances. It would have been for Mr and Mrs A to decide whether it was 
suitable.  
Its hard to know how well NatWest explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy. But 
I dont anyway think its likely  that full and clear information about the costs would 
have affected  whether  Mr and Mrs A took the PPI.
Its possible NatWest didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs A would  have been affected by any of these. And theyd 
be paying for it monthly, so they could  cancel it at any time without  further cost if their 
situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0905107