K821x#15complaint
Mr L says Elevate Credit  International  Limited,  trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to him. 
Mr Ls complaint has been brought to this service by a claims management company. But for 
ease I shall refer below to all actions being  taken  by Mr L.
background
This complaint is about 11 short term loans Sunny provided to Mr L between  July 2017 and 
August 2018.  All the loans  have been  repaid. The loans were repayable by 24 weekly  
instalments. Mr Ls lending history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 30/7/17 11/1/18 £400
2. 12/8/17 7/9/17 £50
3. 8/9/17 22/2/18 £100
4. 7/10/17 12/4/18 £50
5. 19/10/17 26/4/18 £50
6. 23/1/18 27/6/18 £300
7. 15/4/18 27/6/18 £400
8. 10/5/18 17/10/18 £100
9. 31/5/18 15/11/18 £100
10. 16/7/18 4/2/19 £450
11. 1/8/18 4/2/19 £50
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld in part. He said that 
Loans 5 onwards shouldnt have been  given  to Mr L. 
Sunny responded to say that Mr L only used on average 4.76% of his income to repay  each 
loan. The loans  appeared to be affordable.  It said that all the loans had been repaid early. 
Sunny said that it allowed consumers  to take up to four loans with it at any one time and it 
also took other loans  into consideration  when  it made its assessment. It said that it used 
information obtained from Mr L about  his income  and expenditure (including  other short term 
loans) and from credit  reference agencies to assess the loans. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When Sunny  lent to Mr L the regulator  was the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  and 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr L could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
Ref: DRN08562062consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);  
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time 
during which a customer  has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Sunny did a number  of checks  before  it lent to Mr L. It asked him for details of his income  
and expenditure.  Mr Ls declared income for all the loans was £1,300. Mr L declared his 
expenditure as between  £286 and £725. 
Sunny also checked  Mr Ls credit  file before agreeing to the loans. It has provided us with a 
summary of the results of its credit checks. It appears that Mr L had other short  term lending  
from other lenders  before Loans 10 and 11. He wasnt bankrupt or in an individual voluntary 
arrangement or in a debt management plan. I cant otherwise see any adverse information 
on Sunnys credit checks which I think should  have caused additional concerns to Sunny.
Mr L needed to make total monthly equivalent  loan repayments of around £130  to £163 to 
Sunny for Loans 1 to 3. Loan 1 was still outstanding  when he took out Loans 2 and 3. But I 
think the repayments were relatively  modest  compared to Mr Ls declared income. 
Given Mr Ls repayment amounts, what was apparent about  his circumstances at the time, 
and his history with the lender, I dont  think it wouldve been proportionate  for Sunny to ask 
Ref: DRN08562063him for the amount of information that would be needed to show  Loans 1 to 3 were 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr L provided before Loans 1 to 3 or the 
information Sunny shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to 
start verifying what he was saying.  So I dont think Sunny was wrong  to give Loans 1 to 3 to 
Mr L. 
Loan 4 was taken out about a month  after Loan 3, but Loans 1 and 3 were still outstanding. I 
think by that stage Sunny may have been concerned that Mr L was borrowing a third loan 
from it whilst  two loans remained to be paid.  The total equivalent monthly repayments were  
around £180. I dont  think at that stage of its relationship with Mr L that Sunny had any 
reason to doubt the information  hed provided, and I dont  think  it was unreasonable  for 
Sunny to rely on the assessment of £780  for Mr Ls disposable  income.  But Loan 4 was 
Mr Ls fourth loan in just over two months  and the total monthly loan repayment for Loans 1, 
3 and 4 was a relatively high proportion of his disposable income. So I think Sunny should 
have supplemented the information it held by asking  Mr L some more  detailed questions, 
such as whether he was borrowing from other short term lenders at the same  time.
I would normally look at the borrowers bank  statements to see what  proportionate checks 
would likely  have shown.  Unfortunately  Ive not seen Mr Ls bank statements for the month 
before Loan 3. I note that the adjudicator had asked Mr L for his bank statements in 
October 2018 so he has had ample time to provide these. So I cant say that if Sunny had 
completed sufficient checks, it would  have found that Mr L couldnt afford to repay Loan 4 
sustainably. So I cant say that Sunny was wrong  to give Loan 4 to Mr L.
Loan 5 was taken out less than two weeks  after Loan 4 and whilst Mr L was still repaying  
Loans 1, 3 and 4. This meant that hed be repaying  total monthly equivalent loan repayments 
of around £200  for three months. I think Sunny might have been concerned that Mr L was 
borrowing a fourth loan from it whilst three  loans  remained to be paid. I think the number of 
Mr Ls short term loans with Sunny should have suggested that Mr L was having problems 
managing his money. And as Loan 5 was Mr Ls fifth loan with it in less than three months,  I 
think Sunny  should  have  been concerned that Mr L might have been reliant on its lending. 
So I agree with the adjudicator that Sunny shouldnt have given Loan  5 to Mr L.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending with Mr L to see if there  was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt  have provided any 
further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ls case, I think that this point was reached by 
Loan 6. I say this because:
By Loan  6, Mr L had been borrowing from Sunny for over five months and Loan 6 
was his sixth loan in less than six months.  
Mr L applied for Loan 6 whilst  he still had Loans 3, 4 and 5 outstanding. This 
suggests that he was having difficulty managing  his money.
Mr L hadnt had any break in his borrowing since Loan 1. 
I can see that as Sunny  didnt stop lending  at this point, Mr L went on to take out another five 
loans in the following seven months.  I think that Mr L lost out because Sunny continued to 
provide borrowing from Loan 6 onwards because:
Ref: DRN08562064these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Ls ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
The fact that the loans  were  repaid doesnt mean that they were repaid  sustainably, 
or without causing Mr L undue  difficulty.  I note that Loans 10 and 11 were  repaid 
beyond the due date.
I note that Sunny said that the loans were not only sustainable but also affordable and it said 
that Mr L was only using an average  of 4.76% of his income to repay each loan. Sunny had 
also said that it made credit checks and asked about  other short term loans.  It had also used 
the information Mr L had provided to assess the affordability of the loans. But I think Sunny 
will (or ought to) know from previous  decisions (as well as whats set out on our website) that 
there are cases where this service considers the overall lending  pattern and not just the 
affordability of each loan.  And there  will be times when the pattern of lending  alone is 
enough to indicate that a consumer is likely to be in financial difficulty  or would otherwise 
be harmed should  relending continue. So it follows that successful repayment  of a loan 
doesnt automatically mean it was repaid sustainably.
I also note that Sunny  said that all the loans  had been repaid early.  But this isnt correct. It 
appears four of the eleven  loans were repaid early and two were repaid late.
I also think that Mr Ls borrowing history  might have suggested to Sunny  that it was likely his 
finances were under  strain,  and that he was most  likely borrowing to support  his day to day 
living costs  and debt repayments rather than for a one-off emergency. Mr L continued to 
reborrow in a way that suggested  a long-term  dependence on expensive short-term credit. 
And when  a consumer  borrows  numerous  loans over a long period of time, its most likely 
that the loans  arent being used  for their intended  purpose of temporary cash flow problems. 
As Sunny will know, the FCA made it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs of high cost lending  
firms that a high volume of relending..may  be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending 
patterns. And I think that is the case here.
So, I think that Sunny needs to pay Mr L some compensation  relating to Loans 5 to 11. So 
Sunny should  put things right as follows.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid on Loans 5 to 11 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on the refunds from the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove adverse entries  about  Loan 5 from Mr Ls credit  file; and
remove all entries about  Loans 6 to 11 from Mr Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN08562065my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr L paid on Loans 5 to 11 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on the refunds from the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
2.Remove all adverse entries  about Loan 5 from Mr Ls credit file; and
3.Remove all entries about Loans 6 to 11 from Mr Ls credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0856206