K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of a total mortgage protection plan (TMPP).
Although Mr P took out his mortgage  with a different  business,  Halifax is responsible for 
dealing with his complaint. So to keep things simpler, Ill just refer to Halifax  as the seller. 
background
In 2004 Mr P took out a TMPP. The policy included PPI to protect his mortgage repayments 
in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment. It also provided  life cover and critical 
illness cover.  
When Mr P complained to Halifax about the PPI, Halifax  didnt agree the policy had been 
mis-sold to him. Mr P was unhappy  with this response and so we investigated. Our 
adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint.   
Mr P disagrees with our adjudicators view.  His main complaint is that he couldnt  claim on 
the policy as he was self-employed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. 
Halifax cant show me anything signed  by Mr P that shows how he took out PPI. But, we 
already know from looking  at other cases what the process was when  Halifax  sold a TMPP. 
And weve seen examples  of the paperwork Mr P wouldve had to fill in and some of the 
paperwork recording discussions that Mr P had with the advisor  he spoke to about arranging  
his mortgage and the TMPP.
Ive no reason to think that Halifax wouldnt have followed its normal sales  process. So 
I think its likely that PPI was discussed  and recommended for him. This means that Mr P 
wouldve been made aware  it was up to him to choose if he wanted  to add PPI to his 
account. On balance, it seems likely to me that Mr P was persuaded of the benefits of 
protecting his mortgage monthly repayments and he decided  to buy PPI. 
As Halifax advised Mr P to take out the policy it had to check that it was suitable for him.
PPI wouldve  covered his mortgage repayments  for up to 12 months per claim if Mr P was off 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment.  I think this couldve been  a useful benefit 
for Mr P as he told us that he didnt have any other means to rely on if he couldnt  work.  
Ref: DRN02847472Mr P couldve made repeated claims on the policy giving him long term cover for his 
mortgage. Having  PPI meant Mr P could be sure hed always be able to keep up the monthly 
repayments in order to protect his home.  I think that wouldve been an important 
consideration at the time. So I can see why Mr P mightve wanted PPI  even if hes 
forgotten this now. I find the PPI was a suitable recommendation for him. 
Ive taken into account that Mr P was self-employed. Ive looked carefully at the policy  
wording and I dont  find that it wouldve been any harder  for him to make  a claim under the 
policy than it wouldve been  for someone who was employed. And it doesnt look as if Mr P 
was affected by any of the other  main  conditions that mightve  limited  the policys  benefits to 
him. So, even if not everything was mentioned, I dont think  that knowing more about things 
the policy didnt  cover wouldve made  any difference  to Mr Ps decision to take it out. 
Possibly some information  Halifax gave  Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI and so appears to have wanted this type of cover.  
Taking into account the cost and the monthly benefit that would be paid if a successful  claim 
was made  I think the policy offered a worthwhile  benefit to Mr P. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
it was unaffordable for him when he took it out. And he couldve cancelled  the PPI at any 
time if he decided he no longer  wanted  to pay for it  as it appears he did in the year after 
taking it out. 
Its possible there mightve been  some failings in the way PPI was sold to Mr P. But I think 
he still wouldve decided to buy the PPI even if hed been better informed as it offered Mr P 
useful protection  in his particular situation.  I dont think  better  information  wouldve stopped  
him buying the PPI.  
In coming to my decision Ive taken carefully  into account everything Mr P has said in 
response to the adjudicators view  in particular  about what  happened when he tried to 
claim under the policy. 
But Halifax  says theres no record of Mr P trying  to make a claim on this particular  policy 
when it was in force. And I think that if he had tried to claim on this policy,  its unlikely  that 
Halifax wouldve told Mr P that being self-employed meant he couldnt claim  when it seems 
clear to me from the policy wording that he could have claimed if the policy was still running.  
I dont doubt that Mr P is sure about what  hes told us. But I have to look at everything and 
decide what I think is most likely. What he says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold his mis-sale complaint. 
Overall, based on all the information  Ive seen, I havent seen enough  to show that Mr P has 
lost out as a result of anything that Halifax mightve done wrong. So it doesnt  need to do 
anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN02847473my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0284747