K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Miss E complain that they were  mis-sold  a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Bank of Scotland plc (BoS).
background
Mr G and Miss E took out a mortgage  with BoS in 2002. Around  the same  time they also 
bought a PPI policy  which would have  covered  their mortgage repayments for up to a year at 
a time if Mr G wasnt able to work due to an accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment.
Mr G and Miss E say that the policy wasnt suitable  for Mr G. They say they thought it was 
commonplace and necessary to have  PPI.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr G and Miss Es complaint should be upheld. Mr G and Miss E 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
Mr G and Miss E have raised a number of complaints about the way their PPI complaint has 
been handled by BoS. I am not able to deal with this side of their complaint and I understand 
that they have  raised these issues directly with BoS.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr G and Miss 
Es complaint. Ill explain why.
When BoS first looked at Mr G and Miss Es complaint it wasnt  sure how the policy was 
sold, so it worked on the basis  that it was sold in a branch in a face to face meeting. This 
would have held BoS to a higher  standard for the sale, so I understand why it initially did this 
 to be as fair as possible to Mr G and Miss E. 
But Mr G provided evidence that the sale took place by post. Mr G says that there was no 
phone call. I have  no reason to doubt Mr G, so I have worked  on this basis.  
Mr G and Miss E dont dispute  they agreed  to buy the PPI but they indicate that they thought  
they had to have it. They  say they thought it was commonplace and necessary to buy PPI. 
They havent  indicated  what BoS might have  done to make  them  think  it was necessary. Mr 
G and Miss E provided  a copy of the PPI sales letter  they received from BoS. There is no 
suggestion in this letter that the PPI is compulsory, or a condition  of the mortgage. If they 
hadnt responded to it, the PPI wouldnt have started   not least because it required a 
separate direct debit  mandate to be completed for the premiums to be collected.  
The mortgage application form makes no mention of PPI and nor does the mortgage offer 
letter. If the PPI had been compulsory, I think it would have been detailed  as part of the 
conditions.
Ref: DRN07417882So, on the information I have available to me, I am satisfied Mr G and Miss E bought the PPI 
knowing they had a choice about it. If they felt it was necessary  or compulsory, I dont  think 
this was as a result of anything BoS did wrong.
BoS didnt give Mr G and Miss E any personal  advice about  buying the PPI, so it didnt have 
to take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for them.  Mr G says that BoS didnt tell 
him that his employer  would have still paid him if he was off sick. But it wasnt  BoSs 
responsibility to tell him this and, indeed, it wouldnt have known what Mr Gs employer 
provided in the event  of sickness. Mr G and Miss E were responsible for deciding whether 
the policy met their needs.
Having said this, BoS was responsible for making  sure Mr G and Miss E had all the 
information they needed to make an informed decision. Its possible that BoS didnt do this. I 
only have available  one page of the sales letter so I cant be sure what information  Mr G and 
Miss E were given. The letter refers  to enclosed information  but I dont have a copy of this. 
But although  its possible  Mr G and Miss E didnt get all the information  they ideally should  
have done, this doesnt mean I should  automatically uphold their complaint. Instead, I need 
to consider whether they would have acted differently and not bought  the policy if theyd  had 
all the information  they should have done.
I dont think it would  have  made a difference. I say this because  Mr G was eligible for the 
policy and wasnt affected by any of the terms which might have made it more difficult for 
him to make  a successful  claim  such as those  related to existing medical  conditions  or 
self-employment. Mr G and Miss E say they had adequate provision from their own 
resources to meet their mortgage payments if Mr G couldnt work.  But I think  Mr G and Miss 
E would at least have  understood the basics of the PPI  that it would meet  their mortgage  
repayments if Mr G couldnt work   even if they didnt understand all the finer detail. So it 
was up to Mr G and Miss E to decide  if their existing provision  was all that they required.  
Mr G and Miss E say they werent  told the cost. I can see from the sales  letter sent to them  
that the way the premium was calculated  was explained - £6.01 for every £100  of cover. Mr 
G and Miss E elected  to have £350  of cover, so the premium was about  £21 a month, which  
BoS has provided internal screenshots to show. I cant  be sure Mr G and Miss E were told 
the precise premium,  but I think it was simple  enough  for them  to be able to make  the 
calculation themselves. The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar policies on 
the market around  the same time. It was flexible because it could be amended  or cancelled  
at any time. So I dont think if Mr G and Miss E had more information about the cost it would 
have prevented them from taking the policy. 
On balance, on the information  available  to me, I dont think Mr G and Miss E lost out as a 
result of anything BoS might have done  wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr G and Miss Es complaint so it follows that Bank  of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Miss E 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 January  2020.
Ref: DRN07417883S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0741788