K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that HDI Global Specialty SE declined his claim for subsidence on his home 
insurance as it said it had been  caused  by faulty  workmanship. 
Mr J has been represented by his daughter, Miss J, throughout the complaint. However for 
ease of reading, references  to Mr J include  the actions of Miss J.
background
Mr J took out a home insurance policy with HDI in 2016. In 2018  he noticed cracks  in one of 
the extensions  to the property and he made a claim under the subsidence cover.
Mr J instructed his own structural engineer to inspect the problem. The engineer produced  a 
report, identifying  some broken pipes as the potential cause of the subsidence. However  he 
also commented that the extension was built on foundations that were too shallow. He said 
this would have  been part of the cause.
Mr J gave this report  to HDI and its loss adjuster reviewed it. After asking the engineer a 
number of questions, HDIs loss adjuster concluded that cover wouldnt be provided under 
the policy. The loss adjuster said the damage was caused by poorly  constructed  foundations 
that wouldnt meet building regulations, so would be excluded  from cover due to poor 
workmanship.
Mr J didnt think this was fair as he said there were two extensions on the property  both 
built at the same time. He said the one near the damaged pipes had cracks,  whereas the 
other didnt,  so the likely  cause is the broken pipes. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended that the complaint was upheld. 
He said that the engineers report suggested  further investigation should be carried out to 
determine the cause of the subsidence but HDI hadnt done this. He also said that as the 
extension was built more  than 50 years ago, its likely  that the building  regulations would be 
different from now. He therefore said HDI hadnt done enough to prove that the exclusion 
applies.
HDI didnt agree with our investigator. It said it didnt feel it was necessary to inspect the 
property as the report provided  enough  detail. Further, it said that there is no evidence  that 
water was escaping  from the broken pipe and there  wasnt enough evidence that this was 
the primary cause of the subsidence. It also said there were  cracks that had been  filled on 
the extension, so the damage  would have been ongoing for a long time. Finally,  it said it 
couldnt draw comparisons between the two extensions  as it had no information  about the 
depths of the foundations of the second one. HDI asked  for the complaint to be reviewed  by 
an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HDI says that Mr Js claim wouldnt be covered  under  the policy as the subsidence was 
caused by the foundations on the extension  being  built too shallow. The policy states  a 
number of exclusions to the subsidence cover,  including:
Ref: DRN07290882Loss or damage arising from defective design, defective materials or faulty workmanship.
and Loss or damage  caused by compaction  of infill or Settlement,  shrinkage or expansion of 
the Building
HDI says that the extension has been settling since it was built,  due to the poor foundations 
so the reason for the subsidence is the poor workmanship  when the extension was built. I 
need to decide if HDI has acted fairly and reasonably by applying  this exclusion in this case.
When making an insurance claim, its the insureds responsibility to prove theres an insured 
peril  in this case subsidence. Mr J instructed a structural  engineer to produce  a report and 
this concluded  there  was subsidence. HDI dont dispute this. I am therefore satisfied that an 
insured peril has been proved. 
The next step is for the insurer to deal with the claim or prove that cover  cant  be provided 
due to an exclusion or limitation  in the policy. In this case  HDI has said that the primary 
cause of the subsidence is insufficient foundations on the extension. 
As HDI didnt send out its own engineer  to assess the damage,  the only evidence  I have  
available is the report and photos provided by Mr Js engineer. The report  states  as follows:
The foundations have been installed at too shallow  a depth and also in areas onto top soil 
and organic material. The broken pipe has exacerbated  the situation  with the damp  condition  
washing areas of soil away and allowing the organic material to rot. This will lead to the 
foundation dropping at this area and allow the extension to rotate and pull away  from the 
original property.
This suggests that there  are two likely causes of the subsidence   the foundations and the 
broken pipe. However the report is inconclusive as to which the primary and most damaging 
cause was. When asked  by HDI, the engineer comment further on this. He said:
We believe the initial cause of the damage  to be the broken drain. Without the broken drain 
there appears to be no reason for the void to have opened up. Without  further investigations 
to determine the footings  of the original house and the south elevation  we would not be able 
to state a percentage of damage caused  by the damaged drain.
It is worth noting that no further investigations  were carried  out by HDI.
From the report and engineers further  comments, HDIs loss adjuster  concluded that the 
claim would be excluded  under the policy. It said that the subsidence wouldnt have occurred 
if the building had appropriate foundations, even with the broken pipe. 
I have considered this and I dont think HDI has done enough to prove the exclusion  applies 
in this case. Mr Js engineer specifically said that he believes  the damage is due to the 
broken pipe. And suggests further  investigation  is necessary. As this is the only evidence  
available, I find it difficult to understand how HDIs loss adjuster could come to the 
conclusion that the foundations were the main cause. There  appears to be more evidence  
that it was the drain, as this is the belief of the engineer that inspected  the site.
HDI has said that the extensions foundations are too shallow and it wouldnt meet 
requirements laid out in building  regulations which would prove it was poor workmanship. 
However Mr J says the extension was built in the 1950s. HDI havent provided  a copy of 
Ref: DRN07290883building regulations during this time, but its likely they were  different to those today. So it 
isnt possible to be sure that the building didnt meet the regulations  at the time.  Further,  
without knowing what the regulations were  at the time, I dont think its fair or reasonable for 
HDI to suggest that the foundations dont meet the regulations. As it doesnt know what the 
regulations were.
Also considering the extension was built in the 1950s, it has stood, without fault,  for at least  
60 years.  If the foundations were defective,  I wouldnt have  expected the building to stay 
standing without problems  for such a long period of time. I therefore think the very fact the 
extension was built at least 60 years ago, and has remained standing, suggests that the 
foundations were not defective. I therefore  dont agree HDI has done enough to prove  the 
exclusion applies here.
Further Mr J has pointed out that there  is another extension to the property that was built at 
the same  time. This extension hasnt  experienced cracking. This suggests that the broken 
pipe is the primary cause of the subsidence,  as this appears to be the only difference. 
HDI has said it isnt possible to know for certain that the other  extension  has the same 
problem with its foundations. It could be that the foundations  on that extension were less 
shallow. I agree, it isnt possible  to know  this based on the information we have. This is 
probably why the engineer suggested  further  investigation. Had HDI carried out further 
investigation it may have  been able to provide further information about  the foundations  and 
made more  clear conclusions about the cause  of the subsidence. 
However I have to make a decision on what is most  likely based on the evidence I do have. 
In this case, given  the extensions were built at the same time, it seems most likely  they 
would have had the same foundations.  And, as one extension has developed subsidence 
and the other hasnt,  this suggests the primary cause of the subsidence  is not the 
foundations but something else. 
Looking at the photos of the damaged pipe, it is clear that the damage is significant.  The top 
part of the pipe has broken in two places, leaving big holes directly  exposing the water.  HDI 
has said that as the damage is at the top of the pipe, it wouldnt have caused a leak as the 
water could continue  to flow at the bottom. However given the pipes were underground, I 
think its more likely  that water would have got into the soil around the pipes through  the 
holes. Further the engineer commented as follows: The ground at this area was also 
noticeably damp  and a broken drainage pipe was encountered just out with the foundations. 
Suggesting water had leaked from the damaged  pipes to the surrounding area.
It is the responsibility of the insurer to prove that an exclusion applies to a claim. For the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think HDI have done enough to prove that the subsidence 
was caused by poor workmanship. I therefore dont agree that it is fair for it to apply the 
exclusion in this case.
HDI have also said that the photos  provided by Mr Js engineer  show  that the cracks  show 
some evidence of attempted repair as they appear  to have been filled previously.  It says that 
this means the problem  is likely  to have been  ongoing for some  time, therefore predates the 
insurance with it. Mr J says he has made  no attempts to fill the cracks as he hadnt known 
there had been  a problem  until now. I have considered this and examined the photos. I 
agree there are areas that look like theyve been  filled. However all these areas  are where  
the extension  meets the original building.  Other  cracks  away from the connections  dont 
seem to have been filled. Mr J says he hasnt done any work on the filling the cracks. And it 
Ref: DRN07290884seems likely that if he had, he would have filled all the cracks,  not just those  at the join. So I 
think its likely this isnt evidence of filling, but instead is the material  used when it was 
attached to the existing building. 
For these reasons I dont  think  HDI has treated Mr J fairly by declining  his claim. I will 
therefore require  it to consider the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions without 
applying the exclusions  for poor workmanship or pre-existing damage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr Js complaint. I require HDI Global Specialty SE to 
consider Mr Js claim in line with the policy terms and conditions  without  applying  the 
exclusions for poor workmanship or pre-existing damage.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Sophie Goodyear 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0729088