K822xcomplaint
Ms A complains  about charges applied to her account by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) and about the fact that they sold her account to a debt purchase company which 
obtained a judgment against  her.
background 
Ms A had a bank  account with Halifax which went into an unarranged  overdraft  in 2012 and 
was passed to Halifaxs Collections department. Ms A entered  into two repayment plans but 
didnt manage  to keep up with them. So the balance remained outstanding and was moved 
across to Halifaxs Consumer Debt Recovery  department.
In or around February 2013,  Ms A agreed to repay £10 each month.  Halifax froze the 
interest and fees on the account at that stage and registered a default  on Ms As credit file. 
Shortly afterwards, they sold the account  to a debt purchase company,  which  Ill call C. Ms A 
didnt manage  to keep up with the repayments  and, in 2015, C obtained a County Court 
Judgment (CCJ) against her for the outstanding  account balance.
Later, Halifax identified  some charges that shouldnt  have been applied  to the account when 
the first repayment plan was set up. They wrote to Ms A to tell her they were  going to refund 
those charges. But they said the other charges  had been applied  correctly and remained 
outstanding.
Ms A complained to Halifax in 2018. They said they hadnt done anything  wrong by selling 
the account to C. And, at that stage, they didnt identify  any errors regarding  the bank 
charges. Ms A wasnt happy with Halifaxs  response, so she asked this service  to look at the 
complaint. Part of Ms As complaint is about charges applied  to her account  from 2007 
onwards. Our investigator said that any charges  applied before 2012 were outside  our 
jurisdiction because of the amount of time which has passed. So she only looked at the 
complaint from that date onwards. 
During the investigation by this service, Halifax wrote to Ms A again, upholding her 
complaint. They said theyd reviewed her account  and realised they hadnt always taken the 
appropriate course of action. They  said they would refund charges of around £420 which 
had been applied in the period from October  2012  to April 2013  when the account was 
closed. The refund was sent to C to be applied to the outstanding  balance. That left around 
£150 outstanding on the account.
But Halifax  also identified that they could have sent Ms As account to their Recoveries team  
earlier. They  said if theyd done so in December 2012, the fees and charges would have 
stopped being applied  at that stage. In recognition  of this, they agreed to buy back  the 
outstanding balance from C and asked C to remove the CCJ. 
Halifax said they hadnt made  an error in applying the default or selling the account to C. But 
they accepted they could have applied the default  in December 2012 and that, if theyd done  
so, it would have  expired  by now. So they said they would  remove  the default from Ms As 
credit file. 
And they paid £200 to Ms A as an acknowledgment of the distress and inconvenience  the 
situation had caused.
Ref: DRN03838152Our investigator thought this was a fair outcome and that Halifax  had done  enough  to put 
things right. But Ms A didnt agree. She didnt think the compensation was enough. And she 
said the CCJ still hadnt been removed.  
Halifax looked into it and found that C hadnt  actioned their request to remove  the CCJ. 
Halifax again asked  C to remove it, but said they have no control over whether C does so or 
not. They still thought the compensation  of £200  was fair.
But Ms A remained unhappy  that the CCJ hadnt been removed. She says its Halifaxs  
responsibility to ensure  this happens. She says Halifax made mistakes by adding charges to 
her account  which  shouldnt have been  applied and then selling the account to C with those  
charges in place.  C then obtained a CCJ which she says has affected  her credit file and 
prevented her from obtaining  credit.  She wants the CCJ removed and for Halifax  to pay 
more compensation  to recognise the negative impact the situation has had. Ms A asked for 
her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman so its been passed to me for a decision.  
Before writing this decision, I raised  some queries with Halifax.  They  confirmed that they 
have now bought Ms As account  back from C. And theyve written  off the outstanding 
balance of around £150. So there is no outstanding balance  and nothing  left for Ms A to pay. 
But the CCJ remains in place. Halifax say theyve asked C to remove  it but that C isnt willing 
to do so at the moment. I asked Halifax if theyd be willing  to pay some  further  compensation 
to Ms A and they said they would pay a further £500. Ms A has had some  time to consider 
the proposal but, as she hasnt accepted it, Im now making a final decision on this 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with our investigator that we can 
only look back as far as 2012  when considering this complaint. So Im not looking into events 
which happened or charges which were applied before  that.
Dealing first with the CCJ, Im satisfied  that Halifax asked C to remove it but that C hasnt 
done so to date.  Im not looking into the actions of C here, so I cant ask C to take any steps 
in relation to the CCJ. That may be something which Ms A wishes  to pursue  with C directly. 
But Im only looking at the actions of Halifax. And, as the CCJ is in Cs favour, Halifax 
doesnt have the standing  to amend or remove it. So I cant direct  Halifax to do that. But I 
can look at the debt which Halifax sold to C and whether they acted fairly in doing that.
Although not all of the debt which was sold to C was made  up of charges, I find that the 
majority of it was. Without the charges, I find it unlikely that the account  would  have been  
treated in the same way by Halifax.  Thats because  Ms As spending was generally within 
(albeit close to) her overdraft limit until October  2012. So I think  it unlikely the account would 
have been viewed as a problem (and subsequently  sold to C) if charges hadnt  been applied 
from that point. But charges  were applied and they significantly increased the debt. 
Even if the account  had been sold with the much lower amount outstanding, its not 
necessarily the case that C would have pursued it through the courts. And, even if it had, the 
amount of the judgment would have  been  much lower than it is now.
Halifax accept that most  of the charges which make up the debt shouldnt  have been 
applied. Theyve  refunded  the charges from October 2012 onwards.  But, if those charges 
Ref: DRN03838153hadnt been applied in the first place, Ms A wouldnt  have been asked to pay them.  And they 
wouldnt have been treated as a debt which was due for payment. So, without the charges 
being incorrectly applied,  its difficult to see how Ms A would be in the situation shes  in now.  
Shes been pursued for a debt which, in large part, wasnt  due. A CCJ has been entered 
against her for that debt. And it seems that Ms A will only be able to get the CCJ amended  or 
removed through  considerable  effort on her part and possibly through  dealings with C.
Ms A also says the CCJ has hampered her financial position. Shes provided some 
information about overdraft applications she made  which were declined.  But the information 
shes provided relates to applications made  in 2010, which  is before  the CCJ was entered.  
So I dont  find that these overdrafts were declined  because  of the CCJ. And the default 
hadnt been entered on Ms As credit file by that time either. So I dont find it to be Halifaxs 
fault that these  applications were declined.
Ms A has provided a copy of her credit  report from 2015. This shows the default and the 
CCJ. Ms A says this proves that she wasnt offered  any overdrafts or loans from that time.  I 
understand that Ms A feels strongly about this. But I havent seen any evidence that she 
applied for credit (other than the overdrafts in 2010) or that it was declined because  of the 
default or CCJ. So I cant fairly ask Halifax to do anything about that.
But I dont doubt  that the situation has had a significant impact  on Ms A and caused her a 
great deal of stress over a number  of years. So Im going to make an award here. As I 
explained above, I cant direct Halifax to remove the CCJ because its not held in their name.  
And Im satisfied theyve  asked C to do this. So the only way I can ask Halifax to try and put 
things right here is by paying compensation to Ms A. Theyve already paid £200 and theyve 
written off the outstanding balance on the account.  But I dont think thats enough to 
recognise the position Ms As been  put in. Taking  everything into account, I think a further 
compensation payment of £500  would be appropriate here.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) 
should pay further compensation of £500 to Ms A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0383815