K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs W bought the policy  in 1998, at the same  time as taking out a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Ws credit card application  had a section for optional features  extras  she didnt  have 
to take if she didnt want to. There was a brief overview of what  PPI was for and what  it cost, 
with two tick boxes  to choose  from: one to buy PPI and one to turn it down. The box to buy 
PPI was ticked, and the one to turn it down was left blank. And Mrs W signed  the application 
to confirm her choices. So I think that Lloyds made  Mrs W aware  she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs W or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Lloyds if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mrs W Ive assumed they did. That 
means Lloyds had to check  the PPI was right for her  and based on what Ive seen  of her 
circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For example, Mrs W wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI. While  she had some  benefits through work,  the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of those,  and it wouldve been especially useful when her benefits 
reduced to just half pay  a serious  drop in income. I also understand Mrs W had some other 
different types  of insurances, but those wouldve covered different things to what the PPI did, 
so it doesnt look like they were relevant here. Overall, it seems  the PPI couldve been useful 
for Mrs W in case she was off sick or lost her job.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mrs W about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Here, Mrs W chose to take out the policy - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the policys  main  
exclusions or limitations, and it could  have been useful for Mrs W if something went  wrong. 
And it was paid on a rolling monthly  basis, so Mrs W could cancel the PPI at any time 
without a penalty. Taking everything together, I dont think  better information about the PPI 
was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN06338272my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0633827