K820x#14Complaint
Ms R complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited (trading as Barclays  Partner  
Finance), has rejected the claim she made  under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the CCA) in relation to a solar panel  system she says was misrepresented to her by 
the supplier.
Background
In or around February 2015,  Ms R was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
S to discuss purchasing  a solar panel  system to be installed at her home. After being 
visited by a representative from S at her home, Ms R decided  to purchase the solar panels  
with a 4 year interest free fixed sum loan from Barclays Partner  Finance  (BPF).  The solar 
panels were subsequently  installed at her home. Ms R says that S told her that the solar 
panel system would  make  significant savings on her electricity bills, and those savings 
alongside the feed-in tariff (FIT) payments would cover the costs of her monthly loan 
repayments meaning that the system would be self-funding. Ms R says this has not turned 
out to be the case.
In September  2018, Ms R, via her representative,  made a claim under section 75 of the CCA 
to BPF. Ms R said what S had told her about  the about her solar panels being  self-funding  
was a misrepresentation, and it was this misrepresentation that had induced her to enter into 
the contract  with S. When making the section 75 claim to BPF, Ms R provided the quote for 
the system, the invoice, a leaflet titled How it works, a copy  of the credit  agreement,  her 
EPC certificate, her MCS certificate and copies of her FIT statements and electricity  bills 
from her energy provider.
In its final response letter  BPF said Ms Rs solar panels were performing better than the 
estimates she had been provided and that there  was no evidence in any of the information it 
had been provided to support that she was told that her monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the savings and FIT payments.
Unhappy with this response,  Ms R referred her complaint to this service.  One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. They concluded, similarly to BPF,  that the 
solar panel  system hadnt been  misrepresented to Ms R.
Ms R, vis her representative, didnt accept  the investigators view. In summary  the 
representative said:
There had been a number of similar  complaints involving BPF and S, where BPF had 
made offers to settle the complaints and they considered  Ms Rs complaint to be no 
different.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
Ref: DRN03799192and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good  industry  practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes  section  56 (s56)  and s75 of the CCA. S75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or service bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly  be jointly and severally  liable to the 
debtor.
As Ms R paid for the solar  panels  with a fixed sum loan, BPF agrees that s75 applies to the 
transaction. This means that Ms R could claim  against BPF  the creditor  for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  by S in the same way she could have claimed 
against the S, the supplier. So, Ive taken s75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S56 is also relevant.  This is because it says that any negotiations  between Ms R and S, as 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted  by S as an agent of BPF.
Ms Rs representative has said that there have been a number  of complaints similar to Ms 
Rs, involving S and BPF. In these similar cases BPF has made  an offer to settle  the 
complaint. The representative considers Ms Rs complaint  to be no different to these.
My role is to decide individual complaints,  in this case  Ms Rs, based  on the evidence that 
has been provided by all parties and taking account  of the particular circumstances. Ive 
gone on to explain, based on the available evidence and wider surrounding circumstances, 
whether I think BPF should take any further steps  to resolve Ms Rs complaint.
Ms Rs recollections of the sale
Ive carefully considered  the initial letter of complaint from Ms Rs representative. This letter  
says:
Our client was advised that the electricity which was generated by the system would lead to 
them being  paid the feed-in tariff which would generate more than enough income  to pay the 
cost of purchasing  the system.
It then goes on to say:
The salesperson was adamant about this being  a self-funding system which  would pay for 
itself through the income and savings it would generate.
and:
On the basis that the system would be self-funding as income from the feed-in tariff and 
electricity savings would cover the monthly finance payments they agreed to purchase the 
system at a cost of £6,495.00.
Prior to issuing her view,  our investigator  asked the representative for Ms Rs recollection of 
what she was told at the time of sale. It replied:
Ref: DRN03799193Our client has confirmed that they were  told the payments we received  from our energy 
provider offsetting  the cost.  This has not been the case. She recalls seeing a folder with a 
presentation and him going  through figures  showing how the solar panels would pay for 
themselves. She also confirms that they made  the purchase because the salesman 
convinced them they would not be out of pocket in doing so.
Having considered this, I think  there are some  inconsistencies  between Ms Rs 
recollections, as raised in the initial letter of complaint via the representative, and the 
subsequent recollections made before our investigator issued her view. 
The representative refers  to the system being  self-funded by virtue  of the monthly  loan 
repayments being covered by the FIT income  and electricity savings, whereas in the same 
letter it refers to the system generating enough income to pay for the cost of purchasing the 
system. So, I think there are some inconsistencies  in the initial letter of complaint to BPF as 
it isnt clear whether  Ms R was led to believe that the benefits  from the solar  panels would 
cover her monthly  loan repayments or, that the system would pay for itself overall.
Ive also taken into account that in her more recent recollection, Ms R refers to the payments 
she would  receive  offsetting the cost rather than covering her monthly loan repayments.
Based on Ms Rs submissions alone,  Im not satisfied that they are sufficient enough  to 
persuade me that there was a misrepresentation by S. Having said that, Ms Rs recollection  
of what she was told a number of years  ago, doesnt  necessarily mean that there  wasnt a 
misrepresentation at the time of sale. So, Ive gone  on to consider the documentation that 
was provided to BPF at the time the initial claim was submitted.
The documentation
Ive reviewed all the documentation  that has been provided by all parties.  This includes the 
loan agreement, the system quote  and the leaflet  titled How it works. Ive considered 
whether this contained any information to have supported, or countered, that Ms R was led 
to believe that the solar  panels would pay for themselves over the term of her loan.
Firstly, Ive considered the loan agreement.  This sets out the amount being borrowed, the 
interest to be charged, total amount payable,  the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly loan repayments. This has been signed by Ms R. Im satisfied that this is clear and 
there is no reference to the solar panel system  being self-funded.  I have noted that this 
makes no reference to any potential savings and income from the solar panel system so I 
dont think it wouldve allowed Ms R to compare the cost of the system to any benefit she 
may receive.
Ive gone on to look at the Solar Electricity Systems  Quotation. This sets out the expected  
number of kWh that the solar panels  would  generate  a year. It goes on to show how the 
system performance broken down by the income Ms R could expect to receive by way of FIT 
income and electricity savings. It also shows the overall cost of the system as well as some 
technical information. This document makes no reference to the loan costs  so, again, I dont 
think it wouldve allowed Ms R to compare  the loan costs to any benefit she may receive.
The final document Ive considered is called How it works  and I consider this document  as 
key in the particular circumstances of this individual complaint. This document  sets out the 
solar panel  system size, the expected annual number of kWh to be produced by the solar 
Ref: DRN03799194panels and the expected income from FIT payments and electricity savings in the first year 
and over the lifetime  of the solar  panels. Ive noted  that the figures provided on here are 
slightly higher than those used in the Solar  Electricity Systems Quotation. 
The figures written down on the How it works document shows  that Ms R estimated FIT 
income in the first year would be £418.82 and her estimated  electricity  savings in the first 
year would be £218.87. So, a total estimated income of £637.69. It then shows  that the FIT 
income over 20 years  would be £8,376 and the electricity savings over 30 years would be 
£5,471.75 with an overall income of £13,847.50.
Underneath this part of the document there are a further four handwritten figures.  The first 
two figures are written  within the below printed text:
Total cash price for solar  £6,495 Total price including  interest  £135.31
Beneath these are written  10,076.40 and £83.97. I consider these figures to be key to 
deciding this complaint. 
Ms R decided to purchase the solar panels with a 4 year interest  free fixed  sum loan from 
BPF. Her contractual  monthly payments under her loan agreement were  £135.31.  This ties 
in with the figures in the above document. My understanding is the figures written below this, 
10,076.40 and £83.97 were the total amount  payable and the monthly loan repayment  if 
Ms R had decided to purchase  the solar panels with a 10 year, interest bearing, fixed sum 
loan agreement.
On balance, Im satisfied that this shows that a conversation took place  between  Ss 
representative and Ms R about  the finance  options available  to purchase the solar panels. 
And I think,  as this document  shows the estimated annual benefits  Ms R could expect to 
receive, with her monthly  loan repayments,  it shows that the monthly loan repayments 
wouldnt be covered  by the expected  income from her solar  panels. Im satisfied that this 
document would  be sufficient  to counter any verbal  misrepresentation  that may have been 
made by the representative of S to Ms R that her solar panel system would be self-funding  
over the 4 year term of her loan. 
I think it would have  been reasonable for Ms R to have questioned and challenged any 
verbal misrepresentation made based  on the figures  provided on this document  as it 
illustrates that her monthly loan repayments  wouldnt  be covered by the annual  benefit she 
could expect to receive.  I say this as it shows her expected  annual  benefit from the solar 
panels would be £637.69 whereas her chosen monthly loan repayments would be £1,626.16  
a year.
Im also of the view that this document supports Ms Rs later recollection  of the sale that she 
had been led to believe that the system would be self-funding but not over a particular period 
of time. Based on the figures that were  provided by the representative, Ms R has been 
receiving an annual benefit from the solar  panels  by way of FIT and electricity  savings  of 
around £730. So, Ms R could expect her solar panel  system to pay for itself in around 9 
years. And based on this, I do not think that the benefits of the solar panel  system were 
misrepresented to her.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that the paperwork  provided by S, in particular the document  titled 
How it works, would  have  been sufficient to counter  any verbal misrepresentation that may 
have been made by S representative.
Ref: DRN03799195My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Rs complaint against Clydesdale  Financial 
Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2021.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0379919