K822xcomplaint
Ms T complains that Advanced Payment  Solutions, trading as Cashplus, reported a debt 
management plan on her credit file when it should  have recorded  a payment arrangement. 
She also complains that, despite settling the debt, the business  continued  to report  it to the 
credit reference agencies.
background 
Ms T agreed a payment  arrangement with Advanced Payment Solutions to pay off her credit  
card debt. The plan saw her pay three instalments and the debt was repaid in full in 
December 2017.
But Advanced Payment Solutions wrongly recorded the debt, in October 2017, as being part 
of a debt management plan. They should have reported it as a payment arrangement.  And 
they also failed  to remove the plan from Ms Ts credit file in December 2017.  Ms T says it 
was still being  reported in October 2018.
Ms T complained that this resulted in her being  declined for a job in November 2017 and that 
its prevented her getting credit.  
Advanced Payment Solutions  apologised for their error and informed the credit reference 
agencies of the correct status  towards  the end of 2018. They  offered Ms T £50 to 
compensate her for the error they had made.
But Ms T was dissatisfied with their response  so she contacted  this service. Our investigator 
considered the evidence.  She agreed  that Advanced Payment Solutions had made a 
mistake and she clarified that this error had now been amended. She went  on to consider 
the impact this had on Ms T. She didnt think the inaccurate reporting  would have had a 
significant bearing on Ms Ts job application as she noted this was in November 2017, when 
Ms T was in a payment  plan anyway, and she thought this would have had a similar impact 
on her application.
She understood that Ms T had suggested  the inaccurate reporting had caused her problems 
obtaining credit  but as Ms T had been unable to evidence this she didnt think  it would be fair 
to suggest the business  do anything about it as there was no evidence of any loss. But she 
did think it was clear  that the business  had inconvenienced Ms T and she didnt feel the 
compensation theyd  awarded was fair. She thought £150 would be more reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Neither Ms T nor Advanced  Payment Solutions  responded  to the investigators  view so the 
complaint has been referred to an ombudsman to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN06628432Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I can see that Advanced  Payment Solutions  have accepted responsibility for the mistake 
they made and have  now rectified it.
Its clear that they recorded the wrong  information and for much longer than was necessary. 
But whilst I can understand it must  have  been  distressing for Ms T to find out this was the 
case, Ive not been provided  with any evidence of the loss shes  incurred.
Theres been no evidence  of failed credit applications and as the investigator has 
highlighted, regardless  of the inaccurate  reporting of a debt management plan, a repayment  
arrangement would have been  on Ms Ts file in November 2017  when she had her interview. 
If the presence of a debt management  plan was sufficient for her to lose out on the new role 
I think its most likely  a payment arrangement would have had a similar impact.
But the business should compensate Ms T fairly for the distress and inconvenience  this 
matter has caused  her and I agree with the investigator that £50 is insufficient  in the 
circumstances and £150 is more realistic and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited to pay Ms T £150  to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
their actions have caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0662843