K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her payment  protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mrs G bought the policy in 1993 at the same time as taking out a credit card. She says PPI 
wasnt discussed and she doesnt  recall getting any paperwork  about it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Gs complaint didnt uphold it. Mrs G disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint . Ill explain why.
Mrs G says the PPI was sold in a meeting  and she doesnt remember it being discussed.  
BoS says the credit  card and PPI were taken out by post. Looking at the application form 
Mrs G completed, I think its likely this was a postal  application.  Theres a section for PPI in 
the form called Credit Cover Insurance and theres  a box to tick if an applicant  wants PPI. 
Mrs Gs form has been  ticked and YES is written in the box for PPI. So, although this isnt 
how Mrs G remembers  things (which isnt surprising  so many years later),  I think  she wanted 
PPI at the time and knew she had a choice  about it  if she hadnt wanted it, she couldve left 
the box for PPI empty
Mrs G cant remember  if BoS recommended the PPI to her, and BoS says it didnt. Since I 
think this was a postal application,  I dont  think anyone from BoS wouldve given Mrs G a 
tailored recommendation to buy the PPI. This means BoS didnt need to make  sure it was 
right for her. But BoS did need to give Mrs G enough clear  information about the policy for 
her to be able to make her own decision about whether she wanted it.
Because the PPI was sold so long ago, BoS hasnt  been able to give us the policy terms for 
the policy Mrs G took out. So Ive considered what we know  generally  about PPI policies 
BoS sold over a longer period of time. 
Based on this, I think its unlikely BoS gave Mrs G all the clear  information it shouldve. So 
Ive thought about whether clearer information wouldve put Mrs G off buying the policy. But I 
dont think it wouldve because:
It seems  likely Mrs G was eligible for the policy. And I havent seen anything about        
Mrs Gs circumstances to make  me think shed have  been affected by some of the 
common exclusions we often see in these policies. So I think  she couldve claimed 
the full policy  benefit if shed needed  to.
Mrs G says shed only have got statutory sick pay if she was unwell and unable  to 
work. So I think the PPI, which  wouldve helped with her monthly card payments for 
at least 12 months  for each successful claim she made, couldve been  of use to her 
Ref: DRN03165452in these circumstances. And the PPI would also have helped  in the same way if    
Mrs G lost her job.
Mrs G says her partner  couldve covered  her card repayments if necessary. But this 
doesnt offer the same  protection  as an insurance  policy, since peoples  
circumstances can change.
As she paid for this policy  by a monthly premium, if her circumstances changed  or 
she no longer wanted  the policy, Mrs G couldve  cancelled it at any time without 
losing out.
So, based  on what Ive been told about Mrs Gs circumstances and the likely  policy  terms, it 
looks like the PPI couldve been useful to her. This means that, even though its likely BoS 
didnt make everything as clear as it shouldve done, I dont think Mrs G has lost out because 
of this. So I dont  think BoS needs  to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0316545