K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Scottish  Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon)  failed  to provide her with 
sufficient information  on the options  available to her when she wanted to withdraw a cash  
lump sum from her pension  fund.  As a result she has incurred an increased  income  tax 
liability.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
April 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms  part of this final decision, so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  Aegon has said that it accepts 
my provisional decision. Ms B has provided me with some more information  about her 
income tax situation  and the tax that was deducted from her pension payment.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have reached the 
same conclusions as those I set out in my provisional decision.
It is entirely clear to me that by taking an Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum (UFPLS) 
Ms B has paid more  tax than she would have if she had entered into a flexi-access 
drawdown arrangement. So I understand why Ms B feels that she has lost out and that 
Aegon should refund that additional  tax to her.
But, as I set out in my provisional decision,  Ms B will not pay more tax overall on the whole 
of her pension. By taking  a UFPLS she has left some funds in her pension  that can be used  
in the future to provide  further tax free income.  By taking a UFPLS  Ms B has simply changed 
the timing of when she would  pay some  of the tax due on her pension income.
The information that Ms B has sent to me doesnt  suggest that she has needed  to pay higher 
rate tax as a result of the UFPLS payment. Although  there might have been some  higher 
rate tax deducted  at the time the payment  was first made, it seems this has been refunded to 
her by HMRC.
So I think that what I suggested, in my provisional  decision, that Aegon  needed to do to put 
things right provides  fair and reasonable compensation  for Ms B.
putting things right
It isnt possible to put Ms B back into exactly the same position shed have been in if shed 
received better information from Aegon. So the redress  I am directing  here provides in part 
for the inconvenience  that Ms B might be caused by the change  to her position.
1.If Ms B wishes to take a further  tax free withdrawal from her pension funds to either 
supplement the net amount she received  last year,  or to meet any tax liability, Aegon  
should assist her to move  the appropriate sum into a flexi-access drawdown 
Ref: DRN08334422arrangement. Aegon should  waive any limits  it might normally  apply to the amount being 
withdrawn by this method.
2.Ms B has moved some of her taxation  liability forwards. She will therefore either lose the 
use of the money she has spent  on that additional  tax for a period of time, or if she 
makes a further withdrawal will reduce the amount in her pension fund that might attract 
investment returns. I cannot quantify  that loss. But that loss will undoubtedly cause her 
trouble and upset.  I understand that Aegon has already paid Ms B the sum of £300, but 
I consider a sum of £750 is more appropriate.  So I direct that Aegon pays Ms B an 
additional £450 in compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint and direct  Scottish  Equitable Plc to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08334423EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms B complains  that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading  as Aegon) failed to provide her with sufficient 
information on the options  available to her when she wanted to withdraw a cash  lump  sum from her 
pension fund.  As a result she has incurred an increased  income tax liability.
background
Ms B held a pension fund with Aegon. In June 2018 she transferred some additional defined  
contribution benefits from a former occupational scheme into her Aegon pension. At the time she told 
Aegon that she was making this transfer because her former  occupational scheme  didnt offer her the 
ability to make lump sum withdrawals.
Once the transfer had been completed Ms B sent an email  to Aegon asking  to take a lump  sum from 
her pension  equating to 35% of the fund. Ms B noted in that email that she understood she would be 
able to take 25% of the fund tax free and the remaining  10% would  be taxable.
Ms B didnt  receive any response from Aegon and so called the company on 8 August to chase the 
progress of her request. On that call Ms B was dealt with by three separate members of Aegons staff. 
Aegon has provided recordings of the handover from the first member of staff to the second, and 
Ms Bs full conversations with the second and third staff members.
During the call Aegon discussed with Ms B what she was trying  to achieve and set out the time its 
processes would take. Ms B was annoyed  during the call to discover that Aegon hadnt logged or 
acted upon her emailed  instruction sent on 13 July. And so she was frustrated by the additional  time it 
would take to arrange the payment.
I will discuss the content  of these calls in far more  depth as part of my findings  on this complaint.  But 
by the end of the calls Ms B had added  her bank account details to Aegons online servicing system  
and been given directions  as to what she would  need to do to arrange her cash  withdrawal once her 
banking details had been  verified  by Aegon. Later that week  Ms B followed those  instructions and 
arranged for the payment  of an Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump  Sum (UFPLS).
When that payment was made, the taxation treatment was different to what Ms B was expecting and 
had described to Aegon in her email, and her telephone conversations. So she complained  to Aegon  
about what had happened. Aegon noted that it was Ms B that had provided the withdrawal instruction 
and it had acted entirely in line with that instruction. So it said that it was unable  to reverse what  had 
happened. But it did acknowledge that it could  have given Ms B better  information and made a 
payment to her of £300 as a gesture of goodwill.
Ms B didnt  think that payment was sufficient so she brought her complaint to this Service.  Her 
complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. Whilst she agreed that the information 
Aegon provided could have been clearer, she noted that ultimately it was Ms B that had provided the 
withdrawal instruction. So she thought that the £300 that Aegon had paid to Ms B was fair and 
reasonable. 
Ms B didnt  agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved  informally, it has 
been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
Ref: DRN08334424At the outset I think  it is useful to reflect  on the role of this service. This service  isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would have  been if the problem  hadnt 
occurred.
As I noted earlier, Aegon has provided us with recordings of most  of the calls it had with Ms B before 
she withdrew her lump sum. Those calls have given me a clear picture of what happened  in the lead 
up to Ms Bs online application. And having listened to the calls I am persuaded that Ms B set out for 
Aegon what she wanted  to do, very clearly and consistently,  at all stages of the discussions.
The taxation  treatment of a UFPLS is different to what would have happened if Ms B had instead 
entered into a flexi-access  drawdown arrangement. That is what  she was describing to Aegon  in both 
her email and telephone  conversations. And so I think that was the process that should  have been 
explained to Ms B. 
It also seems to me that each of the three advisors  that Ms B spoke to on 8 August also understood 
what she wanted to do. The first advisor passed Ms Bs call over to the team  that dealt with drawdown  
requests so that her request could be actioned. The second advisor told Ms B that what she was 
asking to do would need to be performed as a drawdown activity and begun to look for availability  to 
conduct a telephone review  of Ms Bs understanding  of the process.
But when booking that telephone meeting became problematic, due to Aegons teams availability and 
Ms Bs increasing frustration, the advisor  started to move Ms B down the UFPLS route.  But Ms B 
continued to be clear about  what  she wanted,  and asked a number of times for confirmation that the 
two routes would achieve the same outcome. When she received that confirmation, Ms B agreed to 
take the UFPLS  and was passed onto a third advisor.
The third advisor asked  Ms B once more for information about  what she wanted to achieve. He also 
told Ms B that he didnt think that UFPLS was the right route  to achieve what  she was asking for. But 
when Ms B once more  expressed  her frustration and said that shed  been assured  by the previous 
advisor it was the right route, the advisor  simply  explained the online process that Ms B would need to 
follow to take a UFPLS.
So whilst I accept that ultimately  Ms B selected and input the UFPLS transaction  herself, online  and 
some days after she had spoken to Aegon, I have  concluded that she only did so by following  the 
detailed and specific  instructions shed received from the third Aegon  advisor. Whilst Aegon  quite 
rightly says that it recommended that Ms B took financial advice I dont think that is sufficient  to 
absolve it of responsibility for the transaction Ms B requested.
In her conversations  with Aegon, Ms B didnt need or seek any advice on what  she could do with her 
pension fund.  She had researched and correctly  understood  the regulations and taxation allowances 
that applied to her request.  What she was asking of Aegon  was to understand  how, within the 
confines of Aegons systems and processes, she could make that transaction  happen. She had no 
need to understand the difference between taking a UFPLS and putting  her pension into a flexi-
access drawdown arrangement. She simply wanted to take 25% of her fund as tax free cash and take 
a further  withdrawal on which she knew she would need to pay income tax. It was for Aegon  to tell her 
what she needed to do within its systems to make  that happen.
By taking a UFPLS  payment Ms B has altered her taxation position. She has needed  to pay far more 
income tax on her withdrawal than she would  have  if Aegon had correctly explained  the process  she 
needed to follow. In her original complaint to Aegon Ms B said that she would need to pay higher  rate 
tax on some of her income. But from the information she has provided to us about her other income 
Im not persuaded  that is actually the case. I would  ask Ms B to provide updated information about her 
income for the relevant  tax year if she does think the additional taxable withdrawal from her pension 
has made her liable for higher rate tax.
Ref: DRN08334425If, as I suspect, Ms B didnt incur a higher  rate tax liability as a result of the withdrawal, the impact of 
the poor information from Aegon hasnt actually  increased  the amount  of tax she would need to pay 
on her pension  as a whole. But it has brought that liability  forwards. By not taking all the tax free cash 
now, Ms B has left an entitlement that she can use in the future. And it maybe that she decides to use 
some of that additional entitlement to help cover  any income tax liability  that she now faces, or to 
make up any shortfall  in the amount she received from Aegon  due to the additional  tax being  
deducted.
Ref: DRN0833442