K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr W complains about the debt on a HSBC UK Bank Plc credit card account.
background
Mr W (his son) contacted HSBC on behalf  of the estate.  His father  had passed away in 
2015. And the estate had discovered  a credit card debt.  But the majority of the balance  was 
due to interest charges. The estate said Mr W had been very unwell  in the last few years  of 
his life. He had suffered from dementia  and had been unable  to keep on top of his account. 
The estate  said it shouldve been  clear Mr Ws use of his card had altered. But HSBC  hadnt 
monitored the account. And itd allowed large amounts of interest  to accrue.  So the estate  
wanted HSBC  to remove the interest itd added  to the outstanding balance.
HSBC agreed the late Mr W had altered how he used his card. But hed still used it within 
the expected terms and conditions of the account. So it hadnt picked up on any issue.  And it 
hadnt been made aware of any concerns at the time. HSBC  apologised  for its poor service  
in responding  to the estates concerns. Itd provided feedback to the individuals involved. 
And it offered £350 compensation for the considerable delay in confirming its position. 
The estate  wasnt satisfied with HSBCs  response. So it contacted our service  and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. He could appreciate  the estates concerns. But he felt the 
interest had been  applied  correctly and in line with the terms of the account. And there  was 
nothing to suggest HSBC had been  made  aware of the late Mr Ws situation. He could see 
Mr W had continued to make the monthly payments. And he couldnt  expect  the bank to 
monitor all of its customer accounts individually.  
The estate  didnt agree.  It said banks regularly  monitor account transactions for alterations in 
behaviour as part of their fraud prevention routines. So it shouldve  picked  up on the 
changes. And its asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how upsetting this must  be for the estate  of Mr W. Theyre concerned  about  the 
outstanding balance on the late Mr Ws credit card account. And feel the majority  of the sum 
relates to interest  applied  by the bank  after Mr W became unwell and unable to manage his 
account. So Ive looked carefully at everything  the estate, and HSBC,  has said.
There are two main issues that are being  complained about. So Im going to deal with each  
in turn.
interest charged to the account
The estate  is concerned with the level of interest  added to Mr Ws account after he became 
unwell. I can see HSBC  were only able to provide statements for more recent years.  And Im 
aware banks and other businesses are only required to keep records for a certain length of 
time. But I can see the estate was able to obtain statements of Mr Ws accounts from 2006. 
Ref: DRN01474572And the estate notes  that until 2011  Mr W had been organised in paying off expenditure on 
his credit card to avoid  high interest charges. 
The estate  said Mr W had suffered from dementia  and been  in a nursing home before 
suffering a stroke in 2014.  And the annual statements from 2013 showed a very different 
picture. Mr Ws account was now attracting many hundreds of pounds  of interest charges 
each year. He was no longer clearing  his outstanding balance.
Ive looked at statements from 2013  to 2016. And I can see direct debit payments were 
made each  month for the minimum monthly payment. Interest on the remaining balance  was 
then added in line with the terms and conditions of the account. So the balance  reduced 
from over £7000 in December 2013  to under £6000 in February 2016. Ive not seen  anything  
to suggest HSBC has calculated the interest  incorrectly. So I cant  really say HSBC has 
made any mistakes in how its applied the interest  to the account  each month.  Its acted in 
line with the terms  and conditions of the account.  And Ive not seen anything to suggest 
Mr W contacted  the bank to say he was experiencing any difficulties.
monitoring the accounts
 
The estate  is unhappy HSBC didnt notice the pattern of use had changed and then either 
contact Mr W or alert a family member. But as Ive just explained Mr W continued to make  
his monthly payment  even after he became unwell. So there was nothing to suggest there 
was a problem  with the management of the account. 
I realise Mr W used  his credit card more  often before he became unwell. And he tried to pay 
off his balance  each month and avoid high interest charges. But I dont think the change in 
use was sufficient to alert HSBC that something was wrong. 
If Mr W had changed from limited  usage  to a situation where he was suddenly  using his card 
repeatedly and was then unable to meet his monthly payment requirements I mightve 
expected HSBC to contact the account holder.  But Mr W had greatly reduced his usage.  And 
he was still making payments each month  in line with the expected minimum amount. So 
while I do appreciate  what the estate is saying  I cant really say there is anything HSBC 
shouldve reacted to. Although Mr W was only making a small repayment each month  there 
were no signs of any financial  difficulty. And HSBC wasnt  aware  of his health situation.  
I do think HSBC couldve reacted more quickly and sympathetically when  the estate got in 
touch about the account.  And I can see the bank has apologised and offered £350 
compensation for its poor service. And I think thats a fair response. But based on what  Ive 
seen I cant say HSBC  has done anything wrong. It applied the interest in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account.  And there was nothing to suggest Mr W was having any 
problems in managing the account. So I wont be asking the bank to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2019.
Ref: DRN01474573Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0147457