K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Total  Home  Loans Direct Limited (THL) lent to him irresponsibly. 
He also complains that it did not send to him a final response letter after he complained to it. 
Mr W expresses  concern at an on-line  social media  invitation to connect which he says he 
received from a Director of THL in January 2018 which  was after he had complained  to it in 
December 2017.
background and findings
I attach my provisional decision dated 17 September 2019, which forms part of this final 
decision and should be read with it. In it I explained why I intended not to uphold  Mr Ws 
complaint. 
Both parties  had time to provide any further comments they may have  by 1 October 2019 
before I made a decision. This reply date was extended further to 9 October 2019. 
I have not heard from THL. Mr W has sent me additional bank statements for a different 
account for the period  around the time the loan was approved. So I have  reconsidered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory 
rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
On the issue of whether this was one or two loans, the new bank statements do not reveal  
any credits from THL on 15 November 2012 or the following month which  would clarify  this. 
So my view remains the same. And these new statements  do not alter my provisional 
findings surrounding the proportionality of the checks THL carried out at the time it approved 
the loan. Mr W declared his income as £1,700 and looking at both sets of bank statements 
these do not show  me what  his usual outgoings  were to deduct from this declared income. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  dated 17 September 2019, my 
final decision  is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision on or before 14 November 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08242932the main part of the provisional decision dated 17 September  2019
background
The background  details  to the lending relationship between Mr W and THL has been provided  to us in 
a piecemeal fashion from THL and it appears there has been some confusion  about  the number of 
loans and the dates of these  lending decisions. I address  this in the main part of my provisional 
decision.
Mr W complains  of being in a debt spiral  and that THL ought to have done proper credit checks and 
if it had it would have recognised his debt situation.  He also maintains  that additional  checks would 
have revealed his gambling  problem and potentially his health issues. I do empathise and for 
confidentiality I do not go into detail. 
THL says that the loans were repaid and that it took a loss on them.  It says it removed a great deal 
of interest to reduce  the amount Mr W had to pay. He repaid the credit owing in December  2013. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint  last year. Largely due to lack of information about the 
details of the lending  decisions and the loans, he thought that there were  two loans and Mr W was 
earning £200  a month when he applied  for the credit. So his view was that THL should not have lent 
to Mr W and it should put things right in relation to them both. THL has sent additional  evidence and 
explanations since then. The matter  remains  unresolved and has been passed to me. 
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general  approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry  
practice - on our website. 
THL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means  
that it should  have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could  repay the loans in a 
sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  a number of different things,  such as how 
much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that THL should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable  but I do not think that this applies  in Mr Ws case.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that THL was required to establish  whether  Mr W 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Ref: DRN08242933Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Office  of Fair Tradings publication on Irresponsible Lending in 2011 defined  sustainable 
as being the ability to repay without undue difficulties. In particular  the customer  should  be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
will not be able to make their repayments sustainably  if they need to borrow further in order to do that.
I have carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
final response letter  
Mr W complained to THL in December 2017 and he brought his complaint to us in March  2018.  At 
that stage  he had not received a final response letter  from THL.  He had received an 
acknowledgement of the complaint having been received. 
After this service  contacted THL it sent a final response letter to Mr W. It is undated but as it refers  to 
the fact that Mr W had already brought his complaint to this service then that must have been in 
March or April 2018.
The rules governing complaint handling do require that a business sends a final response letter  to the 
complainant within a certain time  8 weeks. It seems that in Mr Ws case, THL was outside that time 
period. But I think that the impact on Mr W was negligible.  And I say that because one of the 
important elements of final response letters is to ensure that the complainant knows that he or she 
has the right to refer their complaint to this service. Mr W already knew it as he had brought his 
complaint here. So I do not think that THLs late final response  letter  caused a detriment to Mr W and 
so I say no more about this part of the complaint. 
one or two loans?
I have seen a copy of a fixed sum agreement between the parties  dated  15 November 2012. I do not 
think there is any dispute about that loan being agreed. It was for £175 (including a £25 administration 
fee) and was for 12 days.  So the principal  sum lent was £150.  The total charge for interest was 
£52.50. The total sum repayable was £227.50 and due on 27 November 2012. It was printed with a 
very specific agreement number, some of which  I set out here: 56abb6***. 
The significance of that reference number is that it is very specific and identifiable and appears twice  
on a screenshot of Mr Ws account sent to us by THL.  One entry  is the reference with a Date Due 
next to it of 27 November 2012 which fits with the printed agreement I have seen. And next to that 
entry is a tick on the column Was Ext. 
The other  entry  on the screenshot  with the same reference is next to an entry to show that the Date 
Due was 27 December 2012 and there is a tick box ticked in the column Is Ext.
At some point THL has explained that the loan was extended and an extension  charge was made of 
£92.5 this was a £15 payment towards the capital a £25 fee and £52.5 in interest was charged Loan 2 
the same balance  of £160 was then set up for payment  at the end of December 2012. This is the THL 
wording. THL has explained that there was no new capital on loan 2 and he only repaid the capital  
owed.
And in December  2013  Mr W repaid £162.70  and the account was closed.  THL says that it 
was settled  at a loss incurred  no late fees or interest in acknowledgement of [Mr Ws]health issues.
Ref: DRN08242934Having looked at all the details I agree with THL that this was one loan on 15 November  2012 which  
was extended with no additional capital funding.
In order  to see what THL credited to Mr W and what was repaid, and whether the second  loan 
involved any additional funding, I looked  at Mr Ws copy bank statements. 
I have been sent bank statements by Mr W but I think that these  we have are for one of his bank 
accounts. I can see from his personal credit file that Mr W had other bank accounts and I can see 
transfers across to what may have been one of those other accounts. I note that in July 2012 it 
appears to be used as a main account  with many credits and debits and a fluctuating balance.  But by 
September 2012 the activity on the account had reduced and in October, November  and 
December 2012 the statements show hardly  any activity at all. 
So it looks to me that Mr W started to use a different account for his main  transactions. As this is a 
provisional decision,  if Mr W wishes to send  to us any other copy bank statements from this period he 
is welcome to do so.
But without more I think that THLs explanation  and its screenshots  with clear reference to the same 
fixed term agreement reference number for both transactions leads me to think it was one loan, 
extended in November 2012 and repaid in December  2013.  
So the lending decision  to consider is that made on 12 November 2012. 
proportionate checks
THL has explained  that Mr W applied  initially for a £250  loan in November 2012. For a first loan with a 
company and for a loan of that size, then I think that the proportionate check  would  have been for 
THL to have known Mr Ws income and his regular expenditure.
 
Screenshots have  been  sent to us showing that Mr W had applied for the loan giving a number of 
personal details including these: date of birth, address, he was employed  full time and had been at 
that company since 1989 with a monthly take home pay of £1,700. The entries also show that his next 
take home pay was 27 November 2012 and that he was a homeowner. 
I do not think  that it knew  about Mr Ws expenditure. I have  seen copy  THL account notes dated 
15 and 16 November 2012 which indicate that a THL representative received the application for £250,  
did some  checks such as a debit card check and called his place of work to verify his employment. 
But I have not seen anything  more  than that.
THL chose to offer Mr W a loan of £150  and charged him a £25 administration fee which  was added  
to the loan.  It says that it did this as it was considerate  of affordability at time.  I have set out some of 
the details in the previous section of this provisional  decision above.
In order  to try to see what Mr Ws regular expenditure  was at that time, I looked at the bank 
statements Mr W has sent to us. As I have  explained in the previous section there is hardly any 
information recorded for November 2012. So I was not able to see what he spent  on regular 
expenditure such as bills, transport, credit cards, and other such  items. And I cannot see the loan 
approved on 12 November 2012 being credited to this account and so its likely another  was given to 
THL for this loan. 
But on the information I have  I do not think that Mr Ws income was £200 a month  I think it is more  
likely than not that Mr Ws salary was being paid into a different account.  
So I have not been able to see from these statements what  other regular expenditure Mr W had in 
November 2012, and without  more I think  that the lending  decision to offer a £150 loan despite  Mr W 
applying for a £250 loan was a responsible one. 
Ref: DRN08242935As an extension to the loan usually is a device  used  to assist a person  having difficulty  repaying, then 
the pattern of charging Mr W some interest, a further administration fee and some  money to repay  
part of the capital is not unusual.  I think that this is what happened. 
I appreciate that Mr W thinks that THL ought to have  done more  in-depth and comprehensive checks, 
but for one loan plus an extension  of that loan I do not think  that it would  have been proportionate for 
THL to look at further details such as his other short term loan liabilities at the time or look at his bank 
statements. So I do not think its likely THL would  have  seen  his gambling transactions  and if THL had 
asked Mr W I doubt that he would have informed  them of that habit. 
And in any event, on current  evidence I do not know what his bank statements for his main account 
would have revealed in November 2012  as I do not have full details. 
I am planning  not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.  
Social media invitation
I am not in a position to address this part of Mr Ws complaint. It is not a regulated  activity. So I say no 
more about it. 
my provisional  decision
I am planning  not to uphold Mr Ws complaint  and I will review it in two weeks.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0824293