K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  closed  his current  account  without  
any warning, instead of helping him when  he got into difficulties. He also complains that 
Halifax involved a debt collection agency, rather than dealing with him directly.
background
Mr S has a Halifax  current account with an overdraft. He used to have a credit card issued 
by Halifax too  more on that later.
Mr S says he had to move home unexpectedly and, as a result,  incurred costs  that meant he 
exceeded his overdraft limit. He asked Halifax for help with his moving costs.  Halifax  spoke 
with Mr S several times  about  how he intended to repay his overdraft.  In January 2017 
Halifax wrote  to Mr S asking him to complete an income and expenditure form. Mr S says he 
completed this form and sent it back to Halifax. Halifax says it didnt receive the form Mr S 
says he returned,  or any payments from Mr S towards his overdraft. Halifax, therefore, 
closed Mr Ss account and asked  a debt collection agency to recover  the debt. Mr S says he 
was unaware of this at the time.
Mr S says he visited a Halifax branch to apply for a loan  having  not heard back  from 
Halifax about the help he needed  and not knowing his account had been closed  to pay the 
additional costs  hed incurred as a result of moving. He says Halifax declined  his application 
saying he didnt meet their affordability  criteria and because he had an historic credit card 
debt. He says he found out his account had been closed too and that a debt collection 
agency had been appointed. He complained to Halifax  about  his account being  closed and a 
debt collection agency being appointed. He also complained to Halifax  about his loan being 
declined saying that hed gone to Court and had obtained an order requiring  them  to remove 
the credit  card debt.  Im not dealing  with Mr Ss complaint about Halifax  not removing his 
credit card debt  this decision  is only going to deal with Mr Ss complaint about his current 
account and overdraft.
Halifax investigated Mr Ss complaint about  his current  account  and overdraft. Halifax said 
that they had written  to Mr S to find out why his overdraft had increased and had asked him 
to complete an income and expenditure form to help them  understand his situation. Halifax 
said that they didnt receive  the income and expenditure form back. Halifax  said that 
because they hadnt had any response to their correspondence and because Mr S had not 
made any payments  onto his overdraft for several  months, they closed Mr Ss account  and 
passed his debt to a debt collection agency.  Halifax accepted that Mr S had returned their 
income and expenditure form and apologised that they hadnt received it. To put things right, 
Halifax offered to do what they would have done had they received and considered Mr Ss 
income and expenditure form. Specifically, Halifax said that they would refund charges 
totalling £142, give Mr S 60 days to repay  his overdraft and, in the event that he was unable 
to do so, backdate  the default they had applied to his account to January 2017.  In other 
words, backdate the default they had applied to his account to the date they would have 
closed his account had they considered  his income and expenditure form. They  also offered 
to compensate Mr S with £250 for the closure of the account and the handling of his 
complaint.
Mr S was unhappy with Halifaxs proposals, believing they had been unsympathetic to his 
recent unexpected  additional costs, caused  by the move. He said he wanted  Halifax to 
Ref: DRN03590972remove the debt collection agency  from collecting the debt, write off his overdrawn balance 
and reactivate his current account. Halifax disagreed so he brought his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt think that Halifax  had acted 
unfairly. They thought that Halifax had been  sympathetic  to Mr Ss needs during a time when 
his outgoings  had begun to increase and considered their actions to have been fair. Mr S 
wasnt happy with our investigators  response, so asked for an ombudsman  to consider his 
complaint. He also said that the complaint was making him anxious  and was having an 
impact on his health.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr S had to move  unexpectedly  in 2016 and this meant he incurred significant  
costs. He applied  to Halifax for a loan and was declined. I accept that this was, in part, 
because of an historic credit card debt that ought to have been  written off. I can, therefore, 
understand why Mr S was annoyed  about  this. Although he complained about that, weve  
said were unable to look into that complaint.
I can see that Halifax had written to Mr S say that hed exceeded  his overdraft limit and 
asked him to complete an income and expenditure form. Halifax wanted to know how Mr S 
was going to repay this debt.
I can see that Mr S expected Halifax to help him with the costs  he was incurring  and, given 
that he was unhappy about  his loan being turned  down, I can understand why hes 
disappointed with Halifaxs decision  not to lend him further funds. However, Halifax  have an 
obligation to lend in an affordable and responsible way. So I dont agree with Mr S that 
Halifax should have  helped him with his moving costs. I do, however, agree with him that 
Halifax should have  helped when, as a result of incurring these costs,  he got into financial 
difficulties. In particular,  Id expect Halifax to treat Mr S positively and sympathetically.
I can see that Halifax asked Mr S to send  them  details of his income and expenditure when 
he went over his overdraft limit to see how he could  repay his debt and this is something  Id 
expect Halifax to do. I would then have  expected  Halifax  to consider those details to work 
out if Mr S was able to repay his overdraft in an affordable way and within  a reasonable 
timescale. Unfortunately, Halifax say they didnt receive the form, although there seems to 
be no dispute that Mr S returned it. They have also, therefore, accepted that they didnt 
suspend charges and interest and didnt give Mr S an opportunity  to repay  the overdraft.
Given what Ive just said, I think Halifaxs proposal   to put Mr S into the position he would 
have been had Halifax acted on his income and expenditure form  is a fair and reasonable 
one. In other words,  I think its fair and reasonable for Halifax  to waive  the interest and 
charges they applied  to Mr Ss account  from October 2016  onwards, which  is what  Halifax  
would have done on receipt  of Mr Ss income and expenditure form. 
I also think its fair and reasonable for Halifax  to work on the basis  that they would  have 
closed Mr Ss account in January 2017,  on the basis that his income  and expenditure form 
showed he wasnt able to repay  his overdraft in a reasonable time. Halifax  would have 
Ref: DRN03590973registered a default when  they closed Mr Ss account. So it follows  that I also think its fair 
and reasonable for Halifax to backdate the default  they registered  against Mr Ss account to 
January 2017.
Halifax has accepted  that they didnt handle Mr Ss financial  difficulties as well as it should 
have done, given that it didnt respond to the form he sent in. I accept  that the way Mr S 
found out his account  had been closed  must  have  been a shock, and that the way Halifax 
handled his case  has caused him distress.
So, in addition to putting Mr S back in the position  he wouldve been in, had they received  
his income and expenditure form, I think Halifax should recognise the distress  and 
inconvenience experienced  by Mr S. I can appreciate what a shock  it mustve been  for Mr S 
to discover his account had been closed and passed to a debt collection agency  
particularly when he was under the impression that Halifax  were considering his repayment 
options, having returned his completed  income and expenditure form to them. And I can 
understand why Mr S was frustrated at not being able to borrow more money to help him. 
Halifax have offered £250 in compensation for the distress inconvenience  experienced by Mr 
S. Mr S has clearly  been through a difficult time recently and this has had an impact  on his 
health. But I dont  think it would be fair to say that Halifax  was responsible for all of the 
problems hes had to deal with. Instead its fair to say that Halifax  added  to his difficulties  
the shock at discovering  his account  had been  closed  and the stress of a debt collection 
agency getting involved. I think  the offer of £250 that Halifax  has made is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  hes experienced.
my final decision
My final decision is that the offer Bank of Scotland plc has made  is fair and reasonable. Im 
therefore going to require  Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr S £250  in compensation and 
refund £142s  worth  of charges and interest,  if it hasnt  already done so.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019
Rebecca Kemp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0359097