K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him payment protection  insurance  (PPI).
background
Mr M applied  for a credit card online in 2008.  At the same time he took out a
PPI policy  to cover his credit card repayments. The policy cost 56p for each £100  of the
balance on Mr Ms credit  card. A successful claim on the policy  wouldve paid 10% of the
outstanding balance for up to 12 months per claim if Mr M lost his job.
Mr M says he had significant sick pay and so the PPI was surplus  to requirements. More 
recently, hes also said he wouldnt have  bought  it if the costs had been  made  clear  and hed 
known he had a choice about it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ms complaint didnt uphold it. Mr M disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear Mr M had a choice about PPI and get his agreement to it. 
Ive seen a copy  of the screen shots  I understand Mr M wouldve seen and completed when 
he applied  for the card.  I can see theres a separate section dealing with PPI. It briefly 
explains what PPI is and gives  four options with different levels  of PPI. This includes the 
option not to take PPI. 
Barclays has given us a screen print showing  Mr M chose life and involuntary  unemployment  
cover only  he didnt  choose cover  for accident  and sickness. This may well be because  he 
thought he had enough cover already in place for accident and sickness,  since  Mr M has told 
us he got significant sick pay from his employer.  So I think  Mr M agreed to buy the PPI 
knowing he had a choice.  If he hadnt  wanted  it, he couldve chosen  not to take the cover.
This was an online application so I dont  think Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr M. That 
means it didnt have to check  if it was right for him in his circumstances. But it did have to 
make sure Mr M got the information he needed to make that decision himself in an informed 
way.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like he wanted  this type of
cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it couldve been  useful
to him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  Mr M says he had 
a lump sum retirement plan if he had to retire on medical grounds. But the PPI wouldve paid 
a benefit for up to 12 months for each successful claim Mr M made if he became  
Ref: DRN05169832unemployed involuntarily, so it gave a different type of cover from Mr Ms retirement  plan. All 
in all, I dont think  clearer information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should  have told Mr M about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold   so Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0516983