K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Miss M complain the settlement  offered by AXA Insurance  UK Plc (AXA) for the 
loss of a ring is unfair. 
background
Mr R and Miss M held a Home  Insurance policy with AXA. In January 2018, Miss M lost a 
ring that Mr R had purchased for her and Mr R made a claim on the policy which was 
accepted by AXA. 
Mr R provided  information  to show the replacement cost of the ring. This was the price  he 
paid for the ring. AXA then offered Mr R the choice of either accepting an electronic voucher 
of the value of the replacement cost which could be used to source an identical replacement  
or a reduced cash settlement, less the policy excess of £100. Mr R accepted  the reduced 
cash settlement, but later complained to AXA that the amount it paid him was unfair.
AXA looked  into Mr Rs concerns, but it felt it had acted in line with its policy terms. Mr R 
remained unhappy so he referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator  reviewed the 
complaint, but he didnt  think  it should be upheld. In summary,  he felt AXA had acted in line 
with its policy terms and the cash settlement was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. He reiterated that he felt hed been  forced  to over-
insure the ring and that he was suspicious of AXAs  use of electronic vouchers. Hes also 
referred to wording from a ruling he says our service previously  made. 
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, it has been  passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
Under the terms of the policy, and on a fair and reasonable basis, AXA needs to indemnify 
Mr R and Miss M by putting them, as best as it can, in the position they were in before the 
loss.
In respect of claims made  for personal  possessions, as applies here, the terms say:
We may repair, reinstate or replace the lost or damaged property. If we cannot replace or 
repair the property  we may pay for the loss or damage in cash. Where we can offer repair  or 
replacement through  a preferred supplier, but we agree to pay cash settlement, then 
payment will not exceed the amount we would have paid the preferred  supplier. If no 
equivalent replacement  is available  then we will pay the full replacement  cost of the item with 
no discount applied.
Its clear from those  terms that if making  a cash payment, it is up to the amount that it would 
have cost AXA to replace  the item using a preferred supplier. Similar provisions  are found in 
most home insurance policies and I dont find them unusual or surprising.
Ref: DRN09559012AXA has provided information to show its agent,  Company L, could source a replacement  
like for like ring at the discounted  cost that it paid Mr R. As the cash  offer is reflective of 
what it would  have  cost AXA to replace the ring, Im satisfied AXA has acted in line with the 
terms of the policy. And as such,  I wont be asking AXA to do anything more.
AXA also offered to supply an electronic voucher of the value of the replacement  cost, which  
would have allowed  Mr R and Miss M to source an identical ring from the jeweller  Mr R had 
purchased the original  ring from. Im satisfied  this would  have indemnified Mr R and Miss M 
by putting them back in the position they were  in before the loss. 
Mr R has referred  to wording that, in summary,  says its wrong  to offer a policyholder  an 
authority to buy jewellery up to an agreed  value  at a particular jewellers shop. The wording 
Mr R has quoted is from an annual  report published by one of our predecessor schemes in 
1987. It appears to relate to a general  principle determined at that time and it doesnt provide 
any context about  any complaint  it may have concerned. Its my role to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr R and Miss Ms complaint and Im satisfied the 
voucher offered would  have allowed them to source  a suitable replacement.   
Mr R says hes suspicious of arrangements involving the electronic voucher as the scheme  
is provided by Company  L, who Mr R says were also acting as a loss adjuster. He feels this 
is a conflict of interest. 
I understand AXA appointed Company  L as its agent to validate the claim and source a 
replacement ring. The policy terms say: 
We may appoint an approved supplier to act on our behalf to validate your claim. They are 
authorised to arrange a quotation,  a repair  or a replacement. 
As a result, Im satisfied  AXA has acted  in line with its policy terms. I also dont think  that 
Company Ls use of its own voucher scheme  to arrange a suitable replacement ring is 
unreasonable.  
Mr R also says he feels hes been  forced to over-insure the ring. This is because  he says 
hes paid premiums reflective of the actual value of the ring, but he only received a reduced 
cash settlement. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Rs point, I dont agree. I say this because theres an underlying 
principle that personal possessions  should  be insured at their full value, otherwise the 
policyholder risks being underinsured. Further, in Mr R and Miss Ms case, the policy terms 
set out how AXA settles claims and at least one of the options AXA offered would have 
allowed them to source a suitable  replacement.  
Overall, Im satisfied the settlements AXA offered were fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN09559013my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2019.
Michelle Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0955901