K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr L and Ms W hold with Bank  of Scotland  plc (BOS).  
They say BOS failed  to inform them in good time that they needed its agreement in advance  
to sell the property  at a shortfall. This delayed the sale to the point  where their buyers 
mortgage offer expired.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding any numbers involved.  No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  mention  
something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr L and Ms W when  my 
decision is published. 
Mr L and Ms W owned the property  jointly, but since their relationship ended, only Ms W has 
lived in it for some time now. Mr L lives elsewhere,  and BOS  has his address. Theyd  been  
trying to sell the house, and in May 2018  had a buyer at a price  (£171,000)  that was enough 
to repay  the mortgager fully. Mr L had a phone conversation with BOS in which  it agreed to 
suspend any recovery action pending the sale. 
By August, the sale hadnt completed,  and in the meantime, no mortgage payments had 
been made, and the balance had gone up. This meant a sale at the original agreed price 
wouldnt be enoiugh to clear the mortgage in ful, and this required Mr L and Ms W to apply to 
BOS for consent to the shortfall.  That process began in September and was approved at the 
end of October.  The sale completed in the second week  of November.
Whilst this was going on, Mr L and Ms W, assisted by Mrs T, had complained  about the 
delay and BOS  had issued a final response on 11 October 2018, rejecting the compaint. The 
compaint was referred to us, with Mrs T acting as the consumers representative.  Our 
investigator didnt  think  BOS had done anything wrong. Mrs T doesnt agree, so the case 
has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us
Ref: DRN09953942Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mr L and Ms W, as Ive come to broadly the same  conclusions as the investigator 
did, and for much the same overall  reasons.
The main  thrust of Mrs Ts argument  appears  to be not so much that the shortfall approval 
process took too long, rather that it should  have started earlier. She says that BOS  should 
have told Mr L about it in May, rather than in August. I understand her point, but dont agree 
with it. 
There was no reason for BOS to tell Mr L about the shortfall approval  process  in May 
because quite simply, at that time,  there was so shortfall. The shortfall was revealed in 
August when Mr L and Ms Ws solicitor  called for a redemption statement  and realised the 
balance requested was more than the agreed  sale price. The reason for that is monthly 
payments had stopped after May.  Thats not BOS fault. 
Its been suggested that when BOS said in May that it would put things on hold to allow the 
sale to go through,  Mr L and Ms W took that to mean they could stop making the monthly 
payments. The evidence Ive seen and considered  doesnt give me any reason to think BOS  
implied that payments could stop. 
Even if there  had been some ambiguity, the letters BOS  sent out in June and July about 
missed payments (sent to the mortgaged property and Mr Ls correspondence  address)  
would have dispelled any notion he and Ms W might  have had that they didnt still need  to 
make the monthly  payments.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Ms W (or 
Mrs T on their behalf)  to accept or reject  my decision before 8 February 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0995394