K821x#15complaint
Miss Fs complaint is about investment advice she received from a St. Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJP) adviser  in December 2016. She made the investments in 2017 and 
she says they were unsuitable.  She seeks redress in this respect, redress  for fees/charges  
incurred and redress for tax implications  arising  from the investments.
background
A chronology of key events is as follows:
December 2016  the adviser made recommendations to Miss F to meet an 
Inheritance Tax (IHT) objective.  SJP says this was the objective she presented but 
Miss F says the adviser initiated  the objective  and convinced her that the 
recommendations were  in her interest.  The recommendations featured the liquidation 
of two Investment  Bonds (IBX52  and IBG88), an Individual Savings Account (ISA) 
and a Unit Trust (UT) and then reinvestment of the proceeds in four Loan  Trust 
(LT) Plans  LTB47,  LTC75,  LTK87 and LTR93. SJP says the idea was to move 
the assets previously  growing in Miss Fs estate into the LTs where such growth  
would then happen outside the estate (and beyond the reach of IHT).
16 January 2017  the ISA, UT and Investment Bonds (IBs)  the pre-2017 
investments  were  liquidated.
18 January 2017  investments, of £139,000  each, were made in LTC75, LTK87 and 
LTR93; Initial Adviser Charges (IAC)  and Ongoing Advice Charges (OAC), totalling 
£6,991.42, were applied to each  of the three  LT investments.
25, 30 and 31 January  2017  trust deeds were  executed for LTR93, LTC75  and 
LTK87 respectively.
13 April 2017  the trust deed  for LTB47 was executed.
26 April 2017  investment of £139,000  was made in LTB47; IAC of £5,560  was 
applied to this investment;  Miss F also made a personal payment of £6,808.43 (on 
25 April 2017) to cover a shortfall  in the previous liquidation  proceeds (in order  to 
reach the investment amount of £139,000).
29 March 2018  through the partner, Miss F surrendered LTB47 with chargeable 
gains of £6,891 (including the IAC, which then reduced the (net) gains for the trust) 
arising from it. Later in 2018 Miss F presented her complaint.
January 2019   one of our adjudicators upheld Miss Fs complaint and made redress 
proposals; thereafter, SJP accepted the upholding of the complaint but declared that 
the redress proposals were not feasible as reinstatement of the pre-2017 
investments, upon which the proposals were  based,  was not possible; both parties,  
through this service,  then began to explore an alternative basis for redress.
14 March 2019  on Miss Fs independent  instruction,  LTR93 was surrendered with 
chargeable gains of £13,365 (including  the IAC and OAC, which then reduced the 
(net) gains for the trust) arising from it. 
1 April 2019  on Miss Fs independent instruction, LTC75 was surrendered with 
chargeable gains of £13,867 (including  the IAC and OAC, which then reduced the 
(net) gains for the trust) arising from it; and LTK87  was surrendered with chargeable 
gains of £13,936 (including  the IAC and OAC,  which then reduced the (net) gains for 
the trust) arising from it. [There was a shortfall  of £860 in the proceeds  remitted for 
these sales that was later rectified  by remittance in June 2019.]
April 2019  exploration of a basis for redress, other than what  was proposed  in the 
adjudicators view, was abandoned as the parties could not agree  on an alternative; 
Miss F withdrew  the proposal  she had made  during the exploration and returned her 
Ref: DRN00649752position to the adjudicators proposal (which she had accepted in January 2019); SJP 
repeated that the adjudicators proposal remained impossible.
July 2019   the complaint had been transferred to another adjudicator  by this time; 
she noted that reinstatement of the pre-2017 investments was not possible and she 
outlined the following  basis  for redress  
oFirst, there should be a growth performance  comparison  exercise between  how 
the pre-2017 investments  would have performed  had they remained in place  
and from when  they were liquidated  to when the 2017 LTs (in which proceeds 
from the liquidation of the pre-2017  investments were reinvested)  were liquidated 
 and the performances of, and sums paid out from, the 2017 LTs upon  their 
liquidation. Then an income  performance/provision comparison between  the two 
subjects and based on a similar  exercise.  [redress 1]
oThere should be a calculation of Miss Fs assumed Capital Gains  Tax (CGT)  
liability, based on a 10 year date, arising from the unsuitable advice to surrender 
an existing ISA; calculation of any additional income tax she incurs  in relation to 
that advice; and the sums should  be refunded  to Miss F with interest (from the tax 
payments to the date of settlement). [redress 2]
oThere should be compensation  to Miss F for the loss of her ISA benefits, based 
on this services usual  approach. [redress 3]
oMiss F should be refunded the payment  of £6,808.43 she made on 25 April 2017 
to cover the shortfall for the LTB47 investment, with interest  from that date to the 
settlement date. [redress 4]
oMiss F should receive  £1,000, as proposed in the adjudicators view, for the 
trouble and upset  the matter has caused  her. [redress 5]
oSJP should  refund,  to Miss F, the reasonable accountancy costs   based on 
evidence of such costs  she will need to provide SJP  she incurred in relation to 
the matter and in relation to the tax implications arising from it. [redress 6]
oSJP should  cover any tax arising  from the surrender  of the LTs and any IHT that 
becomes payable by the beneficiary of the LTs, arising from their surrenders, 
should he die within seven years of the surrenders; Miss F will need to provide 
evidence of this to SJP too. [redress 7]
To date, and following the adjudicators  outline  of redress (above), Miss F has raised  the 
following main points:
She is concerned  that the basis for redressing her loss of ISA efficiency will result in 
SJP using a calculation it previously proposed  and she rejected. The adjudicator 
said that calculation  appears to be in line with our usual  approach and Miss F agreed  
to await the ombudsmans finding  in this respect.
She came across  evidence  which suggests  that defects in the trust arrangements  for 
the LTs meant/mean they did not and could not have served the IHT objective the 
adviser said they served. This gives further grounds for SJP to refund the charges 
(IACs and OACs) deducted from the gains when  the LTs were surrendered. Due to 
the deducted IACs and OACs  she received only the balance  of the gains. In terms of 
redress, she had to repair the defective trusts by closing  them; this is the advice 
received from a Chartered Financial Planner (CFP);  the defects mean that the total 
gains (including  the deductions) are deemed to remain with her, in addition  to any 
gains generated  in the reinvestments she made in May 2019 with the proceeds  of the 
liquidated LTs; in order to close  the trusts the loans from the LTs had to be repaid 
and the gains from each had to be given to the beneficiaries;  the former  already 
happened, in order to conclude the latter she sold some investments to generate the 
total gains the trusts are responsible for and then she gave those gains to the 
Ref: DRN00649753beneficiaries; the result  is that having  already  and unfairly lost the total sum deducted 
(as IACs and OACs) from the gains in all of the LTs she remained responsible for the 
full amount of those  gains and had to generate  and give away  that full amount to the 
beneficiaries; this roughly duplicated her loss and she calculates the total to be 
£76,638 (including the total of IACs and OACs deducted from the previous gains plus 
the total she raised to replicate those gains and cover the gains from May 2019).
A problem arose about two trust fund investments, through  the adviser,  in 2009.
The award for trouble and upset should  be increased to cover the distress she has 
been subjected  to since the adjudicator first proposed it.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The 2009  Trust  Funds
I consider the complaint in this respect  to be beyond my remit, so I do not address it. The 
complaint SJP responded to, and that was referred  to us, is about the December 2016 
advice, the 2017 liquidations  and reinvestments and the related  events  thereafter.  I do not 
consider that the issues about  the 2009  trust funds featured in what SJP and this service  
have treated, so I do not consider it within the scope of this decision. If those issues require 
treatment Miss F is invited to consider  her options  to achieve that. 
The findings  below relate only to the complaint about liquidation of the pre-2017  
investments, about the 2017  LT investments and about the related  events  thereafter.
Merits
I do not consider  that there  is a dispute  between the parties over the merits of the complaint. 
The initial adjudicators view upheld the merits of the complaint with detailed reasons for 
doing so. For the sake  of completeness, I endorse the adjudicators  findings  in this respect 
and, for broadly  the same reasons she gave,  I conclude that the investment advice given  to 
Miss F in December 2016 (including  the result of that advice)  was unsuitable.  
SJP did not quite welcome all of the findings on merits  but it expressly accepted  them and 
turned its attention to the matter of redress since. Miss F welcomed the findings on merits 
and also turned her attention to the matter of redress since. For these reasons, I do not 
consider it necessary to recount the grounds  for upholding the merits of Miss Fs complaint. 
The issue  to determine  is redress for Miss F.
Redress
My findings  (and orders)  on redress are consistent  with what the adjudicator broadly set out 
to the parties  in her email  of 16 July 2019.  It does  not appear possible to reinstate the pre-
2017 investments.  Redress will take the form of putting Miss F, as closely  and reasonably as 
possible, where she would be but for the unsuitable  advice. Above, I referred to the different 
elements of what the adjudicator set out and I used  redress  1 to redress 7 to identify them.  
I use the same below to make provisions on how Miss F must be compensated in this 
complaint. In the course of doing  so, I also address the key points  she raised. 
Ref: DRN00649754Overall, redress  is based on the finding  that Miss F should not have been advised to 
liquidate IBX52, IBG88,  the UT and the ISA in 2017;  it is mainly  based on a calculation start 
date(s) that is(are) the date(s) on which each of these  assets  was liquidated; it is also based 
on the end date of when  the last LT was liquidated  (1 April 2019); I appreciate that only two 
of the four LTs were  liquidated on this date,  that one had been liquidated around  a month 
earlier and that another  had been liquidated  around a year earlier,  but given that the 2018 
liquidation was consumed,  mainly or wholly, by a withdrawal that was not reinvested (which  
will be deducted from the calculations ordered  below) and given the proximity between the 
2019 liquidations I consider the use of this single end date to be broadly fair and reasonable.
Redress 1
I order SJP to do the following:
Calculate, individually, what IBX52, IBG88, the UT and the ISA were worth at the 
point each was liquidated; each result  shall be the A value for each asset.
Calculate, individually, what IBX52, IBG88, the UT and the ISA would  have been  
worth on 1 April 2019  had they remained  in place;  a deduction should be made 
across these assets to reflect  the total capital  withdrawal Miss F made  in March 
2018; the type of deductions across  these assets which  were  presented  in SJPs 
proposal correspondence of 5 April 2019  would be a fair way to approach this; each 
result shall be the B value for each asset.
If, for each asset, the A value is less than the B value  the difference will be the fair 
value of growth for each asset; otherwise there will be no growth value.
Calculate, individually, what the four LTs were worth at the point each was invested; 
a deduction should  be made for the £6,808.43 which was added personally by 
Miss F, on 25 April 2017, towards the LTB47 investment  and which was not part of 
the pre-2017 investments  liquidation proceeds; in the absence of the LTB47 
investment this outlay  would not have been necessary, this deduction  ensures an 
equal comparison between the pre-2017 investments and the LTs and it also reflects 
redress to Miss F below for the £6,808.43 payment;  each  result  of the calculations 
shall be the C value  for each LT.
Calculate, individually, what the four LTs were worth to Miss F when they were each 
liquidated (that is, what she/the trusts  received from them,  subject to the next 
provision); as above, the calculations should discount the £6,808.43 (and any growth 
upon it) which  was added personally  by Miss F, on 25 April 2017, towards the LTB47 
investment; each result  of the calculations shall be the D value  for each LT.
If, for each LT, the C value is less than the D value the difference  will be the actual 
value of growth for each LT; otherwise  there will be no growth value.
Calculate the total of all the fair values of growth and the total of all the actual  values 
of growth; if the total of fair values is greater than the total of actual  values the 
difference must be paid to Miss F as compensation for lost growth; SJP must also 
pay interest on this compensation, at the rate of 8% simple per year, from 
1 April 2019 to the date of settlement; Income tax may be payable on any interest 
awarded.
Calculate the total of all distributed  income that would  have  been  paid to Miss F from 
IBX52, IBG88, the UT and the ISA from the point each was liquidated up to 
1 April 2019; deducting any income that would have  been  generated from the capital 
withdrawal Miss F made in March 2018 from the date of that withdrawal to 
1 April 2019; the result shall be the total fair income.
Ref: DRN00649755Calculate the total of all income paid to Miss F from the four LTs from the point each 
was invested up to when each was liquidated;  the calculations  should discount 
income generated from the £6,808.43 paid, by Miss F on 25 April 2017, towards the 
LTB47 investment; the result  shall be the total actual income.
If the total fair income  is greater  than the total actual income, the difference must  be 
paid to Miss F as compensation for lost income;  SJP must also pay interest on this 
compensation, at the rate of 8% simple  per year, from 1 April 2019 to the date of 
settlement; Income tax may be payable  on any interest awarded.
In this section, I also wish to address Miss Fs claim for a refund of fees and her claim for 
duplicated loss in this respect.
I am not persuaded by the claim for a refund of the OACs. Even if the pre-2017  investments 
had been retained and had continued, it is more likely  than not that Miss F would have taken 
ongoing advice  for them  and that such advice would have been  at a cost.  There does not 
appear to be evidence that the OACs associated with the LTs were more  than the costs  of 
the ongoing advice that would have been associated with the pre-2017 investments.
I am also not persuaded by the claim for a refund of the money Miss F says she had to raise 
and give away to the beneficiaries in order to close the relevant trusts. It is an event that took 
place after the end date I mentioned above and she took the relevant steps  independently, 
following advice from a third party  not SJP.  I appreciate that Miss F will say it was an event 
that was necessary to fix part of the 2016/2017 unsuitable  advice,  but she is being 
compensated for that unsuitable advice and she mitigated the effect of that unsuitable  advice 
by completing the liquidation of the LTs by April 2019. She reinvested the proceeds 
thereafter and took the advice that resulted  in closure of the trusts  as she has described. 
Overall and on balance,  I do not consider that SJPs responsibility extends to this claim. 
I understand Miss Fs claim for a refund of the IACs associated with the LTs. She says that 
but for the unsuitable recommendation of and investments in the LTs these costs would not 
have been incurred. If the IACs were paid as separate costs before the LT investments were  
made then I order SJP to refund Miss F the IACs  charged in relation to each LT investment. 
However if, as suggested in the 2017 illustrations,  the IACs were  addressed  by deductions  
from within the LTs then those deductions will be reflected  in the redress  related 
performance calculations  ordered above and such redress should not be duplicated,  so SJP 
does not need to refund the IACs separately.
Redress 2 and Redress 3
In this section I address  compensation  for Miss Fs loss of CGT tax efficiency and ISA 
income tax efficiency. I consider that SJPs  calculations,  in the spreadsheet attached  to its 
correspondence of 5 April 2019,  in this respect are consistent with this services  usual  
approach for such compensation.
The calculations reflect the capital  withdrawal of £140,000 Miss F made in March  2018 and I 
agree with this  the facts  suggest that the withdrawal would have been made in any case  
(whether (or not) the investment switches happened in 2017).  The calculations  also assume 
that around £30,000 of this withdrawal would  have been taken, tax efficiently, from the total 
tax deferred allowances for IBX52 and IBG88. I agree with this too, as it would have been 
the tax efficient thing  to do in terms of contributing to the total withdrawal amount. The 
calculations then assume that the remaining £110,000 would have  been  obtained from 
Ref: DRN00649756liquidating the UT (generating around  £10,000) and withdrawing £100,000 from the ISA. On 
balance, I do not consider  that there is evidence that defeats  this assumption.
Based on the above, on the value  of the ISA (after deduction of the £100,000  amount)  and 
on the deduction of £20,000 (from the 2018/2019 year)  for the ISA subscription in 
2019/2020, SJPs calculation of lost CGT and ISA tax efficiency  over the period of 
10 years  from 2019 (which is consistent  with our approach)  begins with an ISA value of 
around £115,000. 
Miss F disputes this and presented  her alternative, but I consider SJPs  calculation to be 
more accurate because  it reflects  the 2018  withdrawal, whereas hers does not appear  to do 
so. I have also drawn this conclusion  in terms of SJPs calculation  reflecting our approach of 
assuming 5% capital  growth and income  at the rate of 2.5%,  whereas Miss Fs alternative 
uses a higher percentage for income; and because it reflects our approach of assuming the 
tax position on the ISA will remain unchanged, whereas Miss Fs alternative includes a 
change to the tax position. SJPs calculation also correctly accounts for the relevant dividend 
allowances during the 10 years.
I understand the points Miss F has made  in support of her alternative. However, in the 
absence of reasons  to depart from our usual approach, I agree with the calculation  from SJP 
which follows that approach. I have not seen enough reason to depart from that approach.
I order SJP to ensure  that the calculation  in the spreadsheet  attached to its correspondence  
of 5 April 2019  is accurate,  and up-to-date if or where necessary, and then to use it as a 
basis to determine  redress  for Miss F in terms of loss of CGT tax efficiency and ISA tax 
efficiency (arising from the relevant 10 years period). 
Overall, I agree  with the adjudicator that if Miss F can show  that she has incurred additional 
income tax as a result  of the unsuitable advice she should be compensated for that. I order  
that, upon Miss F providing evidence of such additional income tax liability to SJP, SJP must 
refund to her the amount of that liability with interest,  at the rate of 8% simple per year, from 
the date it was paid to HMRC to the date of settlement.
Redress 4
I order SJP to refund Miss F the payment of £6,808.43 she made  on 25 April 2017 to cover  
the shortfall for the LTB47  investment.  This amount arose outside  the total proceeds 
generated from liquidating  the pre-2017 investments and has been  discounted  from the 
redress orders above. The aim is to restore Miss F into the position where she did not have  
to make and did not make  this payment. It has been  discounted in the calculations  above 
and it must  be refunded  to Miss F. As the adjudicator said,  the payments source was her 
current account so she has lost interest on it  at the relevant current account interest rate  
from 25 April 2017 to date (without deducting  tax). SJP must refund the payment and add 
this interest.
Redress 5
I order SJP to pay Miss F £1,000 for the trouble and upset the matter  has caused  her. I am 
not persuaded by her claim for more in this respect.  I understand her points in support of the 
claim and about the distress she has endured  in pursuing the complaint, but I consider that 
this amount is broadly consistent with what this service would award in comparable  cases  
and that it covers the trouble caused to her by pursuing the complaint.
Ref: DRN00649757Redress 6 and Redress 7
I order SJP to refund,  to Miss F, the reasonable accountancy costs  based  on evidence  of 
such costs which she must first produce to SJP  she incurred directly in relation to the 
complaints matters and directly in relation to the tax implications arising from them. I order  
SJP to cover any tax arising  from the surrender of the LTs  upon the provision of evidence  
of such tax to it. I also order SJP to cover  any IHT that becomes payable by the beneficiary  
of the LTs arising from their surrenders  upon the provision of evidence of such tax to it  
should he die within seven years of the surrenders. Available evidence  shows  that SJP 
already agrees with the responsibilities in these  orders,  as they are included  in its proposal 
correspondence of 5 April 2019.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Miss Fs complaint and I order  St. Jamess Place 
Wealth Management Plc to calculate and pay redress as ordered  above and to provide its 
calculations of redress to Miss F in a clear and simple  format. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or reject  my decision 
before 4 March  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0064975