K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complains  about the service  she received  when she tried to make arrangements  for 
the return of a car supplied on contract hire by Lex Autolease Ltd. Shes also unhappy  about  
additional charges for a rental extension.
background
In September  2014 Mrs L was supplied with a car and entered  into a contract hire 
agreement with Lex Autolease.
Towards the end of the agreement Mrs L asked if she could extend the lease as she was 
happy with the car. Lex Autolease told her this wouldnt be possible so she made 
arrangements for alternative car hire and asked for the old car to be collected.
Mrs L received confirmation  from Lex Autoleases collection  agent that the car would be 
collected on 20 March  2018. Mrs L arranged for her son to wait at home but the car wasnt 
collected.
Mrs L contacted the collection  agent  to complain. It told her the driver had been diverted. 
Mrs L tried to rearrange the collection but was told that only weekday appointments were 
available. These  werent suitable for Mrs L as she had just started a new job and couldnt  
take time off.
Mrs L contacted Lex Autolease  and explained  what had happened.  She was told that it 
should be possible for them to arrange an evening or weekend  collection.
The collection agent contacted Mrs L to rearrange collection but said it couldnt  collect in the 
evening or at weekends. Mrs L wasnt happy to rearrange an appointment without speaking  
to Lex Autolease again.
Ultimately the car was collected on 1 June  2018. Later on Autolease sent Mrs L an invoice 
for additional rental.
Mrs L complained to this service. She wasnt happy about the customer  service she had 
received from Lex Autolease and didnt think it was fair that she should  have  to pay 
additional rental charges when the delay in collecting  the car wasnt her fault.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said Lex Autolease couldve done more  to make 
arrangements for the car to be collected at an earlier  date and because of this it wasnt  fair 
to apply the additional rental charges. The investigator also recommended that Lex 
Autolease pay compensation to Mrs L for the inconvenience caused.
Lex Autolease didnt agree. It said it hadnt guaranteed to Mrs L that the car could be 
collected in the evening  or at the weekend. It also said the collection agent  had tried to 
contact her several times  but hadnt received a response.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN08480082The car wasnt collected on the arranged  date. No-one contacted Mrs L to explain that there 
were staffing issues. Because Lex Autolease  instructed  the collection agents to collect the 
car on its behalf, Lex Autolease must accept responsibility for the failings of the collection 
agents. I wouldve  expected the collection agents to contact Mrs L on the proposed 
collection date to let her know that there  was a problem  and that the collection wouldnt go 
ahead. Theres  no evidence that anyone  tried to contact Mrs L and it was left to Mrs L to 
contact the agent  to ask why the car hadnt been  collected.
Ive listened to the call that Mrs L subsequently made  to Lex Autolease. During the call the 
advisor said to Mrs L that he would  try to arrange an evening or weekend  collection. 
Although the advisor didnt promise this, the conversation took place against a background 
of inconvenience  already  caused by one missed  collection and Im satisfied that Mrs L was 
left with the clear  expectation that collection would be arranged at a time which was 
convenient to her.
When Mrs L next spoke  to the collection  agents  she was told that collection couldnt be 
arranged for an evening or weekend. Mrs L wasnt happy to rearrange collection  at that point 
and wanted to speak to Lex Autolease again. I dont think Mrs L acted  unreasonably  here  
shed been led to believe that Lex Autolease would arrange an evening or weekend  
collection and was being told something  different by the collection  agent.
Lea Autolease has said that the collection agent  tried to contact Mrs L several times to 
rearrange collection. Mrs L has said that no-one  contacted her. Ive taken into account  the 
available information  to decide  what is most likely to have happened. It looks like the 
collection agent tried to contact Mrs L three times in late March/early  April.  The calls rang out 
and no message was left. Mrs L called back on one occasion. When  she was told that she 
couldnt arrange a weekend collection she wanted to speak  to Lex Autolease again. Ive 
already explained why I dont think Mrs L acted unreasonably here.  
The collection agent has said that it also emailed Mrs L in early  April to arrange collection.  
None of these  emails have been  provided and Mrs L says she didnt receive  any. The 
collection agent cancelled  the collection on 10 April 2018.
I cant be satisfied that the collection agent  tried to contact Mrs L by email. Overall I think 
there was poor communication between Lex Autolease, the collection agent  and Mrs L. Mrs 
L was led to believe  by Lex Autolease that collection could be arranged  at a weekend  and 
was waiting for the collection agent  to contact  her to arrange this. But the collection agent  
told Mrs L it couldnt arrange this and then cancelled the collection after a couple  of weeks, 
which was unjustified and caused further delays, because  Mrs L was still waiting for them to 
contact her.
Lex Autolease has said that Mrs L was told she would incur  additional charges. I can see 
that charges were  mentioned in an email to Mrs L dated 13 April 2018.  However,  at this point 
Mrs L was still waiting  for the collection agent  to contact her and its clear from her email in 
response to Lex Autolease that she didnt agree with the charges.
Mrs Ls behaviour was consistent with someone who wanted  the car collected. She didnt  
use the car and she asked Lex Autolease  to arrange  collection  as a matter  of urgency 
because the car was taking up a parking space and causing issues  with her neighbours.
Taking all of the circumstances into consideration I think Lex Autolease could have done 
more to make arrangements for the car to be collected at an earlier  date. Closer  
Ref: DRN08480083communication between  Lex Autolease and the collection agent wouldve resulted in Lex 
Autolease being  able to give Mrs L the correct  information about collection times. Although 
Mrs L wouldntve been happy about this, I think she wouldve arranged to take a day off 
work  as this is what she ultimately did. All of this could have happened  much sooner if 
there had been  netter communication at the end of March/beginning of April. I think  the 
collection agent caused further  delay  by cancelling the collection. This led to a period  of time 
where nothing  happened.  Because of this I dont  think its fair that Mrs L should have to pay 
any additional rental charges.
Mrs L has been caused a significant  degree of inconvenience here.  There was the initial  
failed collection,  followed by incorrect/misleading  information about collection times, followed 
by a lack of joined up communication. The car was taking up space which  was needed for 
another vehicle  and this was causing  issues with Mrs Ls neighbours. Ultimately Mrs L had to 
take a day off work which could have been  avoided if the car had been collected on the 
original collection date.  Because of this I think Lex Autolease should compensate  Mrs L for 
the inconvenience caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Lex Autolease  Ltd should:
Waive the additional  rental charges
Remove any adverse  information from Mrs Ls credit file
Pay compensation for distress and inconvenience of £250
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0848008