K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont  refund her a payment 
made on her debit card that she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.  
Miss M has been helped  with her application  by a representative, but for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to all submissions as having  been  made  by Miss M herself.
background
Miss M says that she received a text message informing her the payment method linked to 
her phone had expired.  She says she followed the link provided within the message which  
took her to what she believed was a genuine  website, where she entered  her debit card 
details. 
The following  day Miss M noticed on her online banking that there was a pending transaction 
for £428.49 that she didnt recognise.  This was for an online purchase. So she contacted 
RBS and asked  them to stop the transaction. RBS explained that it isnt possible to stop a 
pending transaction, but looked into her request that the transaction  be refunded  to her. 
RBS went on to conclude  that as Miss M had provided her card details to a third party,  they 
wouldnt agree  to refund her the £429.49.  Being unhappy with this Miss M referred  the 
matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  he 
concluded it was more likely than not that Miss M or someone authorised by her made the 
transaction in question.
Miss M maintains that she knew nothing about the transaction  until she noticed  and disputed 
it. She says she wouldnt have tried to stop the transaction if she had authorised it herself. 
Miss M has asked that an ombudsman review the complaint. 
Prior to issuing my decision  I let Miss M know that I wasnt intending to uphold  her complaint. 
In summary  I explained that what she says happened wasnt consistent  with the evidence 
RBS had provided. I asked her to confirm what shed already told us was an accurate 
reflection of the events  which she did. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  overall  outcome  as our investigator and for much  the 
same reasons. 
Generally, RBS can only hold Miss M liable for the disputed transaction  if the evidence  
suggests that its more  likely than not that she made or authorised it herself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that the transaction  in question  was 
authenticated using the full details of Miss Ms card including the security number from the 
rear of the card as well as her personal  information.  But the regulations  relevant to this type 
of case say that is not, on its own, enough  to enable RBS to hold her liable. So I also need to 
Ref: DRN00843672think about whether  the evidence suggests  that its more likely  than not that Miss M 
consented to the transaction  being  made.  
The following  timeline is useful in assessing the events of 13 April 2018. It is based on 
information recorded at the time on RBSs  systems.  
1241 hours  £400 was transferred  to Miss Ms current account from her savings account. 
Following this the current account had a credit balance  of £463.25.
1250 hours  The £428.49  transaction that Miss M disputes was made  online.
1541 hours Miss M first contacts RBS to dispute  the transaction.  
Miss M says that she didnt transfer the £400 between her accounts nor did she make  the 
transaction for £428.49.  She says the merchant later told her the goods ordered  were 
delivered to an address  several hundred miles from her home address.  
RBS have provided further technical  evidence which shows that the £400  transfer  was made 
through their online banking app. Theyve also shown that this was completed from the same 
device that Miss M had used to access the app since 25 February  2018.  Theyve  also shown 
that this device continued to be used until 19 June 2018. Miss M says it isnt possible that 
someone else had accessed her online  banking  from her device as her phone was in her 
possession and is fingerprint and passcode protected.  
I find the technical evidence from RBS more  persuasive than Miss Ms testimony. So I 
accept that the transfer came from Miss Ms own device, which she says only she had 
access to. 
In cases like this where  there  are conflicting  accounts; I have to make my decision based on 
the balance of probabilities. There are three main possible scenarios that Ive considered.
was the transaction made by an unknown third party?
Miss M hasnt been able to provide evidence of the text message in question  as it has been 
deleted. But I accept that Miss M provided  her debit card details when she responded to the 
text. 
The disputed transaction cleared the majority  of the funds from Miss Ms account. RBS has 
evidenced that Miss Ms account didnt have  an overdraft,  and say an attempt to spend more 
money than was in the account  would  have failed. I dont think its likely  that an unknown 
third party would have  had knowledge  of the balance of the account nor that the account 
didnt have an overdraft.  Particularly when that balance had only been  in place for nine 
minutes prior to the transaction taking place.  
Typically a scammer will try to obtain the maximum benefit, as quickly  as possible.  But there 
isnt record of any further attempted transactions, which although they might  have not gone  
through due to a lack of funds, would still have been  indicative of use by an unknown third 
party. 
So overall Im not persuaded that its likely the transaction was made by an unknown third 
party. 
Ref: DRN00843673was the transaction made by a known third party?
Ive considered whether or not its likely the transaction  was made  by someone known to 
Miss M without her consent or knowledge. Miss Ms own evidence  supports that her phone is 
both passcode and fingerprint protected. In addition to this her account is that her debit card 
details were provided online in response to the text. So I think  its unlikely that someone she 
knows would  be responsible for this or able to access her online banking  from her phone  
without her knowledge. 
Taking all of this into consideration, Im not persuaded that a known third party  made the 
disputed transaction.   
was the transaction was either made  or otherwise authorised by Miss M?
On the face of it, I accept it appears  unlikely  that Miss M would  want  to order goods to be 
delivered to an address  other than her own. This is in part why I gave Miss M a further 
opportunity to clarify her account  of events to our service. There is evidence  to support that 
Miss M tried to stop the transaction within  hours and whilst  it was still pending. I accept that 
this supports her version of events.  But I find RBSs  technical evidence  persuasive. The 
online transfer that enabled  the transaction to take place only nine minutes later came from 
the device Miss M had been using for her online banking for a number of months. 
Someone would have  had to have made the transfer  from Miss Ms phone. This would have 
involved getting past the security on both the phone and online banking app to do so. They 
then would have  needed to have  replaced the phone without Miss M noticing. And then gone  
online to make the purchase  using the full details of her debit card and further personal 
information specific to Miss M. I dont  think this is likely. 
So taking everything into consideration, I find, on balance that Miss M authorised the 
disputed transaction.  It follows  that RBS are entitled to hold her liable for it. Based on 
everything Ive seen, I think its fair and reasonable for RBS to refuse to refund that amount 
because, overall,  I think its more  likely  than not that Miss M made or authorised the 
transaction that she disputes. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0084367