K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Lloyds Bank plc wont refund money he sent for the purchase of a 
mobile phone that wasnt  delivered  to him. 
background
Mr L has explained that he found a mobile phone he wanted to buy on a well-known auction 
site. He agreed a price  with the seller  and arranged to transfer £360 from his Lloyds account 
to the sellers account at TSB. Mr L waited a couple of days for the phone to arrive and, 
when it didnt, he contacted Lloyds. Lloyds  in turn contacted TSB, but was told that its 
customer had withdrawn  the funds almost  as soon as they had arrived  in the account. Lloyds 
told Mr L that, as it hadnt been able to recover any money, it wouldnt reimburse him. He 
had authorised the payment, and so it wasnt obliged to do any more. 
Mr L referred his complaint to this service,  where one of our adjudicators  considered it. She 
agreed though  that Lloyds wasnt responsible for any losses  that Mr L had suffered. Whilst 
she was sympathetic towards  Mr L, he had made  the payment.  By the time it became clear 
that he wouldnt receive what hed paid for, it was too late for Lloyds to retrieve that payment. 
Mr L didnt accept the adjudicators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. He says that the banks fraud  protection policies should have protected him, and that 
it should have  explained more clearly  that they didnt. Had he understood that, he wouldnt 
have made  the payment in the way he did. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive come to 
the same  conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Where a customer authorises a payment from their account, the starting point is that the 
bank should make that payment. As long as funds are available, a bank shouldnt decline to 
make a payment  that its customer has authorised, unless there are very unusual  
circumstances. In this case,  the payment was authorised  in the sense that Mr L intended to 
make it. He expected  however to receive  something  in return from the seller.  
Mr L says he was the victim of a scam; that is, he believes the seller didnt intend to send  
him the phone and, in effect,  tricked  him into making the payment. Im prepared to accept 
that thats the case here and that he has therefore  lost out. 
In these circumstances, we would expect a sending bank (in this case,  Lloyds) to contact the 
receiving bank (TSB) to establish what happened so that funds can be retrieved if 
appropriate. In this case, however, the money that Mr L sent had been removed from the 
TSB by the time Mr L realised there was a problem.  Of course,  that problem would not have  
come to light until a few days later, when Mr L realised that he probably wasnt  going  to 
receive the phone  hed paid for. Mr L has suggested that the transfer  took place too quickly, 
because it was initiated after business hours and made almost immediately. There  was 
however no reason for him to think that an electronic  payment would be delayed; nor would 
it have made  any difference, since it would still have been a further two days  before he 
contacted Lloyds.    
Additional protection would have been provided  had Mr L made payment though the auction  
website. And the card schemes provide some protection where payment is made using a 
Ref: DRN09921752credit or debit card. But Mr L didnt make  payment  using either  of those methods; he simply 
made a transfer  of funds to the seller of the phone. I dont believe that anything Lloyds told 
him could  reasonably have led him to believe that he would have the benefit  of the banks 
fraud protection in these circumstances. That would  have  meant,  in effect,  that the bank was 
guaranteeing delivery of goods, even  when it had no knowledge of or control over the 
underlying transaction. 
I note that Mr L had paid the same person on at least two earlier occasions, and had 
received refunds. I dont believe that was an indication that the bank  would provide refunds  
in all circumstances. For these reasons, I dont  believe it would be fair to require it to 
reimburse Mr L here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank plc to take any further steps to resolve 
Mr Ls complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0992175