K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  Barclays  Bank  UK PLC hasnt returned all their deeds after they 
redeemed their mortgage.
background 
When Mr and Mrs B complained to Barclays it wasnt able to locate any of older documents 
Mr and Mrs B had described. It received title documents  from Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors in 
2002. It says it returned all the documents which were listed on the schedule. And none of 
these documents  dated from 1800s. It says it didnt ever have these older documents. But 
accepts it gave Mr and Mrs B inaccurate  and contradictory information  and so would like to 
offer Mr and Mrs B £100  compensation.
The adjudicator reviewed the schedule  of documents sent by Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor  to 
Barclays in 2002.  He could see no mention of the original  deeds  being sent to Barclays. He 
thought when the charge  on the property was released in May 2018, Barclays  sent all 
documents it held in relation to the property, which were the same  documents received by it 
in February 2002.  He thought it's fair to believe if Barclays  had received the original deeds in 
2002 it would have sent them back to Mr and Mrs B along with all other documents  they had 
received. He thought the £100 Barclays had offered was fair compensation for the 
inaccurate and contradictory  information  it had given.
Mrs B doesnt think it would make sense  for Barclays  not to require the original deeds as 
security. She also doesnt think  given their size and binding   her solicitors would have 
made copies.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs B are very upset about the loss of some  of the historic 
documents relating to their property. I have seen many of these  old pre-registration title 
documents and they can be both fascinating and beautiful.
But Im afraid I have to agree with the adjudicator that the evidence Ive seen doesnt support  
Mr and Mrs Bs belief  that the older  documents were  ever sent to Barclays.  In the schedule  
of deeds and documents the older  deeds  arent  listed yet other documents   for example 
even a drainage  search  is listed. This suggests to me that the list of documents is 
comprehensive and each individual documents listed was sent and no more  were sent. 
There is no mention of any document which is older  than 1984 and so I dont think  the older 
document were  included.  
It doesnt surprise me that the older documents werent included,  as following registration of 
land, lawyers and banks often take the view that these older documents  dont form part of 
the title documents any more. And the documents themselves  are often valued more for their 
historic and aesthetic properties.
I think Barclays was right to accept that it hadnt been as clear with Mr and Mrs B as it could 
have been and to offer them £100. This strikes me as fair compensation for its failure to 
explain clearly and early on it didnt ever have  these older documents.
Ref: DRN09928862my final decision
I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr and Mrs B £100 as it has offered to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0992886