K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about the balance of his mortgage with Kensington Mortgage  Company 
Limited, and about  changes  to his monthly  payments when interest  rates changed.
background
Mr E took out this mortgage with another  lender  in around 1998.  The mortgage was 
transferred to Kensington around  five years ago. 
In the past, Mr E has been in arrears  and the previous lender added various fees and 
charges to the account. Weve dealt  with complaints about that in the past so I wont  revisit 
that here.
This complaint is about changes Kensington made to the monthly  payments in the last 
couple of years before Mr E redeemed the mortgage. He says the payments went  up by far 
more than the amount the interest  rate changed by. And he questions  the closing  balance  of 
the loan when he redeemed it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the history of the account  and whats happened to it, especially  in recent 
years. Weve explained in previous complaints  why we cant look at fees and charges added  
by the previous lender.  But by the time Kensington took over the loan there  was a fees and 
charges balance of over £16,000.
Neither the previous lender nor Kensington included the fees and charges balance in the 
monthly payments  they set. That means that Mr E was making payments each month,  and 
was paying back  the capital he had originally borrowed, and interest charged. But he wasnt  
paying back any of the fees charged  since the loan was taken out. Kensington wrote  to him 
to explain this, and said he would have to make  arrangements to ensure that balance was 
paid back by the end of the term. 
Because of the payments Mr E had missed  in the past,  his loan balance hadnt reduced  as 
quickly as it would have  done had he made all the payments on time. This means that his 
balance was higher than it should have been during  the life of the loan  increasing the 
interest he was charged.
And, also, interest was charged on the fees balance, which  wasnt  reducing at all. Because  
the fees balance was so high, this interest  was quite substantial.
Kensington revisited Mr Es loan balance each  time its interest rate changed. When  the 
interest rate changed, it re-calculated how much Mr E would have to pay to repay the main 
balance, including  additional interest  charged  in the meantime,  (but not the fees and charges 
balance) then outstanding  by the end of the term.
When the interest rate changed  again,  Kensington re-calculated how much  he would have to 
pay. Because the fees balance hadnt  reduced, significant interest had continued  to be 
charged on it  which  was added to the amount to be paid back  by the end of the term. As a 
Ref: DRN03149312result, the monthly payment required increased  by more than just the change in interest rate. 
This was because there was also additional  interest on historic unpaid fees to be factored in.
Mr E was very close  to the end of the term. When there are very few months left in which to 
repay it, additional interest also has to be paid back over a very short time. The shorter the 
time period is for repayment  means  a higher amount that has to be repaid each month. 
Thats why the payment  increased by more  than Mr E was expecting each time  and why 
the last increase, when the interest  rate changed with only one month  of the term left  was 
so substantial.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service doesnt  have the facilities  to carry out a detailed  audit of 
an account. So Ive not been  able to confirm the precise accuracy  of each of the changes to 
the monthly payments. But having  reviewed  the account history,  and considered  what both 
parties have to say, Im not persuaded on the evidence  Ive seen that Kensington has made 
any error in the amounts it has charged. I dont  therefore uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0314931