K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide  Building  Society passed his personal data relating to his 
home insurance policy from one underwriter  to another without his express permission. He 
also complains that Nationwide misled him and provided him with poor customer  service 
when he called to make his complaint. 
background
Towards the end of 2017, Nationwide decided to launch a new home insurance product 
underwritten by a new underwriter (underwriter B). For a number of years prior to that, 
Nationwides home insurance product had been  underwritten by underwriter A. Itd decided 
to migrate its home insurance customers from underwriter A to underwriter B over the next 
year or so as and when each individual policy came  up for renewal. 
Around 45 days before Mr Ws policy was due to renew  in 2018, he received a letter from 
Nationwide explaining that if he decided to renew his policy then it would now be 
underwritten and administered by underwriter B. Nationwide said that it regularly reviewed its 
suppliers and having done  so itd decided to choose underwriter B. The letter  went on to say 
that Mr W didnt  need  to do anything because Nationwide had made sure that underwriter B 
had all the information it needed in order to send him a new quote which he could expect to 
receive in a few weeks time. Nationwide finished the letter by stating that if Mr W preferred 
not to renew this year, or had any questions, then he should  get in touch. 
Mr W phoned the number  on the letter and complained. On making the call he was unhappy 
to discover it was answered  by underwriter B and not Nationwide. He said he wanted to 
complain that his data had been transferred from underwriter A to underwriter B without  his 
consent. Mr Ws call was then transferred to Nationwide to log his complaint. 
In addition to complaining  about the transfer  of his data, Mr W also said he thought the letter 
hed received was misleading because it was on Nationwide headed paper yet the phone  
number given for customers to call was answered  by underwriter B but the letter didnt make 
that clear.  Finally he said that when he did call Nationwides  customer  complaints line hed 
received an unsatisfactory service. He said hed only wanted to log his complaints yet was 
passed around on the phone for over an hour.  
Exasperated, Mr W called Nationwides CEO. One of Nationwides member relations 
executives called him back and explained  that there was a term in his existing policy that 
allowed it to pass his details to other  parties so Nationwide hadnt done anything  wrong.  It 
said it was sorry if he found  the letter hed been sent misleading but the telephone number 
provided was for underwriter Bs dedicated  Nationwide members call centre.  Because  of the 
inconvenience hed been caused by spending so much time on the phone, and the poor 
service hed received  trying to log his complaint, Nationwide  offered Mr W compensation of 
£50. Mr W declined to accept it. 
Mr W complained  to this service. He said he wanted  Nationwide  to admit  itd breached his 
data and that the letter itd sent was misleading.  He also said he wanted  an assurance that 
people could  make  complaints  easier  in the future, an apology, and Nationwide fined and 
reprimanded. 
Ref: DRN09212542Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt think  Nationwide  had treated him 
unfairly or unreasonably so he didnt recommend the complaint was upheld.  Mr W asked for 
his complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
data breach
This service is unable to look into complaints about  breaches of data protection  legislation. 
That is the responsibility of the Information Commissioners Office.  All I can consider  here is 
whether Nationwide treated Mr W fairly when notifying him that it was changing underwriters. 
I have to say that I think it did. The contract  terms are set out in the policy booklet. And can 
see they state within the section relating to privacy, under the heading Use of your 
information by Nationwide:
Any information  about you, others  named on the policy, your policy  and any optional  covers 
may be disclosed by Nationwide to other parties(including insurers,  reinsurers and 
administration companies) in order for Nationwide to deliver its intermediary services, 
provide you continuity  of cover and optimise the insurance services that you receive.  It may 
also be shared with other organisations for the purposes of them  providing products  and 
services in association  with or on behalf  of Nationwide.
Nationwide added this wording to the policy terms, and notified its members in their renewal 
documents, the year prior to the migration  of its customers. So Im satisfied that, by 
proceeding with the 2017 renewal on the terms offered, Mr W consented to Nationwide 
disclosing his personal information to third parties.  That means I dont  think  that Nationwide  
has done anything  wrong or that it treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably by passing  his 
information on to underwriter B. 
misleading information in the letter
Mr W wants Nationwide to admit the letter it sent him  containing a phone number which  
connected him to underwriter B  was misleading.  Nationwide has said that the number 
provided was for underwriter Bs dedicated  call centre  for Nationwide customers  who have a 
policy with underwriter B. Nationwide has apologised if Mr W found this to be misleading. 
Im unable to compel a business to admit  something. Nor am I able to interfere with how a 
financial business organises and structures itself. I can only look at whether  Nationwide has 
treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably and I dont think  it has. I appreciate that Mr W thinks 
the way Nationwide handled  his calls and his concerns about the letter was inadequate and 
unacceptable but I can see that it has apologised  and said there  was no intention  on its part 
to send a misleading  letter. I think thats  reasonable in the circumstances. Although  Mr W 
expected to speak to Nationwide  when he first made the call I can see that he was still able 
to log his complaint  so I dont think Nationwide needs to do any more.  
Ref: DRN09212543customer service
Mr W is unhappy about the service he received from Nationwide when he called to log his 
complaint. He also says that he wants an assurance that people can make  complaints easier 
in the future, an apology, and Nationwide fined  and reprimanded.  
This service is unable to consider complaints about  how a financial business has handled a 
complaint. Thats because complaints handling isnt a regulated  activity.  Nor is this service  
the industry regulator. We are here to look into individual consumer  complaints  not to fine or 
reprimand financial businesses. 
I can see that Nationwide has accepted  that Mr W didnt receive the level of customer 
service he couldve expected when calling about  his complaint. I can see it has apologised 
for this and offered him compensation  of £50 which he declined. Mr W has said he thinks  
that £50 is nowhere  near enough  because he spent  so long on his mobile phone and gave 
up so much of his time. 
When deciding what fair compensation  should be awarded I have to have regard to all the 
circumstances of a complaint along with this services approach to such awards  in general. 
Our awards  arent intended  to be punitive.  Whilst I appreciate the second call Mr W made 
was in excess of an hour long, and that he was passed  around  between call handlers,  I can 
also see that Nationwide has apologised to him for the poor customer service  he received 
and offered him compensation of £50 for any inconvenience he was caused.  I think  thats fair 
in the circumstances of this complaint  and in line with awards this service has made in 
similar complaints. Indeed, if this complaint had passed across my desk  without an award of 
compensation having been made its unlikely Id have awarded  any more.  
So, I dont think Nationwide should  be made  to do any more  here.  I appreciate that will come  
as a disappointment  to Mr W but I dont think increasing the amount of compensation 
Nationwide should  pay him would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before date 27 May 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0921254