K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Halifax has shown us a copy of the credit  card application signed by Mr L in 2002. I can see 
the application form contains a box that needed to be crossed to add PPI to the account.  I 
can see the box has been marked with a cross. I note there was another  type of insurance 
also available but the box for that product has been  left blank. And I note the PPI remained 
on Mr Ls account for quite a time.  During that time the premiums wouldve appeared on     
Mr Ls statements. If Mr L hadnt  chosen  to add PPI or didnt want it on his account Id expect 
him to have  questioned it at an early stage.  But Ive seen no evidence that he did.
The cross accepting  the PPI has been printed on the form. But the credit card was opened  
during a meeting at a branch. I think its most likely a discussion took place about the credit  
card application  and the PPI was selected during  that discussion. Overall I think  Halifax  
made it clear  that Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although 
I can understand why he cant remember this after so many years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr L so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr L about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr L has said - including what he has said about being entitled  
to sick pay from his employer. Mr L has told us hed receive six months full pay and six 
months half pay if he became unwell.  But the PPI sold to him wouldve paid a monthly 
benefit on top of any sick pay. And the monthly  benefit  couldve paid out for up to 12 months,  
which is longer than his full sick pay lasted.  Itd also have paid out for up to 12 months  if Mr L 
lost his job. So I still think Mr L wouldve found  the policy useful if things went  wrong.
In summary  I think its likely the PPI was presented  as being optional and that Mr L chose to 
take it out. I think it was right for him and even if Halifax had given Mr L all the clear 
information it shouldve,  I still think hed have bought it.
Ref: DRN09753922my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Bank of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0975392