K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained about U K Insurance Limited  through her representative. She isnt 
happy about the valuation  of her car following a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
background
Mrs H made  a claim on her car insurance policy after she was involved in a non-fault 
accident. UKI decided  her car was a write-off and offered  Mrs H the market value - £4,980.  
But Mrs H wasnt  able to buy a similar  car, with similar mileage and extras  for that amount. 
Mrs H had to pay a lot more for a similar car (about £1,000)  so she complained to UKI and 
then this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. She looked at all 
the motor valuation guides in order to see if UKIs valuation seemed fair. And as the guides 
came back  with similar values she decided UKIs offer was reasonable and in line with the 
policy terms and conditions of the policy. 
As Mrs H didnt  agree the matter has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
When looking at valuations placed  on cars by insurance companies I consider the approach 
they have adopted. And decide  whether or not the valuation  is fair in all the circumstances. 
As outlined  by the adjudicator this service pays particular attention to the various trade 
guides used for valuing  cars, as well as other evidence  provided by both sides. 
This evidence might  include advertisements for the sale of similar cars and magazine 
articles; although I place less weight on advertisements than on the trade guides. This is 
because cars dont generally  sell for the price  at which they are advertised.  The condition of 
the car at the time the damage occurred is also an important factor to consider. I will only tell 
a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
In this instance Mrs H has said that she has been  unable to find a similar car for the price  
UKI has offered  and has had to pay more for a slightly newer car but with more  miles. She 
feels that the market  place has dictated this and so the guides  shouldnt be followed.
While I can understand her frustration the guides are based around  sales from around the 
time she was involved  in the accident.  Valuing  cars is far from an exact  science and it isnt 
this services role to provide a valuation. Just to gauge if the insurers  offer seems  fair.
 
And as the guides have suggested  a value, for her particular make  and model  of car, in line 
with the offer UKI has made I cant say it has acted unreasonably.
Finally, I know  Mrs H also wanted  UKI to consider arranging a replacement vehicle for her. 
But it has explained that it is only able to do this if a consumer accepts the market value 
Ref: DRN04041732offered. And as Mrs H didnt accept the offer it was unable  to look at this possibility which I 
dont think is unreasonable.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0404173