K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that AXA Insurance Plc mis-sold  a life, accident & sickness  and 
unemployment policy to him.
For simplicity I will refer only to AXA, but this also includes its agents.
background
Mr W was sold the lifestyle  protection  policy over the telephone in January 2009. He said 
that he was told he would  receive  £590  a month if he was unable  to work but that he would 
receive a lump sum if he didnt claim on the policy  for 10 years. In 2019  he contacted the 
insurer to claim  the lump sum but was told no cash  back  was due.
Mr W complained  and our investigator  considered the complaint. However  as the policy  had 
been sold on a non-advised  basis and the policy documentation was clear, she didnt find 
that the policy had been mis-sold.
Mr W appealed. He maintained that the policy had been mis-sold to him because  what  he 
was told isnt in fact what the policy  offers. He also queried why the policy  benefit reduced  
without his agreement. Our investigator  explained why the benefit had reduced  but Mr W 
remained unhappy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is now no record of the telephone  conversation that took place when the policy  was 
sold in 2009. Thats not surprising given the passage of time. So I have looked  carefully  at 
the other documentation  from the time. 
Firstly I understand that before the conversation went ahead  a recorded message warned 
that no advice  or recommendation  was offered. Once the customer service representative 
answered the telephone  there is a script  that they were supposed to follow.  Now I do accept 
that its possible the representative  went off script,  but I think  it more likely than not that the 
gist of the script was followed.  That would mean  that the representative explained that they 
were only providing limited details and it was for Mr W to check that the policy was right for 
him.
Mr Ws partner  has said that it was she that had the conversation with the adviser, repeating  
what the adviser had said to Mr W. Although I have no doubt that her recollection is genuine, 
I think that a third person relaying the information may have increased the chance of 
misunderstanding. 
None of the documentation  sent to Mr W mentions  a lump sum would be paid if a claim 
wasnt made. It does say that a lump sum would be paid if the policyholder dies during the 
period of insurance, but thats quite different to what Mr W understood. 
However AXAs system notes show that Mr W called  in December 2009. He queried the 
premium increase that had been  applied.  He was advised the free £100 benefit  period had 
ended so the premium  had increased to cover  £690. AXA explained to him that if he wanted 
Ref: DRN09697642to pay the same premium  he could  but cover would  be reduced to £590. He agreed  to take 
that option. The notes show that he was also advised at that time that he wouldnt receive a 
refund if no claim was made on the policy.
Im satisfied that the policy  document clearly sets out the cover  offered. If Mr W initially 
thought that he would receive a refund, he was advised that this wasnt correct in 2009.  If the 
policy wasnt suitable for Mr Ws needs he could have cancelled  it at any time.
I understand that Mr W will be disappointed by my decision, but on the evidence before me I 
dont find that the policy  was mis-sold to him.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against AXA 
Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0969764