K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society used funds from his savings account to 
reduce the outstanding balance on his credit  card. 
background
Mr B has a credit card, savings account  and current account with Nationwide. In 2018 he 
told Nationwide hed been made  redundant and it agreed that he didnt have to make  any 
payments towards  his credit card between  September  2018 and February 2019. 
Nationwide says it wrote  to Mr B on 5 February 2019 and asked him to get in touch  so it 
could discuss his credit  card. When it didnt hear back  from Mr B, Nationwide  says it wrote to 
him again on 26 February 2019.  Nationwide says this letter  explained it intended to use 
funds Mr B had in his savings account  to reduce the balance on his credit card. 
Nationwide didnt hear back from Mr B so on 14 March 2019 it took £2,394.83 from Mr Bs 
savings and used  it to reduce the credit  card balance to £8,879.78. 
Mr B complained and explained that he hadnt  received the letters Nationwide  sent in the run 
up to its decision to take funds out of his savings account. Nationwide  responded on 
2 April 2019 but didnt agree an error had been  made. Mr B referred his complaint to our 
service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator thought Nationwide had acted 
in line with the terms of Mr Bs credit card and didnt ask it to refund the money it had taken. 
Mr B reiterated that he hadnt received Nationwides letters and said its decision left him 
without funds. Mr B asked to appeal  so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Bs been through a very difficult time which is why he wasnt  able to make his 
payments. Ive focused on whether  Nationwide  has treated him positively and 
sympathetically whilst hes experienced financial difficulties and whether its acted in line with 
the account terms. 
Ive looked at Nationwides contact notes  and I can see that Nationwide agreed a nil 
payment plan with Mr B in August 2018. That meant Mr B didnt have to make any payments 
between September  2018  and February  2019. I think  that shows  Nationwide  wanted to help 
and provide Mr B with some breathing space. 
But Nationwides agreement was for a six month period and at its end Mr B needed to make  
contact to discuss his situation or arrange to reduce  his outstanding balance. Nationwide 
didnt hear back from Mr B and says it wrote to him on 5 February 2019 to ask him to get in 
touch and discuss his credit card. 
Ref: DRN08984672Nationwide didnt get a response  so it wrote to Mr B again on 26 February 2019 to say it had 
frozen his savings account and would use the funds  to reduce his credit card debt if it didnt 
hear back from him in 14 days. Nationwide says Mr B didnt make any further contact so on 
14 March 2019  it took £2,394.83 from his savings account and used it to reduce the credit  
card debt. 
One of Mr Bs main  points  is that he didnt receive Nationwides  letters about its decision to 
offset the money he had in his savings  account.  Mr B says theres  no proof that Nationwide  
sent its letter and no proof it was delivered. Mr B says important information should  be sent 
via recorded delivery to ensure its received. I agree that the letters Nationwide  sent were 
important but theres nothing in the regulations it operates under or the account terms for his 
savings or credit card that says Nationwide will send letters via recorded delivery. And whilst 
I note Mr Bs comments, Nationwide is able to send letters in the post.  
Mr B says he didnt receive  the letters. But Nationwide has sent us systems evidence  to 
show the letter was sent to Mr B on 26 February 2019 explaining its intentions. Where 
information is disputed  or incomplete, Ill base my decision on the balance  of probability. 
That is, what I consider  most  likely to have  happened based on all the available information. 
I note that Nationwides address information  is in line with the details we hold and Im 
satisfied the systems evidence shows an offset letter was sent. Taking  everything  Ive seen 
together, Im satisfied  Nationwide  did send Mr B a letter on 26 February  2019.
Ive also looked  at the account terms for Mr Bs credit card and can see that they allow  
Nationwide to use funds  a credit card holder  has in savings to reduce  an outstanding 
balance. So I dont  think its made a mistake by taking that step.  
Mr B says Nationwides decision left him without funds for essential expenses  and living  
costs. Whilst I can see that Mr B was transferring funds in his savings account and using 
them, in part, for living costs, I have to take into account that Nationwides  agreement  to put 
his credit card on hold for six months  had ended.  As a result, it was up to Mr B to discuss his 
circumstances and options. Ive explained above  why Im satisfied that Nationwide wrote to 
Mr B about  his credit card in February 2019.  Without a response or any new information, I 
think Nationwides decision to use funds held in Mr Bs savings account was reasonable. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr B but Im satisfied  Nationwide wrote to him about its intentions on 
26 February 2019. I havent  been persuaded that Nationwide has treated Mr B unfairly by 
using the money  in his savings account to reduce his outstanding credit  card balance. As a 
result, Im not telling Nationwide to do anything  else to resolve  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN08984673my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0898467