K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  about the changes brought in by Aldermore Bank Plc. 
In summary,  she feels the changes  are unfair  and not what she had agreed  to.  
background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
He had considered all the available  evidence. Unless specifically asked for, our 
service wouldnt generally provide the evidence it has relied on along with a view. 
Ms S is bound by the terms and conditions agreed with the business. The wide terms 
around variances  to terms are common industry practice, and are in line with the 
industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority,  which  enable  a business to make 
changes in future. Its not for us to dictate  how it should run its business.  
Because the business made its terms clear from the outset, its entitled to make 
changes without requiring  agreement with Ms S each time. 
Unless the level of service provided  fell below the standard it agreed to, or the 
information provided was insufficient, our service wont  generally  get involved.
In this instance, Ms S was notified  that from October 2018 certain activities  could  
only be done online. The correspondence  although undated suggests it was sent 
around April/May 2018, five or six months in advance.    
It was overall a commercial decision the business was entitled to make.  That said it 
did offer Ms S the opportunity to present  her case to see if there  were  exceptional  
circumstances that would entitle her to continue to receive paper statements.    
Ms S disagreed with the investigators view. In summary he said:  
Shes unhappy about the business disclosing statements to us. The release of the 
data doesnt match  our own criteria. 
Shes astonished that we dont usually send information weve  relied on with our 
decision.  
She feels the businesses terms and conditions fall short of the FCAs requirements.
She says the business has written to her to say it would continue  to send her 
hardcopy statements. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, despite  
what Ms S says,  Im not satisfied that the business has acted  unreasonably.   
Ref: DRN06732302But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Ms Ss strength of feeling  about  this matter.
Ms S has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Ms S and the business, and reach what I think  is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I appreciate a change  in how a business has traditionally operated  can cause some 
customers inconvenience. Im conscious Ms S might  feel it wasnt  what shed originally 
signed up for. But in this instance given the terms and conditions of the agreement between 
her and the business, Im satisfied that the business  is entitled to do what it has done.  
I note Ms S feels  these  terms are unfair  and contrary  to FCA principles. But on balance, Im 
not persuaded that they are. These  types of terms and conditions  are not uncommon 
industry practice and not unique to the business, that enables businesses to make changes 
with the times.   
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the business decision to 
move some of its paper services exclusively online was in the legitimate exercise of its 
commercial judgement which means, I cant blame  it for doing so. And its also not for our 
service to tell it how to run its business.  
Furthermore, it doesnt mean the business  has acted unreasonably, so long as it has acted 
within the terms and conditions of its agreement with Ms S, and has informed her of any 
material changes in advance giving her sufficient time to change  accounts without being 
penalised in any way. In this instance it has given her five/six months notice which  on 
balance I think is reasonable. But the business  isnt required to obtain Ms Ss authorisation 
before it can implement changes. 
I note the business has given Ms S the opportunity to present evidence of exceptional 
hardship that would  allow  it to make  an exception in her case,  which I think  is fair and 
reasonable in this instance. If it is satisfied that there  are exceptional  circumstances, then as 
Ms S suggests it will have to agree to continue to send her paper statements. 
Its not the role of our service to go out and gather evidence. Its for the parties  to provide us 
with the evidence that theyd like us to consider. Unless  I think  I need further evidence  to 
help me make a decision  Im duty bound to consider the evidence  provided  Im not 
required to ask for more  information. 
Despite what Ms S says,  its also not our normal practice to pass on  as a matter of routine 
 the full business file along with a view/decision. That said, under the principles of natural 
justice and transparency, of course we endeavour to ensure that the parties have seen the 
evidence were relying upon.  I note Ms S has asked for evidence,  and this has been  
provided to her by our investigator. 
Ref: DRN06732303I appreciate Ms S will be unhappy Ive reached  the same conclusion  as the investigator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what she wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what she wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0673230