K822xcomplaint
Ms M was unhappy about with U K Insurance Limiteds service under her motor  insurance 
policy after she made a claim. 
background 
Ms M claimed  under  her policy for accident  damage. UKI decided  that her car was 
uneconomical to repair  and settled  her claim. But when  she tried to insure her new car on 
the policy, she said that UKIs actions made  her doubt she was insured and this caused her 
anxiety. She was also unhappy  that theyd put her premium up. UKI accepted theyd made  
some mistakes,  but felt that Ms M should  have known that her new car was insured with 
them. They offered her some compensation but she didnt think  it was enough. 
The adjudicator thought  that UKIs service mistakes warranted further  compensation, but 
UKI didnt  agree and so Ive been asked to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI settled  Ms Ms claim for her old car and told her that they would also insure a new car 
under her policy. I think that was fair of them, and in line with what wed expect. But UKI then 
wrote to her asking her to return her insurance  certificate. She said that this made  her think 
that she could  no longer  use the policy and that UKI were going to keep all the money shed 
paid. 
Ive seen UKIs letter and it said that her policy had been suspended but she could  contact 
them if she wanted to put a new car on the policy,  subject possibly to an increased premium. 
UKI said that this was a standard letter that they sent to all customers  in her circumstances, 
but that they were happy for Ms M to carry on paying her monthly premiums and to continue  
with the cover when  she bought a new car, although  the premium might  change.  But she felt 
that its wording was not clear and the uncertainty worried her at a time when she still feeling  
upset by the accident. She was unhappy that she had to keep  phoning them to check what 
they meant.
She was also unhappy  that, when she did buy a new car, UKI increased her premium  by 
about £30. She felt that this charge was unfair,  particularly when her new car was of a lower  
specification than her old car. UKI explained  that it wasnt  a charge but was due to her 
premium rating being higher because of the new car. But while a premium is a matter for 
UKIs commercial judgment, I think that they could have done more to explain the premium 
change to her before  making it. 
Then UKI sent Ms M an insurance certificate  for the new car which mistakenly referred  to her 
old car instead. This worried  her more, as she was again unsure whether she was insured or 
not. She phoned  to ask them and their operative confirmed she was insured for her new car. 
But Ms M wanted reassurance from the UKI staff member whod been  dealing with her 
before. However  due to a mistake, UKI didnt ask that staff member  to call Ms M back. When  
Ms M brought her complaint to us, she said she still didnt know if she was insured or not. 
Ref: DRN01547242UKI apologised for their poor service.  They paid Ms M compensation of £80 and reimbursed 
her £20 for her telephone charges. But they felt that theyd done enough to reassure her that 
she was insured for her new car. They said that theyd told her on the phone and sent her a 
new insurance certificate for her new car at the same time as they sent the wrong one for the 
old car. Ms M says she didnt receive an insurance  certificate for her new car. Its not clear  
why she didnt, and I would expect UKI to send her a replacement. But I think  that, even if 
she had got the certificate for the new car, it would still have been confusing  for her to also 
receive one for her old car at about  the same time. So I think  that UKIs  actions did cause 
her unnecessary anxiety  about whether or not she was insured. And I dont think that 
telephone reassurance by a UKI staff member  who Ms M didnt feel knew her case was 
sufficient to allay what I think were  her understandable concerns. And so I agree  with the 
adjudicators recommendation that UKI should pay her compensation of £50 in addition  to 
what they have  already  paid her. 
my final decision
For the reasons,  Ive given above  its my final decision that I uphold  this complaint. 
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Ms M £50 in compensation for her distress  and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell them  Ms M 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If UKI consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from interest, they should tell Ms M how much they have taken off, and give Ms M a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Ref: DRN0154724