K821x#15complaint
Mrs J has complained about the way her claim under  her home insurance policy  was
handled by esure Insurance  Limited.
background
Mrs J made  a claim to her insurer, esure for damage to their dining room floor in April 2018.
She said they were  unable to use their dining room for 13 weeks  and the contractor sanded
the floor three times. Mrs J explained  that the floor can only be sanded a total of five times
before it would need replacing. Mrs J said she paid £2,500 when she originally purchased
the wooden floor. She remained unhappy with the condition of the floor after the third
sanding but it was agreed that the contractor wouldnt do further  work.
Mrs J complained to esure.  In November 2018 esure upheld Mrs Js complaint. It apologised
for the distress its contractor had caused.  The contractor agreed to pay Mrs J £1,000 and
esure paid £150  compensation. So Mrs J received a total of £1,150.
Mrs J remained  unhappy and asked  us to look at her complaint. She said that due to the
damage caused by sanding  the floor, redecorating  was needed. The decorators didnt show
up when agreed.  By the time they arranged a follow up date,  Mrs J said shed  decided  to
decorate the room herself.
Mrs J wanted compensation of £1,900  plus the costs for her time and materials  decorating.
This was made up as follows:
 cleaning  fees of £180 as the contractors  didnt clean the area after finishing work on
two occasions.
 a disruption fee of £520  for the family for 13 weeks as they were unable  to use their
living room  and dining room fully.
 £1,200  equal to two fifths of the value of the floor as it was sanded two times  more      
than it should  have been and;
 a days  rate for decorating.
Mrs J provided  three estimates to replace the flooring. The investigator said these came to 
an average of £3,100.  So two fifths of this sum came to £1,240.  The investigator said the 
flooring would ordinarily need sanding every  7-10 years. So he thought it was fair for esure 
to pay Mrs J £1,240  as the contractors poor work had diminished the longevity of the floors  
life.
He asked esure to provide confirmation  of what the £1,000 the contractor paid Mrs J was for.
As esure didnt provide  this, the investigator said he couldnt conclude  it was for the
diminished flooring.  He explained we wouldnt consider compensating Mrs J specifically for
the costs of a decorator. But he recommended  esure pay Mrs J a further £1,240  and £200
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs J accepted the investigators view.
esure asked  for clarification bearing in mind it had already paid £150  compensation. The
investigator told esure the £200  he recommended could be offset against the £1,000
compensation the contractor paid Mrs J. He revised the recommended award  to £1,362:
esure said it would pay £362 in addition  to the £1,000  Mrs J had already received. 
Ref: DRN03169522This was £240 in addition to the £1,000  already paid by the contractor - and £61 for the 
redecorating materials. But it didnt agree  to pay more than this. It says the contractors 
payment of £1,000 to Mrs J should  be taken  into account.
The investigator told Mrs J esure had offered to pay an additional £362. He asked Mrs J to
let him know  if she wanted to accept. In the meantime, he explained  the case would be
passed to an ombudsman. Mrs J was happy for this to happen.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 May 2020. I thought  it was fair to take into account the 
£1,000 payment made by the contractor as esures  agent as a contribution toward the 
diminishment of Mrs Js wooden floor. 
I thought a fairer  outcome was for esure to pay £1,230 equal to two fifths  of a new 
replacement floor and £61 for the decorating costs. And I thought it should pay Mrs J £350 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.  This came to a total of £1,641.So I thought esure  
should pay Mrs J a further £491, in addition to the £1,150 shed received from esure and the 
contractor. 
esure hasnt  replied to my provisional decision.
Mrs J said her policy provides for a disruption fee while they were unable  to use heir 
bathroom. This is what she relied on when calculating a disruption  fee while unable to use 
their dining and living room. She provided an email from esure which  confirms  the £150  it 
paid her in November 2018 was for how long it was taking to deal with her claim. She said it 
was separate  to her claim for compensation from the contactor. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs J and her family were unable  to fully use their room  for 13 weeks  and this
was largely because the floor wasnt properly repaired. The contractor came back  a further
two times to rectify the floor repairs - but unsuccessfully.
Theres no dispute that esures  contractor didnt properly repair Mrs Js wooden floor. But as 
the contractor acts on behalf of esure;  I think the contractors compensation payment of 
£1,000 goes some way toward the diminishing value of Mrs Js flooring and so should be 
taken into account  here.  Even though esure  hasnt provided confirmation  of exactly what the 
payment was for, I think its fair and reasonable to assume it was in recognition of the 
contractors poor workmanship.
Mrs J provided  three estimates to replace the flooring. One of these  excluded  fitting, but
assuming it was around £800 - which is in line with the other two estimates for fitting -I find
the average of the estimates comes  to £3,073.
I agree  that it seems fair for Mrs J to be compensated by receiving the equivalent of two
fifths of the floor value  which  I find comes to £1,230. This is slightly lower than the
investigators figure, but within  the range of the £1,200 Mrs J was seeking. I also agree  that 
its fair for esure to cover the costs of the materials Mrs J paid to redecorate  the room.  
Ref: DRN03169523This was needed because  of the poor workmanship by the contractor sanding the floor.  
Mrs J said this cost £61.
When things go wrong,  we look at what an insurer did to put things right.  Its reasonable to
expect a degree of inconvenience when having  to make a claim for damage to the home.
But where an insurers actions have caused  distress  and inconvenience over and above
reasonable, we think its right that compensation should be paid.
I appreciate that Mrs J and her family  were  without the full use of their dining room and living
room for a number of weeks.  I think it was reasonable  to allow  works  of this nature to take up
to a month  to be arranged  and completed under a claim.  Mrs J has calculated a disruption
fee of £520. Some  policies  provide a daily rate for disruption: for example, where there  are 
no bathroom or kitchen  facilities  available. 
In my provisional decision I said I couldnt see that Mrs Js policy with esure provides cover 
for disruption  in this way. We asked Mrs J to provide a copy of her policy to show a 
disruption fee applies in relation to her complaint.  Mrs J provided copies of emails  relating to 
a disruption fee for not having use of her bathroom. So I havent seen anything to show  me a 
disruption fee applies for when she wasnt able to use her living room and dining room.
But for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to Mrs J, I think a fair compensation sum is
£350. From  the information I have, it seems the contractors service and workmanship was
poor causing a delay  of two months  - and the decorator failed to arrive when planned.  This
led to Mrs Js decision to carry out the decorating herself before the decorator  gave a follow
up date to arrive.
Mrs J has received £1,150 so far. I understand this was for the delay caused and poor 
workmanship by the contractor. I think its fair for esure to pay £1,230 equal to two fifths of a 
new replacement floor and £61 for the decorating costs.
So I think a fair overall compensation  award should  be £1,641  (£1,230  + £61 + £350).  As 
esure and its contractor have already paid £1,150, I think esure should pay Mrs J a further 
£491. This award is consistent with other awards we have  made in similar  circumstances to 
Mrs Js.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to pay 
Mrs J a further £491 in addition  to the £1,150 already paid.  This is made  up of £1,230 toward 
the diminishing value of the wooden floor, £61 for decorating materials  and £350 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
esure Insurance Limited  must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs J accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If esure  Insurance  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mrs J how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs J a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate
Ref: DRN03169524Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0316952