K820x#14complaint
Miss P says that Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGIL for short)  turned down her 
claim under her mobile  phone insurance  policy  unfairly.
background
Miss P has mobile phone insurance with AGIL  which she took out in 2017. In April this year 
she says she lost her phone whilst dining out with friends. She doesnt know  whether it was 
lost or stolen. She reported it to the phone company promptly.
A few days  later she put in her claim to AGIL. AGIL turned down Miss Ps claim. It said that 
the phone  had been used  after it had been lost or stolen which couldnt have happened 
unless the person using it at that time knew the password. AGIL has also pointed to changes 
made to the applications on the phone after the event could only have been made by 
someone who knew the password, passcode and application store ID.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that AGIL had treated Miss P fairly. 
But Miss P didnt agree. So this complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
AGIL and Miss P dont  agree to some of the key issues here. So I can only make  my 
decision based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short  I must  decide what is 
most likely to have happened. Having done  so, I have  decided not to uphold this complaint.
In such insurance policy  claim  situations our approach is that the claimant (Miss P in this 
case) has to show an insured event  happened  (such as losing her phone  or it being stolen). 
If the business, AGIL in this case, accepts that an insured event happened and wants to 
decline the claim, it then has to show that an exclusion applies or that the policyholder hasnt 
followed a condition of the policy.
Miss P has said that she reported her phone lost/stolen and promptly got a new phone from 
her provider. She has also put in a claim for her lost/stolen phone  with AGIL.  AGIL has 
pointed to the usage after the phone  was reported lost. It also points to changes to 
applications on the phone after it was reported  lost/stolen which  it suggests  could only have 
been made by Miss P. In essence it doesnt think Miss P has shown that an insured event 
has happened. Hence it refused her claim. And for me to uphold Miss Ps complaint I have to 
decide on balance  that AGIL has treated her unfairly.
Miss P has provided an email from her phone  company. This notes that when the 
phone was taken  off the blacklist  the phone would have  received a signal form the un-
blacklisting which would cause our system to show the device was active and received  
some sort of usage.  I think this is persuasive  in terms  of explaining why the phone 
appears to have been used after it was reported as lost. So I dont think AGIL can rely 
on this issue to show Miss P (or someone with her assistance)  was using the phone 
after it was reported  lost.
Ref: DRN04295122AGIL has also pointed  to changes  Miss P accepts she made to security applications on 
her phone which Miss P accepts she made. AGIL has said:
there is no reasonable reason for a customer  to remove these  security 
functions from the mobile  phone, other  than to relinquish ownership  as it is a 
security feature which is intended to prevent unauthorized use  of the mobile 
phone should  it be lost or stolen  and aide a customer retrieving their mobile 
phone.
I have asked Miss P about this. She has said This app has never ever helped me in the 
past so in truth I believed it was pretty useless . She has also described why she chose to 
pay for a new phone following losing it, rather than get a new phone through her insurance. 
She has essentially said she runs a business  and time was of the essence and a 
replacement phone wasnt  particularly costly  through her phone  provider.
The test I must apply here is whether  or not I think AGIL has treated Miss P fairly in declining 
her claim. It is not to decide what actually happened  to Miss Ps phone or whether what Miss 
P says is either true or false.  AGIL  has pointed  to inconsistencies in what  Miss P has said,  
the lack of detail regarding  the events of when  the phone was lost/stolen, that she bought  a 
new phone  immediately when she had insurance  for that purpose  and her actions regarding 
security applications  on her phone which she acknowledges she removed.
Having considered everything  Miss P has said I think Assurant had reasonable concerns 
about the validity of the claim,  based on the information Miss P had given it. So it was fairly 
entitled to turn down her claim. As a consequence  I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Miss P will doubtlessly  be disappointed. But as Ive said the test here is purely  has AGIL  
treated her unfairly and I dont think it has.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I do not uphold  this complaint about Assurant General Insurance  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October  2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0429512