K820x#14complaint
Miss N says Lightblue U.K. Limited mis-sold her an income protection  insurance policy. 
Shes also unhappy that her mum (Mrs M), who assisted  her making the application for 
income protection, wasnt included in all correspondence sent to her. 
Miss N is represented by Mrs M in this complaint.  
background
In July 2016 Mrs M and a representative of Lightblue discussed the possibility of Miss N 
taking out an income  protection  policy. This followed a previous  discussion in March 2016.
After considering Miss Ns needs, Lightblues representative recommended  a full term 
income protection insurance policy with a particular insurance provider. This meant if Miss N 
needed to claim on the policy, subject to the remaining terms of that policy,  the benefit  would  
be paid until retirement,  recovery or the policy came to an end. After reviewing the 
application, and in particular Miss Ns medical  history, the insurance provider declined cover. 
Lightblues representative then recommended an alternative income protection  policy with a 
different insurance  provider, which was ultimately taken out by Miss N. This was a short  term 
plan. That means,  although multiple  claims could be made under the policy,  the monthly  
benefit for each claim would only be paid for a maximum  of two years, subject to the 
remaining terms of the policy.  
In 2017 Miss N was diagnosed with cancer. Mrs M was unhappy that the policy would only 
pay the monthly benefit to Miss N for up to two years.  Mrs M says both she and Miss N were  
under the impression that the monthly benefit could continue to be paid up until she 
recovered, retired or the policy  ended.
Mrs M complained to Lightblue that the policy was mis-sold. She also says shed told 
Lightblue about Miss Ns dyslexia,  so it shouldve taken additional steps to ensure that she 
fully understood  the terms of the policy before  selling it to her - and Lightblue shouldve 
copied Mrs M into all correspondence, as shed requested. 
Lightblue says the policy wasnt mis-sold. It also says at no time prior to selling  the policy to 
Miss N was it made aware  that Miss N was dyslexic.
Mrs M, on behalf  of Miss N, brought a complaint  to us. Our investigator didnt uphold  
Miss Ns complaint. He didnt think Lightblue  had done anything wrong. Miss N disagrees so 
her complaint has been passed to me to look at everything afresh and make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why.
was the policy mis-sold?
Ref: DRN02695602Lightblue advised Miss N to take out the policy. So it had to ensure that the policy was 
suitable for her needs. It also had to give Miss N clear, fair and not misleading  information  
about the main  terms of the policy.
Its clear that Miss Ns unhappy about how long the policy pays out for in respect of each 
claim made under it. But I dont think the benefit  being limited to two years makes  the policy 
unsuitable.  And Ive seen  nothing else to suggest  that the policy  was unsuitable  for Miss N, 
given her circumstances.
Ive gone on to consider whether Miss M was given information about the main terms of the 
policy in a clear, fair and not misleading  way before she bought  it. And, all in all, Im satisfied 
she was.
The policy schedule confirms that the policy started  on 4 October 2016. Prior  to this, on 
29 September 2016, Lightblues representative  when telling Miss N that the first insurance 
provider had declined  to cover for her  provided some details of the policy she ended  up 
with. This included the monthly benefit  amount  and the monthly premium cost.  
He also attached a quote for this policy, which comprised  1.5 pages.  This confirmed, 
amongst other things,  that the maximum claim length is two years.  That information is 
contained within a small table with five columns and two rows at the start of the document,  
along with other key information  and so was clearly set out. He asked Miss N to let him 
know whether she wanted  to proceed.
Miss N replied on 3 October  2016  asking Lightblues representative to go ahead with the 
quote,  in effect instructing  him to process  the application for the policy.  So I think its more 
likely than not that she wouldve read the quote that was attached,  and therefore,  wouldve 
been aware of the maximum length  of time the policy would pay out for.
When making this finding I note that Miss N comments in an email dated 3 October  2016  to 
Lightblues representative. She says she wondered  what  the difference was between the 
policy that was being recommended and the previous policy that had been  recommended  
(but for which shed  been declined cover  by the insurance provider).  
When the previous  policy was recommended  to Miss N she wouldve known  that the length 
of time she could claim the benefit for wasnt restricted. So it wouldve perhaps been helpful  
if Lightblues representative had specifically pointed out that particular difference. But by that 
stage Miss N had already  been informed that the maximum period she could claim for under 
the policy she ended up with was two years. And the representative also sent her the policy  
summary, which explained the restriction  to the policy  benefit  - which Miss N said shed read 
that evening.
Knowledge of Miss Ns dyslexia 
Mrs M, on behalf  of Miss N, says she told Lightblue  at the outset that Miss N was dyslexic. 
She also says she asked to be included in all correspondence sent Miss N because she and 
Miss N would be making a joint decision about which policy  to take out.
Mrs M accepts that none of the call recordings Lightblue has given confirm that she told 
Lightblue about Miss Ns dyslexia.  But she says she wouldve told Lightblues representative 
Ref: DRN02695603about Miss Ns condition. Thats because shes always managed Miss Ns financial affairs 
because of her dyslexia and the condition was recorded at school from an early  age.  Shes  
suggested that Lightblue hasnt provided  all of the call recordings.
But Mrs M doesnt recall having a specific  conversation about  when she told Lightblue  of 
Miss Ns dyslexia or an approximate date when she told it. Mrs M has only said in response 
to our investigators opinion that: it is extremely unlikely I would not have mentioned  her 
disability. 
Based on everything  I have, Im satisfied Lightblue didnt know about Miss Ns dyslexia. 
Although Miss N does  give Lightblue  permission to deal with Mrs M, Mrs M told Lightblue  at 
the time that this was due to Miss N being  at work  during  the day, and its hard for her to call 
as she has a very busy schedule. She doesnt mention that Miss N is dyslexic in those calls.  
I also note that there are several emails  that pass between Miss N and Lightblues  
representative - particularly leading up to the policy being sold to her in October 2016. Mrs M 
isnt copied into these emails and Miss N doesnt  query this  or copy Mrs M into her replies  
to Lightblues  representative. Nor does Miss N intimate she doesnt understand whats being 
said. 
Further, when Mrs M calls Lightblues representative  on 4 October 2016  when phoning to 
discuss the policy information that Miss N had been sent the day before (and Miss N had 
forwarded to Mrs M)  she doesnt mention anything about Lightblue not sending  this 
information directly to her. If she had previously told Lightblue that Miss N was dyslexic and 
should be included  in all correspondence because of this, I wouldve expected her to have  
queried this then. To the contrary, towards the end of the call when the representative says: 
I hope  your daughter buys you a lot of chocolate as youre doing a lot of the work for her, 
Mrs M replies  that she always  does but she does it for all of them Again,  theres  no 
mention of her assisting  Miss N because shes dyslexic.
So whilst I accept that Mrs M did have a significant input in the application process  and 
assisted Miss N applying  for the policy, I dont think shed ever notified Lightblue that Miss N 
is dyslexic. It follows that Lightblue didnt need  to take any additional steps to ensure that 
Miss N fully understood the terms of the policy or copying Mrs M into certain correspondence 
to Miss N. I dont think there  was any obligation on it to do so. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0269560