K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) mis-sold  him the PPI. 
background
Mr R took out a mortgage with BoS in 1989.  At the time he did not take out a PPI policy.
The PPI policy was sold to Mr R some  years later in 1997. The policy covered him against  
being unable  to work due to accident, sickness  or involuntary unemployment.  The policy cost 
£12.65 per month and wouldve paid a monthly  benefit of £250 for up to 12 months in the 
event of a successful claim.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. So the complaints  been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
BoS hasnt been  able to send us the paperwork from the sale.  This isnt unusual  and its 
understandable in view of the time that has gone by since the sale took place. But where 
there is limited information,  I will make my decision  based on whats more likely to have 
happened, taking into account  the evidence available, what  both parties have told me and 
what we know about these types  of sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr R has told us he cannot recall  the PPI being  discussed with him at all. He believes it must  
have been set up without his knowledge.
BoS cannot tell us how the policy was sold to Mr R, it may have  been  during a telephone call 
or a branch  visit.
From experience I think its unlikely the policy could have been set up entirely without Mr Rs 
input. There would have  been some questions  around eligibility that would need to have 
been answered before it could have been  put in place.  And the premiums would have been 
taken from Mr Rs bank account  and have appeared on his bank statements. I think its likely 
hed have questioned these if the policy was set up without his knowledge.  And because the 
policy was added some  years after the mortgage  had begun, I think Mr R would be aware  it 
was optional.
Weighing everything up I think  its most likely Mr R was made  aware the PPI was optional  
and he chose to take it out. Although at the time it was likely  to have seemed a relatively 
straightforward transaction  so after so many years  I can understand why Mr R might not 
recall this.
Ref: DRN09862242BoS has told us that its adviser should have  recommended the PPI to Mr R. In which  case  it 
had to check that the PPI was right for him and based on what Ive seen  of his 
circumstances in 1997 I think that it was. I say this because:
Mr R was not affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example he 
didnt have any medical conditions that wouldnt have been covered. And he wasnt  in an 
unusual employment  situation which might not have been covered.
Mr Rs employers wouldve paid him some sick pay if hed become too unwell to work.  But 
this particular policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit in addition  to any sick pay, and for up to 
12 months. This is likely  longer than Mr Rs full sick pay would last. So I still think  Mr R 
wouldve found the benefit useful  if he had become too unwell to work, particularly if he was 
unwell for a prolonged period.
And if Mr R lost his job the monthly benefit  would  mean he could use any redundancy pay 
for other living costs.  
Mr R did have some savings  but the PPI policy would  mean  he didnt have to use his 
savings to pay the monthly mortgage  repayment  if he couldnt  work.
Mr R cant recall being given any information  about  the policy. I cant know after all these 
years exactly what he was told or given at the time. So its possible the information  BoS 
gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. But he chose to take it out        
- so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
In summary,  I think its likely BoS made Mr R aware the policy  was optional and he chose to 
buy it. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy BoS recommended  was right for him. And 
I dont think any clearer or more complete information wouldve made him act differently and 
decline it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  Bank  of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0986224