K820x#14complaint
Mr S instructed Taylor  Edwards Financial Management Ltd in August 2017 to do a free PPI 
check for him. In November 2017  he instructed them to make a PPI claim on his behalf. The 
claim was successful and Mr S received compensation from his PPI provider.
background
Mr S is unhappy with the fees Taylor Edwards  are charging him. He says he agreed to pay 
them a success fee of 20% but they charged him a fee of 30% plus VAT.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator.
Our investigator found that Taylor Edwards  had calculated their fees in line with the contract 
Mr S had signed. This contract said the success fee was 30% plus VAT. Because  of this he 
felt that Taylor Edwards  had acted reasonably.
Mr S disagreed with the investigator. He said he was told on the phone,  before he signed 
anything, that the fees were only 20%,  and that the Taylor Edwards facebook advert  he 
responded to only said 20%. He has said that his signature is not on anything that says 30% 
and he never wouldve  agreed to pay more  than 20% to 25%.  Hes also said that a lot of 
people are saying  that [Taylor Edwards] acquired there [sic] data illegally and Taylor 
Edwards have not answered his concerns about  this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen the paperwork Mr S signed in August 2017. He signed to say hed read  and 
accepted Taylor Edwards Financial Managements  Terms of Engagement. Ive also seen  a 
copy of the Terms of Engagement that were in force in August 2017.  These  say the fees will 
be 30%+VAT of the total amount awarded  of any successful claim. They also give 
examples of how the fee would be calculated.
Taylor Edwards wrote to Mr S in November 2017,  telling him theyd found  hed been  sold 
PPI, and asking  for his instructions to make a claim. This letter also told Mr S that their fee 
would be 30%+VAT totalling 36% and that he had a 14-day period after instructing them to 
cancel his claim at no charge. Mr S signed  to allow Taylor  Edwards  to make the claim for 
him on 28 November  2017,  and Ive not seen that he tried to cancel the claim.
I cant say what Mr S was told on the phone  as I dont have the call recordings. When  Mr S 
first spoke to Taylor Edwards there wasnt a legal or regulatory requirement  for them  to 
record calls or keep  any recorded calls for a fixed time period. Because  of this, the lack of 
call recordings  doesnt mean Taylor Edwards are trying to hide something.  I cant  uphold  a 
complaint on the lack of call recordings  alone.
Ref: DRN07825642But Mr S did sign an authority in August 2017,  which said he agreed to a fee of 30% plus 
VAT. He also gave authority to make  a claim in November 2017  after receiving a letter that 
clearly said the fees were  30% plus VAT. Even  if Mr S had been  told a different fee on the 
phone before this, he agreed to go ahead at a fee of 30% plus VAT. Because of this, I agree 
that Taylor Edwards can charge a fee of 30% plus VAT.
The facebook advert Mr S has sent in is for a free PPI check and it doesnt mention any 
fees. Taylor Edwards did the free check for Mr S and wrote  to tell him this had been 
successful. It was at this point Mr S asked Taylor Edwards to make  the claim, where he was 
reasonably made aware theyd be charging  him a success  fee of 30% plus VAT. Because of 
this, I wont be asking  them to change their fee.
Im only looking at the service Taylor  Edwards gave to Mr S. Because  of this, I wont  look at 
Mr Ss comment about what mightve happened to other people.  If hes concerned about 
how Taylor Edwards are using data, this issue should be raised  with the Information
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint. Because of this I wont be 
asking Taylor Edwards  Financial Management Ltd to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0782564