K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs L says Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs L has said she took the PPI through an online application but Barclays has provided 
evidence to show it was taken during a telephone call. Barclays has provided a short form 
postal application  Mrs L completed for the credit  card which gives  Barclays permission to 
telephone Mrs L to discuss her application. It was during this call PPI was sold.  
Barclays no longer  has a copy of the call recording which  isnt unsurprising  considering how 
long its been.  But I have seen a copy of the sales script the advisor is most likely to have 
used at the time of sale. The script  instructs the advisor to make it clear  the PPI is optional 
and take the consumers consent before adding the PPI.  And I dont have any evidence to 
suggest the advisor didnt follow the sales process and script.  
So based  on everything Ive seen and what I know about how Barclays sold PPI during 
inbound telephone calls,  I think its most likely Mrs L chose to take out PPI knowing it was 
optional  although I can understand why she cant remember this now many years  later.
Barclays has said it recommended the PPI to Mrs L so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mrs L has said she would have received six months full followed  by six months half sick pay 
from her employer at the time if she was too ill to work. But this policy  would cover 10% of 
the outstanding balance  of her account  for up to 12 months if she was too sick to work  or 
she lost her job. And this would be in addition to, and potentially  for longer than, any sick pay 
she would  receive  at full pay. So I still think the PPI would  have been useful.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because: 
Ref: DRN06146312Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about  that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mrs L, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs L has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs L any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0614631