K820x#14complaint
Ms N says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background
Ms N bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ns case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ns complaint because:
I think Lloyds made Ms N aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it. The PPI was shown  on the credit  card application  under the 
heading optional features. She ticked the yes box on the credit card application to 
show she wanted  PPI, rather  than the no box to show  she didnt. 
Lloyds recommended  the PPI to Ms N, and it seems to have been right for her based on 
what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave  Ms N about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But Ms N doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based  on what  I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been useful to her. So I dont  think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying it. 
Ms N was entitled to some sick pay, but cant remember how much.  Given  her job role it 
seems unlikely  it wouldve  been enough to make the PPI unsuitable. 
The PPI couldve helped  with Ms Ns credit card repayments for up to a year if she was 
off sick or unemployed, and wouldve paid off the balance if shed been off work  longer. 
This wouldve left any sick or redundancy pay available  for other things. 
While  Ms N couldve  asked friends and family for help, that help wouldve depended on 
their circumstances at the time. So such help wouldnt have  been  guaranteed. 
Ive taken into account Ms Ns comments,  including what shes  said about how long shed 
been employed at the point of sale. But these points  dont change my conclusion. 
Ref: DRN06995162If Ms N had only been employed  for five months (rather than five years as she stated on the 
credit card application), this wouldve only affected  her ability  to make an unemployment  
claim within the first month of cover. I dont think that wouldve made the PPI unsuitable  or 
stopped her taking  it out. I think at the time of sale she wouldnt have thought  it was likely 
that shed be at risk of unemployment within that month. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0699516