K820x#14complaint
Mr Vs complaint is about Michael Meese  and Associates (Meese and Associates),  an 
appointed representative of TenetConnect Limited (Tenet). A representative initially made  
the complaint  on Mr Vs behalf. The representative  said Meese and Associates switched 
Mr Vs personal pension plan to a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP), so he could make 
an investment in a commercial development in Spain called Resina Golf. The representative 
says the transaction was not execution only, as Tenet suggests. It says Mr V was given 
advice by Meese and Associates. And that the advice was unsuitable. 
background
the complaint
Mr V is one of a group of four consumers (who  were part of a wider  group of investors) who 
have brought  similar  complaints  to us. In the complaint form submitted to us on behalf  of 
Mr V, his representative says:
Mr V was introduced  to Meese and Associates  in order  to invest  in a golf course in 
Spain (Resina Golf). 
Mr V was told by Meese and Associates advisor  that he too was investing in the 
development.
Mr V was informed by Meese and Associates that he could switch  his pension into a 
SIPP to finance  the investment.
Meese and Associates arranged the switch  to a SIPP.  
Mr V has since discovered he owns shares in a company which  owns land adjacent 
to a golf course and has planning permission to develop, but that there is no intention  
to complete the development.
Mr V did not understand what execution only  meant and thought  the documents he 
signed (which confirmed Meese and Associates had acted in an execution only 
capacity) were part of the switch  or transfer process.  
Tenet is not right to say that the transactions were carried  out by Meese and 
Associates on an execution only basis. Mr V was given advice. 
Mr V cant now transfer his pension elsewhere  and is trapped  in the SIPP, continuing  
to pay charges. 
Resina Golf
The investment Mr V made took the form of shares  in an unlisted company called Resina 
Golf. The business  of the company was property development.  It intended  to purchase land 
adjacent to a golf course  in Spain  with a view to acquiring planning permission and then 
building a number  of luxury villas on in it. The life span of the investment was forecast  to be 
five to ten years. 
the investment group
Ref: DRN06704312Mr V (and the other three consumers who have made similar  complaints) was one of a group 
of nine friends and family who each made a number of property investments. All those in the 
group were  introduced to the property investments by a Mr S. Mr S had previously worked 
as a regulated  advisor but, at the time of the Resina Golf investment, did not work for a 
regulated business and was not authorised to carry out any regulated activities.  
Some of the group (who have not made  complaints) have provided witness statements, 
which Tenet has submitted to us. The statements are broadly  similar, and include  the 
following recollections: 
The investors were all introduced  to Resina Golf by Mr S. 
Mr S had led them to consider using their frozen pensions to invest  in Resina Golf.
A number of the group had visited Spain to view the land Resina Golf intended to 
develop. 
Mr S acted  as middleman between all the investors and Resina Golf. 
All the investors  were made aware  that Resina Golf was a long term investment and 
they may not be able to get their money back quickly. They expected  to receive  a 
good return in about five years. 
They had each  taken  the decision to invest in Resina Golf under guidance  from Mr S, 
without receiving any advice from Meese and Associates. 
Mr S had discussed the investment  with them, including the potential risks and 
returns. 
Meese and Associates was approached to execute the switch or transfer of their 
existing pensions to a SIPP. They were told Meese and Associates was a qualified  
advisor, required to facilitate the switches  or transfers. 
All the group met with Meese  and Associates for around  two hours to discuss 
matters.
At no time before  during or after the meeting did any of the group ask Meese and 
Associates for any advice.
Meese and Associates advisor  told the members of the group during the meeting 
that he had not seen  any of the documentation  regarding Resina Golf.
Each member of the group  had signed  a statement confirming Meese  and Associates 
had only provided  an execution only service. They (those providing the witness 
statements) think all the group  understood what this meant. 
One of the statements says Meese and Associates was approached to facilitate a switch to a 
specific SIPP operator. The others say only that Meese and Associates was approached to 
facilitate a switch  or transfer, without mentioning a specific SIPP  operator.  In all cases  the 
statements say they were told Meese  and Associates became involved as a regulated  
advisor was needed to facilitate the switch  or transfer. 
Ref: DRN06704313Meese and Associates and Mr S.
Meese and Associates entered into a Professional Introducer Agreement  with Mr S in 
February 2009. The agreement between Meese and Associates and Mr S said the 
introducer shall not provide any investment advice to the clients.
the investment process
The following  documents formed part of the investment process, in the order  listed:  
1.the execution only letter. Mr V signed  a pre-prepared execution  only letter  written 
to Meese and Associates which said:
EXECUTION ONLY  SERVICE
I write to confirm that I have not received  any information, advice or recommendation from 
you or your firm in respect of my decision to transfer my pension to Sippcentre Manchester 
Limited and invest in Resina Golf Limited  utilising my pension  fund held with the Sippcentre  
Manchester Limited.
I understand that this is an illiquid  investment and therefore should  I decide to disinvest there 
may be a delay before I am able to do this.
2.the confirmation letter. Meese and Associates wrote  a letter  to Mr V headed  
Execution Only Service which said:
Thank you for your letter dated 20th June 2010  confirming  that you are aware that this 
transaction is an execution only transaction and that you have not asked for advice or 
received any information  from me or my firm in respect of this transaction.
It is your decision alone  to transfer  your Phoenix  Life Pension to the Sippcentre  and make  an
investment into Resina Golf Limited.  We take no responsibility for either the pension product 
with the Sippcentre or the investments suitability.
We confirm that all the appropriate paperwork has been passed to the Sippcentre. Our fees 
as discussed and agreed with you in our meeting on the 14th June  2010  is 3% of the fund 
value of the pension, and will be deducted  from the pension  fund once it is received by the 
Sippcentre.
3.the explanation letter. Mr S wrote  a letter to Meese and Associates explaining the 
circumstances of the introduction of Mr V to Meese and Associates. The letter said:
Following your request  I am writing to you to confirm the circumstances surrounding the 
introduction of [Mr V] to yourself by me. [Mr V] is an existing  contact  of mine and I  
introduced him to you after he had decided he wanted to transfer his Phoenix  Life Pension to 
the Sippcentre  Manchester limited and use his pension fund to buy shares  in Resina Golf 
Limited.
I can also confirm that I was present in the meeting  on the 14th June 2010 which took place 
between you and [Mr V].
Ref: DRN06704314During that meeting you stated clearly to [Mr V] that you could not provide advice, any 
information on or confirm  the suitability of his decision to transfer his pension  to the 
Sippcentre and invest the money  in the pension in Resina Golf Limited shares. You stated  
that your role was to receive his instructions  and to carry these  out for which a fee would be 
charged. He confirmed he was happy to proceed  and agreed  to confirm in writing to you that 
he was aware of and understood that the transaction was being carried  out on this basis.
4.the advisor declarations.  Meese  and Associates  advisor signed an Advisor  
Declaration and Off Panel Illiquid Investment Declaration which were provided by the 
SIPP operator. The Off Panel  Illiquid Investment Declaration said Meese and 
Associates had:
made the client aware of the risk factors and terms and conditions for the investment 
named above,  set out in the key features and/or prospectus and other documentation 
provided, and the issues  set out above.  The Off Panel Illiquid Investment Declaration  also 
confirmed that the client  has been  made  aware of the above issues  and notwithstanding,  still 
wishes to proceed with the investment.
The issues set out above the Off Panel Illiquid Investment Declaration referred to were:
1.The risk factors are covered in the key features document and/or the prospectus. 
You must consider these carefully  before deciding either to make this investment.
2.There may not be a cooling  off, or cancellation,  period. Once the application form 
and monies are submitted encashment of the investment may not be possible, or 
may be difficult before the end of any specified term.
3.If there  is no liquid  market in the investment, selling/encashing the investment to 
pay benefits, or for re-investment may be very difficult. This could result in delays 
or restrictions on the benefits payable,
4.Also, if there is no liquid market in the investment, it may be difficult for us to 
obtain a valuation for accounting purposes. If we are unable  to obtain an up to 
date market value  from the manager of the investment, it is our standard policy to 
value such investments at cost (less  any amounts already paid out) for 
accounting purposes
5.If benefits are to commence under your clients  pension, or a review of limits 
under income withdrawal  is required, then we are obliged by the Her Majestys  
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to use the market value of assets  when calculating  
the benefits available, if we are unable to obtain an up to dale market  value, we 
may have to value  the investment at cost (less any amounts  already paid out) or 
give the investment  a nil value (if the investment cannot be realised at that time).
6.In the event of death, liquid funds may be required to pay a lump  sum and/or 
pension benefits  to the members  dependants. Certain tax benefits are available 
for the payment of a lump sum benefit,  as long as this is paid within 2 years  of the 
date of death of the member. By the SIPP owning assets that are not readily 
realisable, such tax benefits  may be jeopardised and the payment of death 
benefits may be delayed.
Ref: DRN067043157.The charges  for this type of investment may be higher than those for other types 
of investment. You must ensure  that you understand the nature and level of the 
charges payable before committing to make the investment. Additional  costs  may 
be incurred by [the SIPP operator]  in relation  to the administration  of such  
investments, which will be payable from the SIPP.  
8.If the organisation offering the investment or the investment itself are not 
recognised or authorised by the UK Financial Services Authority, your client will 
not have the protection of the UK Financial Services Compensation Scheme or 
be able to complain  to the Financial Services Ombudsman. However, the 
investment may be subject to regulation in another country and you should 
provide your client with more information as required.
The Advisor  Declaration  said:
I confirm that any commission due will be disclosed to the client and that I am authorised  to 
give investment instructions on their behalf. 
I confirm that where the investor must  meet eligibility  criteria to make  a particular investment 
(eg where an investor must be a sophisticated or high net worth investor), these criteria have 
been met. 
Meese and Associates has provided  a handwritten meeting  note dated  14 June 2010. That 
says: 
Client wishes to invest in Resina as other  members  of his family  and friends had already 
done so using their pension  funds.  
He had made a £80k  investment in land in the Dominican  Republic in 2007 without seeking 
advice. 
His friends and family had arranged their SIPPs with [the SIPP operator]. 
Considers the sale of his business at retirement as the means by which to retire.  He 
considers [his existing]  pension  to be a minor part of his pension  planning. 
Mr V signed  the execution  only letter  on 20 June  2010. He signed the application form to 
open the SIPP on 14 June 2010  (in my provisional decision I said this had been signed on 
20 June, but I note it was in fact signed  on 14 June) . The named advisor  on the SIPP  
application was Meese and Associates. The total value of Mr Vs pension  at the time of the 
application was about £12,500. 
Meese and Associates sent the confirmation  letter to Mr V on 24 June 2010. And on 6 July 
2010 the explanation  letter  was sent from Mr S to Meese and Associates. 
After Mr Vs money  was switched to the new SIPP, an application was made to invest 
£11,000 in Resina Golf. Meese and Associates advisor signed the Advisor Declaration  on 
13 July 2010,  and the Off Panel Illiquid  Investment  Declaration on the 15 July 2010. £11,000 
was paid to Resina Golf on 16 July 2010.  
On 3 March 2010,  the SIPP operator had e-mailed  Meese and Associates advisor, in 
response to a query from him. The email  from the SIPP operator said:
Ref: DRN06704316Please find attached a copy of our Off Panel Illiquid Investment Declaration, as discussed  in 
our earlier telephone conversation. 
I understand your concerns surrounding the declaration when  you have not made  the clients 
aware of the risk factors,  terms and conditions of the pension transfers as they have been 
completed execution  only. However we still require the declaration to be completed  for the 
investments to go ahead. If you are satisfied that the clients have received information  on 
the investment  and are aware  of the risk factors albeit not from you, we can accept the 
signed declaration on this basis.
Mr Vs submissions 
After his complaint  had been referred  to us Mr V sent us a letter  dated 2 June 2014, which 
said: 
I would like to explain my side of this situations, I have  been put into by [Mr S] who was 
supposed to be a bonefied adviser.  He was introduced to me by [another member  of the 
group]. 
We firstly were  put onto off plan apartments  in The Dominican Republic to which failed due 
to very bad advice given  by [Mr S] cost borrowed  £ 90,000 on my house which failed. 
As this was continuing  we were also dealt into other investments:
Morocco £18,000/- again  with NO paperwork  given  even  though  asked several times failed.
Geneva again same scenario £ 8,000/- given again  NO Paperwork or any plans or of 
developers who were supposed  to build. We were told that this development would be up 
and running within 12 months failed .
On these so tightly  schedule manoeuvres, I was also asked about how my pension  was 
doing, in conversation so I thought of at the time.  Later on I told [Mr S] that my Phoenix Life 
Pension had not matured.  I was then told by [Mr S], he would be able to help me in doubling 
even tripling my pension  of £ 13,000 on some land he owned  in Spain, overlooking a Golf 
course to which  he also said we would build 4-5 villas with a rental  income and an income 
also coming from the golf course. Its only later on that I found out [Meese and Associates 
advisor] had bought the land off [Mr S] and not to worry I would be introduced to [Meese and 
Associates advisor] . To which I was introduced to on 14th of June  2010.
They came to my home to advise me about  what and how to invest  into Resina Golf Limited 
and how it would again be in my interest to invest because [Meese and Associates advisor] 
had heavily invested as well. Again I was told it would double/triple in a good time for me to 
retire as Phoenix Life had failed.  No time was I neither told anything about a SIPP  nor was I 
told of an execution only transaction.
Mr V later provided  us with the following further  information: 
He had not seen the Information Memoradum for Resina Golf  this was never given 
to him. He received two share certificates. The first had his name spelt  incorrectly  on 
it. The second had no signature on it. 
Ref: DRN06704317He invested  in Punta Perla (the off plan Dominican Republic property he had referred  
to earlier) in 2007. A £6,000 deposit  was paid in February 2007 and £80,000 was 
paid in July 2007.  This was funded by a remortgage for £90,000. Mr S advised him to 
take the mortgage, and make the investment.  Mr S told him that during the third year 
the property would be built and the value of the property would appreciate. This 
would make it easy to get a new mortgage in the Dominican Republic to pay off the 
next instalment  and repay the remortgage. Mr S told him there was no risk 
associated with this investment.  
He invested  in a Moroccan property  in July 2008. He paid a £15,000 deposit, funded  
from his savings. 
He invested  in a Lake  Geneva property in December 2008. He borrowed the money 
for this investment from his family. 
He also gave £3,000 to Mr S to invest in bank  shares, which never materialised.
He had been introduced to Mr S in early 2007  by a friend. Mr S was described to him 
as an overseas investment agent.  
Mr S visited his house several  times  showing an interest in his investment portfolio. 
His existing financial adviser  had suddenly passed away,  and he was looking for 
another advisor. 
He did not consider  himself to be part of a group  of investors,  and never attended a 
group meeting  where investing in Resina Golf was discussed. 
It was only after a period of time that he began to recognise  that the investments he 
had made on Mr Ss advice were  not producing returns and were dubious.  Mr Ss 
investments were supposed to be long term taking some time to mature  and so it 
took some time before it was apparent  that there were  problems by which time he 
had already committed to a number of Mr Ss investments.
Im aware that Punta Perla was run by a business  called Ocean View  Properties. The money 
invested was intended to be a deposit on a property,  and the remainder of the amount 
required to build the property was supposed to be funded by a mortgage.  However,  nothing  
was ever built. Ocean View Properties went into liquidation in 2009. 
Tenets guidance to its appointed representatives 
Tenets guidance to its appointed representatives, given in June 2009, about execution  only 
transactions says:  
Irrespective of whether  an adviser  is dealing with a client on an Execution Only basis  it is 
important to remember that they must  never arrange  a contract  if there is reason to believe 
that the investment is not in the clients best interests. This requirement relates  to specific  
FSA Rules. When faced with this sort of situation  the adviser must decline to act for the 
client.
Ref: DRN06704318There are also certain high-risk products that must  not be sold to retail clients without the 
benefit of financial  advice. Among these are Unregulated  Collective Investment Schemes  
including EIS, Occupational Pension Transfers and certain guaranteed products. These are 
complex investments  and ordinarily advisers should  not consider arranging  sales  on an 
Execution Only Basis.
Tenets submissions on merits
Tenet takes responsibility  for Meese  and Associates actions,  as that business  was 
Tenets appointed  representative. 
Mr V was a knowledgeable  and experienced investor, and in particular a 
knowledgeable and experienced investor  in overseas properties. 
All the investors  in the group  to which Mr V belonged decided to invest  in Resina Golf 
before they were  introduced to Meese and Associates. 
The witness statements overwhelmingly support Tenets position  that Mr V has no 
grounds for complaint against Meese  and Associates.  
If any advice was given to Mr V then it must  have been given by Mr S. But that is 
irrelevant to the complaint against  Tenet. Mr S did not act on behalf of Meese and 
Associates or Tenet. 
Meese and Associates did not provide any advice in relation to the transfer of 
pension funds. Mr V acknowledged  that he had not received advice. The letter  (which  
Ive called the execution only letter) could  not in its view have been  clearer.  
Meese and Associates warned  Mr V that the Resina Golf investment may be illiquid. 
I need to consider the guidance published on our website about execution only 
transactions. Following  that guidance should lead to the conclusion  the transaction 
here was an execution only one. 
Meese and Associates was under no duty to give advice to Mr V. Suitability 
considerations only apply where a personal  recommendation  has been made (COBS 
9.1.1R). Here, Meese and Associates made  no personal recommendation. 
In some circumstances  an appropriateness  test applies to execution  only business. It 
does not believe  that test applies here. 
Even if such a test did apply, Meese and Associates had sufficient evidence to 
support a conclusion  that an investment in Resina Golf was appropriate for Mr V. 
Tenets submissions on dismissal
Mr V is making serious allegations against  Meese and Associates advisor. 
There is a conflict in the evidence given by the members of the group. This needs to 
be explored by cross-examination. 
Ref: DRN06704319I should therefore decide that this is one of those cases  where  the subject matter of 
the complaint  means that it is more suitable for determination by a court  or means it 
should be dismissed without consideration of the merits,  for other  compelling  
reasons. 
further evidence on the merits of the complaint
We asked Tenet some  questions. We asked, in summary: 
How did Meese and Associates advisor satisfy himself that he was able to sign the 
SIPP operators Off Panel Illiquid Investment Declaration?
Did Meese  and Associates advisor  have regard to Tenets  guidance on execution 
only business when  deciding to act for Mr V?
What meetings does  Meese and Associates advisor recall taking place between him 
and Mr V? What can Meese  and Associates advisor  recall  being discussed at those  
meetings?
Does Meese and Associates advisor know how Mr V found the SIPP  operator?  
Ive summarised the main  points made  in response  to these questions as follows:  
Each of the group  had said they were disappointed with the performance of their 
pensions, which werent worth  enough to form a realistic part of their retirement 
planning.
Each of the group  said they had read and understood the information  memorandum 
for Resina Golf, including the numerous risk warnings  it contained.  
Each of the group, were experienced investors acting together and it was clear  they 
were willing  to commit to long term investments.
Meese and Associates advisor  reasonably concluded that each  of the group,  
understood the investment and that it was appropriate to proceed in the light of their 
experience and circumstances. 
Meese and Associates advisor  was concerned about signing the SIPP operators 
declaration because he was only acting in an execution  only capacity. He discussed  
this with an advisor colleague (copies  of emails  have been provided  to evidence this 
discussion).
Following the discussion with an advisor  colleague, Meese and Associates advisor  
decided to meet with each of the members of the group individually  to check  they 
understood the terms and conditions of the investment, the implications and risks,  
and still wanted  to proceed. 
Meese and Associates advisor  also contacted the investment provider, who 
confirmed that any investor could  withdraw  up to the point share certificates  were  
issued. Each of the group were  told about this. The certificates  were  not issued  until 
October 2010, so the group had a considerable amount  of time to change  their mind, 
if they wanted to. 
Ref: DRN067043110Meese and Associates advisor  cant specifically recall Tenets guidance, but he 
would have had regard to any guidance provided  to him. In any event, we need to 
consider Meese  and Associates advisors  legal and regulatory  obligations.  Meese 
and Associates advisor was allowed by the regulator to complete business on an 
execution only basis, and was authorised  by Tenet to do so. 
Meese and Associates advisor  was provided with a copy of the information  
memorandum for Resina Golf at the meeting with the group. He reviewed it and 
discussed its contents with the group. 
The group  identified the SIPP operator  without the assistance of Meese and 
Associates advisor. He recalls Mr S telling  him that the provider of Resina Golf had 
mentioned which  SIPP operator would accept  the investment  on an execution only 
basis. 
my provisional decision  
I recently issued a provisional decision.  A copy of my provisional  findings is attached.  In 
short, my provisional decision was that Meese  and Associates  did not act fairly and 
reasonably. I said the transaction  was an execution only one but, in the circumstances, 
Meese and Associates should not have facilitated it. It should have either given advice  or 
refused to act. However, I thought the investment would have gone ahead had Meese and 
Associates done  either of these things.  So I did not think  the complaint should  be upheld. 
Tenet accepted my decision, and made no further comments. 
A solicitor responded on Mr Vs behalf. It said, in summary: 
Mr V has not been afforded  his rights  and protection  as a consumer. I have not 
clearly considered Mr Vs circumstances and complaint. Mr V was not part of the 
large investor meeting regarding the Resina Golf investment and is not of the 
same financial  standing as some of the other  investors within the group.
It is important that I understand fully the context of the meeting that took place at 
Mr Vs home on 14 June 2010.  Mr V was visited by Mr S and Meese and 
Associates advisor. The meeting lasted between 20 and 30 minutes. At that 
meeting, Meese and Associates advisor secured the signature of the transfer of 
Mr Vs pension  to the SIPP. 
Mr V is not a knowledgeable  investor  and he is not a high worth  individual.  He has 
made several investments in foreign land based on information from Mr S without 
proper advice and without seeing  plans or paperwork. All of these  investments 
have involved  Mr S who at that time,  Mr V trusted, all of these  investments have 
failed.
Mr V was not aware that Mr S was no longer a regulated adviser nor was he fully 
aware there  was an agreement between  Mr S and Meese  and Associates. The 
meeting at Mr Vs home took place with the two advisers presenting themselves 
as professional advisers.  
Ref: DRN067043111There should have  been  a fourteen-day  cancellation cooling off period for the 
SIPP. However,  Mr Vs immediate follow-up concerns  were not appropriately 
responded to. Mr V received what could only be described as a photocopy of a 
share certificate,  there was no appropriate  seal and his name was incorrectly 
spelt. Mr V has consistently  bought this matter  up and has consistently been 
ignored and Meese and Associates advisor  batted off his complaints with dont  
worry.  
The conduct of the meeting was wholly inappropriate,  as Mr V was left with no 
appropriate copy paperwork or confirmation  of the transfer. The follow up letter 
from Meese and Associates to Mr V dated  24 June 2010 served to indemnify  his 
own position and confirm  his fee that would be deducted from Mr Vs pension.  The 
letter did not address  the concerns  that Mr V had raised  regarding the poor copy  
share certificate that they handed  him at the meeting.
It is clear that regardless  of whether there was an execution  only transaction 
occurring, Meese and Associates  advisor had a duty of care and a duty to uphold  
the industry standard of practice. It is not correct to disassociate Mr S with Meese 
and Associates as there was a professional introducer agreement between them.  
Mr V was not aware that the transfer would go into a SIPP, he was not aware  that 
he was dealing with an unauthorised  adviser. He was not aware  that he was 
buying shares in a company that owned land in Spain.  
Contrary to the reports in the response letter from Tenet, Mr V was not part of the 
two hour meeting to the investor group and never travelled to Spain to view the 
Resina Golf site or land adjacent. 
It was not made clear or explained about the execution only transaction and Mr V 
denies signing the confirmation  letter dated 20 June 2010.
Clearly Mr V needed advice on the transfer. However, no action was taken to alert 
Mr V as to the risks.  This is a clear  breach of a duty of care regardless of whether 
the transaction was execution only.
Many  of the responses in the provisional  decision refer to the group collectively, 
not Mr V as an individual. Mr V was not part of the group meeting referred to, and 
should be considered individually.
There is an assumption that Mr V has placed  reliance on Mr S. Mr V had been 
misled consistently. He was told that planning permission had already been  
granted, which was incorrect. The issue for discussion is whether or not Meese  
and Associates was wrong to transfer the pension into the SIPP for the highly 
risky illiquid  investments in Resina Golf without proper advice from a regulated 
adviser.
Ref: DRN067043112I highlight the bad advice from Mr S but neglect to acknowledge that Mr S signed 
up with Meese and Associates for its ability to act as a regulated adviser. Meese 
and Associates adviser did not meet  his regulatory obligations. He should have 
considered his concerns fully and took the two options available i.e. declining  to 
act or to give advice. He did neither but continued knowing it was wrong and 
collected the 3% commission out of Mr Vs pension.
I should not determine  what Mr V should or should not have done.  I should 
consider whether Meese and Associates has acted negligently and on the face of 
it. Meese and Associates  has clearly  overlooked  its duty of care to the investor as 
a regulated adviser and should  not have continued with the transfer of Mr Vs 
pension.
my findings
I remain satisfied, for the reasons set out in my provisional findings, that this complaint is 
one I can and should consider and, as neither party has made any comment on my 
provisional findings on these points, I see no reason to add to those findings.  So Ive 
reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the view there are three things to think about  here:
Did Meese  and Associates act in an execution only capacity (i.e. did it not give 
advice)? and (if so)
Was it fair and reasonable, in the circumstances, for Meese and Associates to act in 
that capacity? and (if it wasnt)
What impact has this had? 
I remain of the view, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, that it is more  likely 
than not that no advice  was given to Mr V by Meese  and Associates. I appreciate Mr V says 
he cant recall signing  the execution only letter dated 20 June 2010,  and does not recall 
being told about an execution only transaction. But I think it more likely than not he did sign 
the 20 June 2010 letter, and was told he had not been given advice by Meese and 
Associates. The signature on the 20 June 2010 letter  looks  the same as the signature on the 
other documentation that Mr V signed. There was also a letter  sent to Mr V confirming hed 
not been given advice  and Ive seen no evidence to show  Mr V disputed this at the time.  And 
I note that when Mr V initially complained to us his representative said he did sign the letter, 
but did not understand what it meant. So, whilst  Mr V may not have  understood the term 
execution only or remember  that being  discussed  specifically, I think he was told he was 
not being given advice  by Meese and Associates  I think  he saw and signed  the letter. 
Although I note the SIPP application form was completed on 14 June 2010, the day of the 
meeting between Mr V, Mr S, and Meese  and Associates advisor,  I do not think  this was the 
first time the prospect  of investing in Resina  Golf and using his pension  to fund such an 
investment had been discussed with Mr V. I note Mr V said to us:
.. I was also asked  [by Mr S] about how my pension was doing,  in conversation so I thought  
of at the time. Later  on I told [Mr S] that my Phoenix Life Pension  had not matured. I was 
then told by [Mr S], he would be able to help me in doubling even tripling my pension  of £ 
13,000 on some land he owned in Spain, overlooking a Golf course to which he also said we 
would build  4-5 villas  with a rental  income  and an income also coming from the golf course.
Ref: DRN067043113So I think Mr S had advised Mr V to invest in Resina Golf and use his pension  to fund the 
investment before the 14 June 2010  meeting. I think that meeting took place so Mr V could 
be introduced to Meese and Associates advisor, so the switch to the SIPP could be 
facilitated. 
In these circumstances, I am not persuaded Mr V understood Meese  and Associates had 
been engaged to provide advice.  I think  Meese and Associates only got involved because  
the SIPP operator required a regulated advisor  to introduce the SIPP  application to it, and 
that Mr V was acting  on advice from Mr S. 
I also remain of the view that it was not fair and reasonable, in the circumstances, for Meese 
and Associates to act in this capacity, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision. I 
agree with Mr Vs solicitor  Mr V had the benefit  of regulatory protection,  which  put some 
obligations on Meese and Associates. And I dont think those obligations were met here. 
Meese and Associates should have recognised a clear risk of consumer detriment and either 
given Mr V advice, or declined to act. 
Mr Vs solicitor  has suggested that I need  only decide whether Meese and Associates acted 
negligently. But I am required to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
And I am satisfied that to do that here I must not only consider what Meese and Associates 
should have done, but also what impact those actions would likely have had. So that brings 
me back to what in my view is the key question  had Meese  and Associates given advice, 
or refused to act, what would have happened? In other words, what is the impact of Meese 
and Associates failure to give advice, or to refuse to act? 
I should stress that I have considered Mr Vs individual circumstances. The wider  
background included in the background section above is relevant as it illustrates the wider 
context of the relationship between Mr V and Mr S and how it had developed/evolved. But I 
accept that Mr Vs individual circumstances are key.  
I remain of the view that the available evidence shows Mr V was heavily reliant  on Mr S and 
that there  was therefore likely a significant degree of insistence  on proceeding on Mr Vs 
part, after hed accepted Mr Ss advice to invest in Resina Golf and use his pension to fund 
the investment.  
I accept Mr V is not a sophisticated investor  or high net worth. But I think  at the time the 
Resina Golf investment  was put to him he did understand that these type of investments can 
go wrong, and must have  been aware of problems with some of the previous investments he 
had made.  As I set out in the background above, and in my provisional  findings, Mr V had 
remortgaged his home to make a significant investment in an overseas property, and that 
investment had run into problems by the time Resina Golf was being discussed with Mr V. 
So it seems  Mr V was prepared to consider Resina Golf despite another  overseas property 
based investment  he had made on the advice of Mr S having encountered problems. 
I think the comments from Mr Vs solicitor in the reply to my provisional decision also support 
my provisional finding about the likely degree  of Mr Vs insistence on making  the Resina Golf 
investment. 
Ref: DRN067043114The solicitor  mentioned Mr V had made  several  investments in foreign land based on 
information from Mr S without seeing plans or paperwork. So it seems his degree of trust in 
Mr S was such  that he was prepared  to give him large amounts of money without seeing any 
paperwork. The solicitor  mentions Mr Vs trust in Mr S at the time.   
The solicitor  also says Mr V was not aware  that the transfer would go into a SIPP,  he was 
not aware that he was dealing with an unauthorised adviser, and he was not aware  that he 
was buying shares  in a company that owned land in Spain. Im not persuaded by this. Mr V 
signed several documents relating to the transfer  or switch to the SIPP and correspondence  
was sent directly to him by his existing pension and the SIPP  operator. Mr V has also 
previously told us Mr S said at the time that he would be able to help me in doubling  even 
tripling my pension of £ 13,000 on some  land he owned in Spain, suggesting he knew  he 
was investing  in land in Spain. And the fact he had concerns about the share  certificate 
suggests he knew he was buying  shares. Nonetheless, the suggestion  seems  to be that 
Mr V would do whatever  Mr S asked  including signing papers without any understanding  of 
what they were for and making investments without any understanding of what they were. 
All in all, for the reasons given here and in my provisional decision, I remain  satisfied  that 
if Meese  and Associates  had given  advice or refused  to act, that would not likely have 
changed the course  of things. Mr V would still have moved his pension,  and invested in 
Resina Golf. 
The solicitor has made some  other  new points.  It has mentioned problems with the share 
certificate, a cooling off period, and a lack of paperwork. 
The share  certificate was issued after Mr V had made his investment  in Resina Golf.  So I 
dont think any problems with this impacts  what I have set out above. Thats  an issue  that 
came to light after the investment had proceeded. In terms of paperwork,  the available  
evidence shows that Mr V was sent documentation  by both his existing pension provider 
and the SIPP operator. The latter provided  Mr V with a 30 day cooling off period. So I 
cant see that any paperwork was withheld from Mr V which might  have changed  the 
course of things. Or that he wasnt given a right to cancel (which,  in any event, was 
something the SIPP operator was obliged to provide, not Meese  and Associates). 
Overall, my decision remains as set out in my provisional findings, for the reasons given 
here and in my provisional findings.  To be clear,  those  provisional findings form part of 
this final decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN067043115my provisional  findings  
As Tenet  says Mr Vs complaint should be dismissed I have first considered all the available  
evidence, to decide whether this complaint is one I should look at. 
The relevant rules  here are the following sections  of DISP 3.3.4 Grounds for Dismissal:
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint  referred to the Financial  Ombudsman Service before 9 
July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman  considers that:
(10) it would  be more suitable for the subject matter of the complaint to be dealt with by a court, 
arbitration or another complaints scheme; or
(17) there are other compelling reasons why it is inappropriate for the complaint to be dealt with under  
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Ref: DRN067043116I acknowledge there are some conflicts in the recollections of some of the parties  who have provided 
evidence. But I am satisfied that I can fairly decide this complaint, notwithstanding any conflicts  
between the recollections of some  of the parties involved. I am of the view the complaint is one on 
which I am able to make a decision on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Im satisfied  
that decision can be made by reference to the available  evidence and relevant  law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what  I consider 
to have been  good industry practice at the time.  
I am therefore satisfied that this complaint is not one where the subject matter makes it more suitable 
to be dealt with by the courts.  Or that I should dismiss it for other compelling reasons. 
For completeness, I should also mention that I do not think an oral hearing is necessary in this case. 
Another ombudsman  has already dealt with Tenets request for an oral hearing. The ombudsman 
declined that request.  When doing so, he pointed out that we do not have the power to test evidence  
by cross-examination. So a request to conduct a hearing on this basis was misplaced. That remains 
the case. 
The ombudsman also pointed  out that, unlike  a court, we have the power to make our own 
investigation. Here I think a thorough investigation has taken  place. And both Tenet and 
Mr V have had ample opportunities to make submissions.  
As mentioned  above, I am also satisfied this is a complaint I can fairly  determine on the basis of the 
evidence available. So, like the other ombudsman, I do not think  a hearing is necessary  here. 
As I am satisfied this complaint is one I can and should consider I have considered all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When doing so, I have again taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, 
guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what  I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time. 
There are up to three things to think about here:
Did Meese  and Associates act in an execution only capacity? and (if it did)
Was it fair and reasonable,  in the circumstances, for Meese  and Associates to act in that 
capacity? and (if it wasnt)
What impact has this had? 
I think,  on balance, the transaction was likely  an execution only one. I say this because:
Mr V had decided to make the investment  in Resina Golf and switch his existing pension to 
the SIPP  to fund it, before being introduced to Meese and Associates. 
It is also clear  that Mr S gave advice  to Mr V about  the Resina  Golf investment, and 
recommended he use pension money to fund the investment, and that such advice was given 
before Mr V was introduced to Meese and Associates. 
A number  of members of the investment group  have  provided witness statements  in which  
they stated that Meese and Associates advisor  did not give any advice on Resina Golf or the 
switch (or transfer) to a SIPP. 
The execution only letter, which  Mr V signed, was written in clear terms, which  would have 
been easily  understood even by an inexperienced investor. The letter said I write to confirm I 
have not received any information, advice  or recommendation from you or your firm in respect 
of my decision  to transfer my pension.and invest in Resina Golf. 
Ref: DRN067043117Meese and Associates advisor  also wrote to Mr V after the application  for the SIPP  had been 
made and said ..you are aware that this transaction is an execution  only transaction and that 
you have not asked for advice or received any information or advice from me or my firm in 
respect of this transaction. It is your decision alone to transfer your [pension] to [the SIPP  
operator] and make an investment into Resina Golf. This letter, again, was written in clear 
terms, which would have been easily understood even by an inexperienced  investor. 
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr V expressed any concern about  accepting these 
statements, or queried them. So I think its fair to say, at the time, Mr V accepted this as a fair 
reflection of the role Meese  and Associates had taken.  
The SIPP  operator says it has no record of any contact with Meese  and Associates before it 
received applications from members of the investment group. It has also told us it wasnt 
asked if it would accept Resina Golf before the initial applications were made for SIPPs by 
some of the group  of investors (Mr Vs application arrived later). When the SIPP operator was 
asked if it would accept Resina Golf, it explained it needed an off panel investment 
instruction and for the advisor declarations to be signed. It appears that prompted the query 
from Meese and Associates to which  the SIPP operator  replied by email (quoted in the 
background section above) on 3 March 2010. That query suggests Meese  and Associates 
advisor had no knowledge of the SIPP operators processes  or requirements  until he was told 
about them by the SIPP  operator. 
In response to our request for more information, Meese and Associates  advisor  said his 
recollection is that it was Mr V (along  with the rest of the group) who selected the SIPP 
operator. He has also said he recalls  that Mr S mentioned that the provider of the Resina Golf 
investment knew  the SIPP operator would  accept  the investment on an execution  only basis. I 
think this recollection  is plausible. 
So I think  it likely Mr S found out which  SIPP operator would  accept the investment, and told 
Mr V and/or Meese  and Associates advisor  this, rather than Meese and Associates 
recommending the SIPP. If Meese  and Associates had given advice on which SIPP would  be 
suitable, Id expect  it to have taken steps to ascertain whether the SIPP would  accept the 
Resina Golf investment, and on what basis it would be accepted.  Particularly as another SIPP 
operator had previously declined  to accept the investment on an execution only basis.  In the 
event, it seems these steps were taken by Mr S. 
So I need to consider  whether Meese and Associates  advisor, acting fairly and reasonably, should 
have acted in this capacity.  I do not think it should. I say this because: 
Meese and Associates advisor  says he would  have had regard to guidance provided  to him 
by Tenet.  That guidance said he should never arrange a contract  if there is reason  to believe 
that the investment is not in the clients best interests. It also said that certain high-risk 
products (which I think would include things like the shares in Resina Golf)  must  not be sold 
without the benefit of financial  advice. So he should have been aware that this was a contract 
which Tenet said should  never be arranged on an execution only basis. 
Meese and Associates advisor  likely knew Mr S, an unregulated individual,  had given  advice 
to Mr V. That was contrary to the agreement between  Meese and Associates and Mr S. 
Meese and Associates advisor  knew that the declarations he signed for the SIPP operator 
were necessary to allow  the investment to go ahead. And he ought to have known the 
purpose of those  declarations was consumer  protection. The operator of the SIPP wanted 
Meese and Associates advisor  to declare  that he had made  sure Mr V knew what he was 
getting into. 
Ref: DRN067043118The only acknowledgement of understanding of risk Mr V was asked to give by Meese  and 
Associates advisor  was in the execution only letter, where Mr V declared  I understand that 
this is an illiquid investment and therefore should I decide to disinvest there may be a delay 
before I am able to do this. This falls a long way short of providing a full and balanced 
explanation of the risks. Meese and Associates advisor could therefore take little comfort 
from it. And there is insufficient evidence  to show that Meese and Associates  advisor could 
have otherwise been assured that he should sign the advisor declarations.  
I therefore  need  to consider  what  impact  this has had. Would things have turned  out differently,  if 
Meese and Associates had not acted as it did? I do not think they would. I think  Mr V would have  
gone ahead and made the investment even if Meese and Associates advisor had not acted as he did. 
I think,  by the time the Resina Golf investment was proposed to Mr V it more likely than not he was 
aware the investment he had made in 2007 had failed, or had at least  encountered significant  
problems. The completion date had passed, and Ocean View had gone into liquidation.  Mr V says it 
had been his understanding this investment carried no risk. I think he would have known by the time 
the Resina Golf investment  was proposed that wasnt the case. 
Mr V had also already  made  a succession of investments on the advice on Mr S. By this time,  Mr V 
likely knew that some of those also werent working out as they had been described  to him. 
This suggests two things.  Firstly, that Mr V did have  some  awareness of the risks associated with 
investments of this type  he knew they could go wrong. Secondly,  that he attached a lot of weight  to 
advice given to him by Mr S, which  was being followed by the remainder of the investment group. He 
was willing to accept Mr Ss advice  on a number  of occasions before making the Resina  Golf 
investment. And he was willing to consider making the Resina Golf investment  despite the likely 
knowledge of other investments recommended by Mr S not having turned out as they had initially 
been described to him. 
Even if Mr V did not think there was a problem with the 2007 investment by the time the Resina  Golf 
investment was proposed to him by Mr S (and I think this is unlikely), this could  only be as a result  of 
reassurances given by Mr S. So this again suggests that Mr V attached  a lot of weight to what  Mr S 
said. If he was prepared to accept the investment would  be ok even through the completion date had 
long since passed  with nothing being built and the business offering the investment had gone into 
liquidation this again shows  a strong  will to follow  a course of action recommended to him by Mr S. 
Either way, I think the evidence shows there was likely to be a degree of insistence on making this 
investment on Mr Vs part. I also think it is clear from his submissions to us that Mr V viewed  Mr S, not 
Meese and Associates, as his advisor. So I think at the time of the Resina Golf investment Mr V likely 
had a lot of trust in Mr S. 
Finally, I think  it is plausible that Mr V did not view his pension as forming a significant part of his 
retirement planning. A sum of around £12,500 is not of course insignificant  in itself. But it is not a sum 
that is likely  to make a significant impact on retirement plans  it would only provide a small amount  of 
income. So its possible that Mr V would  have taken  the view that it was worth taking a high level of 
risk on making  an investment such as Resina Golf, if he thought there was a good  prospect of 
receiving a high return. And, from what Mr V has told us about what Mr S said to him about the 
investment, it seems Mr V did think there was a good prospect of a high return. 
I think  there were two alternatives open to Meese and Associates advisor,  had he not acted  as he 
did. One was to refuse to act at all. The other was to give Mr V advice. And, in the light of what I say 
above, I do not think  that either of those  alternatives would have achieved a different result.  I think, in 
either event,  Mr V would still have gone ahead, transferred and switched his pensions,  and made  the 
investment in Resina Golf.  
Ref: DRN067043119Had Meese and Associates advisor given advice, acting fairly and reasonably, and mindful of his 
regulatory obligations, I think that advice should have included clear  warnings about the full extent of 
the risk Mr V would be taking,  and clear  advice to not to switch away from his existing pension.  It was 
clearly unsuitable for Mr V to put all of his, albeit modest, pension into the unlisted  shares of one 
company. And, if giving advice, Meese and Associates should have explained  why the switch  to the 
SIPP and associated investment were unsuitable. But I think,  in such circumstances, Mr V would still 
have followed the advice of Mr S, and gone ahead and made  the investment regardless.  
Risk warnings would  have been unlikely to deter Mr V as hed clearly already formed the view this 
was a good opportunity, based on what hed been told by Mr S and, most likely, other members  of the 
group. It also seems likely Mr V had already experienced the downsides of such investments  so he 
was prepared to make  a similar investment on the advice  of Mr S despite the likely failure  of a 
previous investment. And I think it unlikely Mr V would  have attached  more  weight to advice from 
Meese and Associates advisor  than he would  to what he was being told by Mr S, in these 
circumstances. 
Having made  Mr V aware of all the risks, it would  have  been fair and reasonable for Meese  and 
Associates advisor to sign the advisor  declarations. So I think  the transfer, switch  and investment 
would have gone ahead, had advice been  given by Meese  and Associates. 
Had Meese and Associates advisor refused to act at all I think it unlikely that would have deterred Mr 
V, in the circumstances. I think his insistence  on making  the investment would have been sufficient  for 
him  or, more  likely  Mr S and/or other members of the group  to have explored  alternatives. Other 
members of the group  who had attempted to invest earlier  than Mr V had already been turned away 
by one SIPP  operator. But they had sought out another SIPP operator, rather than giving up. So I 
think a refusal by Meese and Associates  advisor to act would have led Mr V, or Mr S and/or  other 
members of the group,  to find another advisor who would have given  advice (in which case such 
advice would likely have been as I have set out above,  and achieved  the same  outcome). Or to find a 
SIPP operator  which did not require a regulated advisor to be involved (I think this would have been 
possible at the time). So I am satisfied  an alternate route to making  the switch,  and investment,  would 
have been found. 
Overall, this means that although I empathise with the position Mr V finds  himself  in, and do feel that it 
would have been fair and reasonable for Meese and Associates not to have acted as it did, I do not 
think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint. I am not persuaded that Meese  and 
Associates could have done anything to change the course of events. I think  it more likely  than not 
that Mr V would have invested in Resina  Golf,  no matter what Meese  and Associates did, and would 
therefore have suffered  his loss regardless. So my provisional decision is that this complaint should 
not be upheld. 
Ref: DRN0670431