K821x#15complaint
Ms T has complained that PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender acted irresponsibly 
when it provided  a number of loans to her between  2015 and 2017. 
background
Ms T took 5 high-cost  short-term instalments loans with Mr Lender.  This table includes some 
of the information Mr Lender has provided about Ms Ts borrowing. 
 Borrowed 
DateClosed  
DatePrincipal 
Loan 123/06/15 31/10/15 £500
Loan 212/11/15 27/05/16 £500
Loan 328/05/16 30/11/16 £500
Loan 401/06/17 30/11/17 £600
Loan 530/11/17 31/05/18 £500
In the most recent assessment of Ms Ts complaint, one of our adjudicators  recommended  
that it should be upheld in relation to Loans 4 and 5. Mr Lender doesnt  agree. As the 
complaint hasnt been resolved it has come  to me  an ombudsman  for a final decision.  If 
Ms T accepts my decision it will be binding on the parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender provided the loans in question while it was authorised and regulated  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA).
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with. These  included  PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: A firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC)  set out the rules  and guidance which  apply to 
credit providers like Mr Lender when providing  loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in 
relation to responsible lending.  
Section 5.2.1R of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
borrower a loan saying:
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must undertake
an assessment of the creditworthiness of the customer.
And at Section  5.2.1(2):
Ref: DRN00955432(a) the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  is to 
be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of 
the regulated  credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
CONC also included guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) 
saying:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  
on, for example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought  and the potential  risks to 
the customer. The risk of credit not being  sustainable directly  relates  to the amount  of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit  relative  to the customers  financial 
situation.
CONC 5.3 contained further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking 
about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) saying:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account  more than assessing the customers ability 
to repay  the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then added:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps  to assess the customers  ability to 
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner 
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse  
consequences.
CONC 5.3.1G(6) clarified  what is meant  by sustainable:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated 
credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue  difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within  a reasonable period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and 
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
Ref: DRN00955433CONC 5.3.1G (4) added that if a firm does take account of income and expenditure in its 
credit worthiness assessment:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
(c) its assessment should be based  on what  the firm knows at the time of the 
assessment
Whilst CONC sets out the regulatory framework that authorised consumer credit providers 
have to adhere to it represents a minimum standard for firms. And - as an ombudsman - Im 
also required  to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are some overarching  questions  I need  to consider in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Ts complaint: 
Did Mr Lender complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Ms T would be able to repay  her loans  in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a 
fair lending decision? If not, would those checks have shown that she wouldve 
been able to do so?
Did Mr Lender act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive outlined above some  of the regulations in place at the time Mr Lender provided  the loans 
to Ms T. It had to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could 
afford to repay them in a sustainable way. 
The checks  Mr Lender carried out had to be proportionate to the specific  circumstances of 
each loan.  And what is proportionate will depend  on a number  of factors including  things like 
the consumers  financial history and current situation as well as things  such as the amount, 
type and cost of the credit  being  sought.
It is important  to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types  and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough  to be able to reasonably  assess  the sustainability  
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other  words, the assessment needs  to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender  of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequence  as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC,  the risk to the consumer  directly  relates  to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would  likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed  what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same  consumer in other circumstances.
Ref: DRN00955434Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. I 
note that Ms T says that Mr Lender wouldve realised she was in financial difficulties if it had 
asked to see her banks statements. But it may not always be proportionate for a lender, 
such as Mr Lender, to do a full financial review of a borrowers circumstances. As I've 
explained, what may be proportionate varies  dependent on a number of different factors.   
And certain  factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms T. These factors include, but 
are not limited to:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
All of this means  that Mr Lender was required to establish whether Ms T could sustainably 
repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation.  The loan payments being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because,  as Ive set out above,  CONC  defines  sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties.  And in particular  the customer should  be able to make  repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. It follows a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  
sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  what a reasonable and proportionate check  shouldve  looked like 
when Mr Lender was in the process of approving the loans for Ms T. For ease of reference 
Ive rounded the figures involved.
Mr Lender asked Ms T for details of her income and outgoings. It has also shown us some 
details of the results  of credit file searches it did. For Loans 1 and 2 Ms T declared  a monthly 
income of £1,200 and outgoings  of £734  leaving her with a disposable income of £466.  
The highest  repayment on Loan 1 was due to be £207 in the first month  and after that they 
were due to reduce each month  so that the last repayment - in December 2015 - shouldve 
been £101. 
Ms T actually repaid Loan 1 at the end of October  2015. And 12 days later she applied  for 
Loan 2. The amount borrowed  was the same  - £500. The highest  repayment - due in 
December was to be £247. Although that was slightly  higher than for Loan 1, she had repaid 
Loan 1 early. And given that there wasnt anything to chime  alarm bells in the results  of 
Ref: DRN00955435credit check  Mr Lender did, I dont think I can fairly  say that at this stage, it needed to do 
more for these two loans.
However when Ms T applied for Loan 3 I think Mr Lender shouldve done more.  
Loan 2 went to term and was repaid on the day before Ms T took Loan 3. She was again 
borrowing £500 - and again  being  tied into making  repayments for six months.  Shed  now 
been borrowing  from Mr Lender for eleven  months   this loan was going  to mean shed be 
borrowing from Mr Lender for almost a year and a half without any real breaks.  And she 
wasnt reducing the amount she was borrowing. 
This sort of credit was intended to be used as a short-term solution to temporary  cash-flow 
problems. The fact that Ms T was again asking  for a loan shouldve  alerted Mr Lender to 
satisfy itself of her financial circumstances. I accept  that it did a credit check  again but the 
results are limited. 
Ms T has provided  a copy of her credit file and some bank statements. 
Ms Ts credit file shows that for some time prior to May 2016 shed been borrowing from 
other high cost lenders. Some of these were  short-term lenders  - others longer term -  
including a log book  loan company. She had credit  cards and a high cost revolving credit 
facility. The lenders who provided credit  to Ms T were lenders whose business  model  meant 
that they specialised in providing credit to people with poor credit histories. 
Ms Ts bank statements for April and May 2016 show  a lot of cash  withdrawals and some bill 
payments. They  also include some transactions to high cost credit providers. Additionally  it 
seems she may have had other income sources which  meant that her monthly income was 
higher than the £1,389  recorded for her main employment.  
Had it done more  thorough checks  Mr Lender wouldve seen that Ms Ts financial 
circumstances were  precarious. But, taking all the information together  at the point she 
took Loan 3  I'm not persuaded that, had it done  proportionate  checks, there was so much 
credit to be repaid  or that her normal outgoings were  so high that Mr Lender wouldve been 
wrong to conclude that shed be able to repay this loan sustainably.  
So I'm not upholding Ms Ts complaint about Loans  1, 2 and 3.
Ms T repaid Loan 3 in line with the agreement in November 2016. Six months later she 
returned to Mr Lender for Loan 4. I'm not persuaded by Mr Lenders argument that the gap in 
lending was nearer  to twelve months  (from  when she applied  for Loan 3 to when she applied  
for Loan 4). The fact remains that she was still repaying Loan 3 until November 2016. And in 
the 19 months of borrowing from Mr Lender there  had only been  13 days during which  she 
wasnt indebted to it.
So whilst I accept that there was a break  in the borrowing,  I'm not satisfied that Mr Lender 
wouldve been right to conclude that Ms T was not therefore reliant on high-cost short-term  
credit. This was Ms Ts fourth loan in two years. And she was borrowing more  money  - £600. 
Had it done proportionate checks at the point Loan  3 was advanced it wouldve had cause to 
be concerned about  how robust her financial situation was  she had ben borrowing from at 
least three high-cost  short-term lenders  and numerous other high cost lenders, even using 
her car as security against one of the loans, just a few weeks  before Loan 3. 
Ref: DRN00955436In these circumstances and despite  the gap of six months between repaying  Loan 3 and 
taking Loan 4, I think Mr Lender shouldve done  more than rely on Ms Ts stated income and 
expenditure and its credit  file results. It shouldve satisfied itself through further checks  that 
Ms T was going to be able to sustainably afford Loans 4 and 5. And Im not persuaded that it 
did do proportionate checks  when it provided those  loans  to Ms T. 
So I've once again looked at the banks statements and credit  report to help me understand 
whether  had Mr Lender done proportionate  checks  it wouldve  concluded  that she could  
afford to repay these  two loans sustainably.
Throughout the break between Loans 3 and 4 Ms T frequently  borrowed and repaid multiple  
other creditors but some of those loans were still outstanding at the point she took Loan 4. 
Indeed there  were  some loans taken prior to taking  Loan 3  for example Ms T had 
borrowed £4,000  from Lender I in 2016  which wasnt repaid until early  2018. And during  the 
break between Mr Lender loans, Ms T borrowed over £1000 from a high-cost short-term 
instalment loan provider. This too was repaid  whilst she had Loan 5. Shed  also taken 
several loans from Lender G  including one for £500 a few weeks  before Loan  4 - which  
appears to have been used to repay an earlier loan from Lender G. 
And Ms Ts situation deteriorated  further before she took Loan  5. Her long-standing credit  
card had a credit limit of £3,620 which  she was regularly exceeding. Her other credit card 
had provided a credit limit of £250  until July 2017  at which  point it was increased to £1,000. 
This increase in the credit limit was matched with an increase in her outstanding balance up 
to that limit and she even  made expensive cash withdrawals on this credit card  in my 
experience and indicator of financial pressure. And whilst Loan 4 was running Ms T took 
three instalment loans  from Lender E  two were  for more than £300 and the third was for 
over £400.  These were repaid after shed taken Loan 5.
Mr Lender argues that as the amount of the loan decreased  to £500 this was an indicator 
that Ms T was not using  the loan to support her income. It says that if this had been the 
case, shed have been borrowing higher amounts. Im not persuaded by this. Looking  
narrowly at this single reduction in the amount being borrowed from Mr Lender fails to take 
account of Ms Ts numerous other loans and credit facilities and her increasing indebtedness  
to other  high cost lenders: something  Mr Lender  wouldve seen  had it done  proportionate 
checks. 
If Mr Lender had done proportionate checks before providing Loans 4 and 5 it wouldve 
concluded from this pattern  of borrowing-repaying-borrowing multiple high-cost loans over 
short periods, that Ms T was using  high cost loans such as Loans  4 and 5 from Mr Lender to 
plug the hole in her finances left by repaying  earlier credit. Her finances were in a very 
precarious situation and as a responsible lender, Mr Lender  wouldve  declined her 
applications for further credit as it wouldve been  clear to it that it wasnt  likely shed be able 
to repay  these loans  from sustainable means.  
So I think Mr Lender acted unfairly  when it provided  Loans 4 and 5 to Ms T and she lost out 
as a result. These loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Ms Ts indebtedness by 
allowing her to take expensive credit  intended for short-term  use.
Ref: DRN00955437putting things right
Mr Lender shouldnt have  provided Loans  4 and 5 to Ms T. To put things right I require it to:
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms T towards  interest, fees and 
charges on Loans 4 and 5, 
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Ms T which were 
considered as part of A, calculated  from the date she originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Ms T the total of A plus B.
D.Remove any adverse  information it has recorded  on Ms Ts credit  file in relation to 
Loans 4 and 5. 
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. It should  give Ms T a certificate 
showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I uphold Ms Ts complaint in part about PDL Finance Limited 
and require it to put things  right in the way I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0095543