K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains about MBNA Limited  (MBNA) regarding MBNA  stopping its air miles 
incentive part way through  a year, and information  given  to Miss W about  her spending to 
date. She wants to be compensated for the incentive which she was likely to earn, and for 
her distress  and inconvenience. 
background
Miss W signed  up to an MBNA  account  in March 2016. She paid an annual fee of £150 at 
the beginning of that year and each subsequent year. 
Between 2016 and 2018, MBNA was linked with an airline. It ran an air miles incentive for 
customers spending more  than £15,000  per year in qualifying transactions. 
Miss W earned  the reward in the 2016/17 year, and then again in the 2017/18  year. As her 
reward she received  companion  flights  which  she used for high value journeys of around 
£2500 each. 
Miss W reached  the qualifying spend for 2017/2018 in October 2017. 
Miss W then continued using the account, into the 2018/19 year. 
In June 2018, Miss W received an email explaining  that from late July 2018  MBNA would be 
ending its relationship with the airline and would  from that date onwards no longer offer the 
air miles  incentive. 
Miss W telephoned  MBNA in early  July with queries. 
During her call she explained that she had not yet used  her 2017/18 reward  ticket  and asked  
whether it would remain valid, and for how long. The agent she spoke to advised her that 
whilst he believed that the rewards were valid for a year she should  check  with the flying  
club. He provided  a contact number. 
Miss W then asked  whether she would  still be able to qualify for a 2018/19 reward if she met 
the spending threshold by the date when the scheme would end. She was advised that she 
would. 
Miss W told the agent that she had last hit the threshold in October 2017, and asked the 
agent how much she had spent since October  2017. 
The agent  advised her that this was a question for the flying club and that she would need to 
contact them. He did, however, then put her on hold for a period and calculated  the amount 
she had spent since October 2017.
Miss W said she believed that she had very little left to spend  to reach the qualifying  amount, 
and asked to confirm that the threshold was £15000.  The agent confirmed it was.
Miss W and the agent then discussed  the mechanism for MBNA transferring  information to 
the airline, and when  she would notionally receive a reward after reaching the qualifying  
spend. 
Ref: DRN08810052Miss W advised  the agent that she was about  to spend £6000  on her account  and that she 
thought she had reached the level. The agent  checked and advised  Miss W that if she met 
the threshold before the scheme end date then she would  definitely be entitled  to the reward  
for that year. 
The call then drew to an end. In the final part of the conversation the agent  said words to the 
effect of youre not far off, you will definitely  hit that target. 
Miss W subsequently made  her spend of nearly £6000 before the deadline. 
The deadline  then passed and Miss W did not receive her reward.  She contacted MBNA and 
was informed that she had not met the spending threshold for the relevant year.
Miss W complained to MBNA. She felt she had been  wrongly advised by the agent  and had 
missed the opportunity to receive  the reward.
Over the course of her complaint she spoke to a different agent who provided  incorrect  
information about whether Miss W had been charged the account fee for the 2018/19 year.  
The agent  did, however, credit  the fee back to Miss W. This left a credit  balance on Miss Ws 
account which she asked  to be left in place  pending  her complaint resolution. 
MBNA sent her a final response in September 2018.  This discussed the July call and said 
that specific figures for her remaining spend had not been  discussed. The letter offered to 
provide a call recording  if required. 
Miss W responded and requested the call recording. 
A further  final response was sent to her in November 2018. This set out that in her account 
year (being  the year from the anniversary  of her account opening up until the end of the air 
miles scheme) she had fallen more  than £1000 short of the spending threshold.  
Miss W was not happy with this and after some further communication,  including in which 
she requested the call recording again,  MBNA deposited £50 into her account as a goodwill 
gesture. 
Miss W was not happy with this response and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into his matter and set out his view to the parties.  He 
considered that the agent who Miss W spoke  to in July did not give incorrect information, 
and directed Miss W to the flying club customer services for confirmation of her outstanding 
spend. He felt that Miss W had received some poor service  in having to chase  repeatedly for 
the call recording,  and for being given incorrect information about whether  she had paid the 
account fee in March  2018. He felt that the £50 compensation offered by MBNA  was 
reasonable to reflect  this and he did not feel that MBNA should  do anything  further.  
Miss W did not accept this view. She has set out that she feels  that she was misinformed, in 
particular because of the agents  closing remarks that she was not far off, that she was 
entitled to a full year of the air miles scheme,  and that £50 compensation is insufficient to 
reflect her lost opportunity  of receiving a reward which  would have been  worth more than 
£2500 to her. 
She has therefore requested an ombudsman decision. 
Ref: DRN08810053my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have paid particular  attention to the telephone recordings  available, including Miss Ws 
conversation in early  July, and her subsequent conversation in which the account  fee was 
discussed. 
Firstly I should set out that I understand Miss Ws frustration and disappointment at the 
scheme ending. It is clear that she made  use of the scheme and that she made efforts  to 
ensure that she would qualify for the scheme.  I appreciate that she feels  she has lost out as 
a result of the scheme ending, and because  she believes  she was wrongly  informed of what 
she needed to do to qualify. 
I do, however,  have  to look at whether MBNA was wrong in its actions, and only if it was 
wrong can I look at directing compensation for the consequences. 
Looking firstly at MBNAs decision to stop its association with the airline, I have reviewed the 
terms and conditions and see that MBNA was entitled to change the terms of its cards, or to 
end any account,  by giving 30 days notice. MBNA has provided evidence that it first gave 
notice in early June 2018 of its intention to end the scheme on 21 July 2018. Miss W has 
commented that she did not receive  the earlier  notification, but there is evidence that it was 
sent. I am therefore  satisfied that MBNA was entitled to end the scheme.  
Miss W feels  that MBNA  must have known at the time of taking her account fee in March 
2018 that it was not going  to be able to offer a full year of the scheme, and so should not 
have taken the fee. I do not agree. I note that as the start date for each customers qualifying 
year is on the date, or anniversary, or them signing up to the account,  and that consequently 
MBNA would  not have  been able to ensure  that all customers received a full year of the 
scheme before a termination date. It was therefore reasonable for MBNA to use the 
provision in its terms and conditions to make  the changes, so long as it gave each affected 
customer 30 days notice of the scheme end. 
In respect of the July call, I appreciate that Miss W feels that her intention  in calling was 
clear, that she wanted to ensure that she qualified. I agree that it was apparent that Miss W 
was enquiring about her eligibility  for the reward, but the agent she spoke to made clear 
early on in the call, and repeatedly thereafter, that he would not be able to confirm her 
entitlement, and that Miss W would need  to call the flying club to get this confirmation.  
Miss W then went on to ask specific questions which were relevant to her eligibility,  such  as 
when customers could  spend up until, and what the threshold was. This information may 
have then informed  Miss Ws expectation of her entitlement, but the information  provided 
was not a definitive assessment, as MBNA  had explained that this assessment needed to 
come from the flying club. 
Miss W asked the specific question of what her spend had been  from October  2017  up until 
July 2018, and was given  accurate information in response to that question.  Miss W was, 
however, asking this on the incorrect assumption  that her qualifying  period ran from the 
previous October, rather than from her account anniversary date. The agent  then discussed 
Ref: DRN08810054whether she would qualify, including making  his final comments  that she was not far off, in 
the context of the qualifying year that Miss W had set out. 
I appreciate that Miss W feels  that the agent should  have checked and corrected her 
understanding of the qualifying period, but I do not agree. The agent had made clear MBNA 
was not in a position  to confirm eligibility  and this needed to be checked  with the flying  club 
to be definitive.
Consequently, whilst  I accept that the information was not an accurate reflection of Miss W;s 
qualifying spend  to date, I do not think that MBNA was wrong to give the information  it gave,  
in response to the questions asked. I therefore agree with the adjudicators view that MBNA 
did not do anything  significantly wrong during this call. 
Miss W later complained, and was offered the call recording. I accept that she was not 
provided this promptly  and had to send  several requests before the recording was sent. I 
think that this was a failing  in service, and caused Miss W to have to make repeated 
requests. 
Miss W also queried whether she had paid the account fee for the 2018/19 year. I have  
listened to this call and agree that the agent Miss W spoke with gave  incorrect information, in 
that he intermittently  advised that Miss W had not been charged  a fee for the current year, 
when she had. The agent did ultimately  advise  Miss W correctly and offered her a refund of 
the account fee, which was then credited to her account. I agree that this was a failing in 
service, but think that it was quickly remedied.  
I understand that Miss W found  these issues  frustrating but I think that MBNAs subsequent 
goodwill offer of £50 is appropriate to reflect the impact of MBNAs failings in service  (the 
delays in sending  the call recording and the confusing  information given in the later call). 
I understand that Miss W feels that this offer is inadequate to reflect  her disappointment, but 
I consider that the vast majority of Miss Ws upset  is from the cessation  of the scheme, and 
that she did not qualify for another reward before the end date. For the reasons set out 
above I do not think that MBNA did anything substantially wrong in relation to those issues 
so I cannot consider the disappointment  which flowed from them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Miss Ws complaints about incorrect information 
about her account  fee being given,  and that MBNA delayed in sending  her the call recording, 
but think that MBNA Limited has made a reasonable offer of compensation to reflect  those 
issues. 
I do not uphold  the remainder of Miss Ws complaint and do not ask MBNA Limited to do 
anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss W to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0881005