K822xcomplaint
Mr G on behalf of F, a limited company,  has complained  that Society of Lloyds unfairly 
declined a claim under a marine  insurance policy.
background 
F owned  a yacht. Mr G said the yacht was completely destroyed  when it was lifted out of the 
water by a tornado and dropped upside  down.  He said at the time the yacht was laid up in a 
hurricane dock prepared for a named hurricane.
F made a claim  to Lloyds through its broker. Lloyds said it wouldnt  pay the claim as the 
policy didnt cover damage caused by named storms  unless Lloyds  had previously received 
and approved a hurricane  plan. It said it hadnt  received or approved  a hurricane plan.
Mr G said hed sent the broker the hurricane plan when  he took out the policy. The plan had 
been approved  by his previous insurer. It appears  that the broker  never forwarded it to 
Lloyds due to an administrative  error.
Mr G says the broker never sent F a copy of the certificate of insurance. So he didnt know  
that F wasnt covered  under  the policy for named storms.  The broker has since stopped  
trading.
Mr G brought Fs complaint to this service. I issued a provisional  decision explaining  why I 
was minded to uphold  the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
The requirement for a hurricane plan to be received and approved by Lloyds was a 
condition precedent  to liability for cover against  damage caused by named storms.
Technically this means Lloyds could  use the failure  to comply with this to decline  Fs claim 
for damage  caused  by a named storm.
But this service doesnt consider it reasonable to decline a claim in this way where the 
policyholder isnt considered to be a sophisticated  buyer of insurance unless the 
circumstances of the claim are connected to the breach and so the breach has prejudiced  
the insurers position.
In this case Lloyds  has confirmed that it probably  would have accepted Fs hurricane plan 
as drafted.  It also wouldnt have charged an additional premium  for named storm cover. I 
dont think the fact that, through  no fault of Fs, Lloyds didnt receive the hurricane plan has 
prejudiced its position  now.
F is owned  by Mr G and Mrs G. F has owned the yacht for a number of years  and it was 
available to charter. It seems this was Fs main  business activity. I dont consider Mr and 
Mrs G to be experienced buyers of insurance.
Since Lloyds didnt accept the claim,  it hasnt  investigated whether the hurricane plan was 
properly followed by Fs crew. So I think Lloyds should now reconsider this claim as if F had 
named windstorm cover  at the time of the loss.
Ref: DRN06495092Mr G accepted my provisional  decision.  In summary Lloyds made the following  points  in 
response:
F has filed complaints  with various  entities abroad in relation to this matter which have  
been dismissed.
F ran a business  using the yacht  on a commercial basis  and so should be considered a 
sophisticated buyer of insurance.
I was disregarding the policy wording  and applicable law.
F had a remedy for the failure  of its broker because the broker had cover under its 
professional indemnity  policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen  any evidence that the merits of Fs complaint against Lloyds have actually 
been considered elsewhere. So I think it is appropriate for me to look at this complaint.
Ive looked again at whether Mr and Mrs G (who took out the policy on behalf of F) can 
properly be considered as unsophisticated  buyers  of insurance. By way of comparison a 
large business with a more complex structure  with in-house professional advisers  would 
clearly be sophisticated.  Here there  was a relatively small business which owned one 
asset. Just because Mr and Mrs G were running a business, I havent seen anything to 
suggest they were  particularly experienced in matters of insurance.  I think its reasonable to 
treat them and/or F as though they were ordinary consumers for this purpose.
This service operates an informal dispute  resolution  scheme. Our decisions are based on 
what we believe to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each individual case.  We 
take into account the law, rules, codes and good practice that applied  at the time of the 
event complained about. I appreciate  that technically the policy  wording entitled  Lloyds to 
use the failure to comply  with the requirement to provide  a hurricane plan as a ground  to 
decline Fs claim. But for the reason explained  in my provisional findings I dont think it was 
fair and reasonable for Lloyds to rely on this in the circumstances of this claim.  
In this complaint  Im only looking at whether Lloyds has treated F fairly and reasonably. In 
reaching a decision  about that Ive considered the facts and evidence available  to me and 
come to a decision about what Lloyds should do to put F back  into the position it would have 
been in if Lloyds had treated it fairly and reasonably. This isnt a complaint about Fs broker. 
So I havent taken  into account any remedies F may or may not have against its broker  in 
other jurisdictions. Obviously if Lloyds pays out an award, it is entitled to claim subrogation 
rights if it thinks it can make a recovery against another  party. F should co-operate in any 
such claim as appropriate. 
Where I uphold  a complaint, there  are limits on the amount  I can award. In this case the limit 
is £150,000 plus any interest, costs  and interest on costs that I consider appropriate. If 
Lloyds settles  this claim, the amount due is likely to exceed £150,000. Where I think  the 
compensation will exceed £150,000, I can recommend that a business should pay the 
balance but it will not be bound to do so even  if F accepts my decision. Mr G may wish to 
take legal  advice before deciding whether to accept my decision since  F may not be able to 
take court action  regarding any amount in excess of £150,000.
Ref: DRN06495093my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Society  of Lloyds  to reconsider Fs claim as if F had 
named windstorm cover  under the policy at the time of the loss. If it then settles the claim 
and the amount due is more than £150,000, it must pay £150,000. And I recommend  that it 
should pay any additional amount over £150,000 to the value of the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G on behalf of 
F to accept or reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0649509