K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr V says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Vs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr V has said the PPI was added  without his knowledge as he doesnt remember a 
discussion about PPI. Both BoS and Mr V have  said the credit card and PPI was sold 
through a postal application. So there  would have been no involvement  from a BoS 
representative in the completion of the application as Mr V would have done this in his own 
time. 
BoS has provided a copy of the application  completed. In order  to get PPI a signature, 
separate from the credit, was required.  I can see Mr V has signed separately for PPI which  I 
think indicates that he wanted  the cover. If he didnt want PPI he didnt have to sign for it. So 
I think BoS made it clear  that Mr V didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out 
 although I can understand  why he cant remember this now many  years later. 
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr V so it didnt  have to check  if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr V got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr V about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Mr V has said he would have received 12 months  sick pay from his employer if he wasnt 
well enough to work. This is an unusually generous amount of sick pay and I note that when 
asked, Mr V was not able to provide any evidence to confirm  it. So this has reduced the 
weight Ive been able to place on this aspect of his testimony. 
Mr V has also said he had a large amount of savings at the time of sale. However, hes also 
told us the savings were  earmarked for something  else. So taking everything  in to 
consideration, I still think the PPI would have been  useful  to Mr V.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything    
Mr V paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr V back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. I understand  BoS has already paid this to Mr V.
Ref: DRN06348332my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0634833