K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading  at the time of sale as Halifax) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C bought  a regular premium MPPI policy in December 1996.  The policy covered      
Mr and Mrs C against accidents,  sickness and unemployment. The mortgage  and policy  
ended before April 2008.
Mr and Mrs C think the MPPI policy was mis-sold to them. They  say they were  led to believe 
all paperwork had to be signed in order that they obtain the mortgage. They  say they should 
have been given the option to consent  to have the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  because of the following  reasons:
Halifax has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that was used  
at the time of sale. There is little information  available and so I cant be sure how the 
policy was presented by Halifax to Mr and Mrs C and Ive not been able to see most 
of the original sales documentation (such  as the application form). So its been  
difficult for me to consider  whether Mr and Mrs C were given a choice or not as to 
whether they should have the MPPI  policy (or whether  it was added to their mortgage 
without their consent).
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Halifax sold these policies  
around this time. Ive also not been  able to obtain a detailed  recollection from           
Mr and Mrs C of how the policy was sold at the time of sale either. This is 
understandable considering the many years that have  passed.  So taking these points 
into consideration, I cannot  fairly  conclude on this occasion that the policy  was sold in 
the way Mr and Mrs C say it was (that it was added  without their consent) I just 
havent seen enough to persuade  me that this was the case. 
Moving on, I cant be sure if Halifax recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs C. But 
after reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for them anyway based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. 
I say this because  although Mr and Mrs C have recently said to us that they had sick 
pay and other means, I think the policy would have come in useful in a time of need. 
It would  have also paid in addition to Mr and Mrs Cs provisions.  I think,  on balance, 
Ref: DRN01676332Mr and Mrs C had a need for this cover for any extended period of unemployment or 
sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant  or limiting term 
from the policy documents  provided that would make the policy  unsuitable for them 
either.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  policy  
that Mr and Mrs C took out but even though it has provided information  detailing the 
cover and how much it cost, I cannot  be sure that these costs were  disclosed to      
Mr and Mrs C in a clear  and fair way at the time of sale. That said,  even if they were  
disclosed clearly I dont  think  Mr and Mrs C would have done anything different and 
decided against  having the policy for the reasons that I have already given for the 
policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs C wouldve been  affected  by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold                
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0167633