K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that Financial Insurance  Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
FICL didnt  directly sell the policy; it was the insurer. But its taken responsibility for this sale 
so I shall refer to it as the seller in this decision.
background
I set out the full background to this complaint in my provisional decision which I issued in 
November 2018.  It is attached here and forms part of my final decision.
Mrs K responded to say she agreed with the provisional decision. FICL did not comment.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party had any comment to make on the substance of my provisional decision so I 
see no reason to depart from my conclusion that the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ks complaint and direct Financial  Insurance  Company Limited to pay 
compensation as set out in the putting things  right section of my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00899732Provisional decision
background
Mrs K took out a store card with FICL in 1999. At the same time she bought a PPI policy which 
wouldve helped cover  the repayments on her card if she couldnt work. It also offered purchase and 
price protection.
Mrs K says that she doesnt  think she would have been covered by the policy because  she had an 
existing medical condition when she took the policy.
The adjudicator acknowledged Mrs Ks condition, but didnt think it was serious enough to prevent her 
wanting to take the policy.
Mrs K disagrees, so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im intending to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs K took out the store card and PPI by filling in an application form. FICL  has supplied  a copy  of 
this and I can see that theres a separate section for the PPI. Mrs K has signed to say that she wants  
the cover.  
FICL had an obligation to make  sure Mrs K had all the information she needed so she could make her 
decision. I dont think FICL did this well enough. And I dont think  Mrs K wouldve bought the policy if 
shed had all the information  she required. 
Theres a very brief explanation  of the cover on the application form.  Its a few lines long and doesnt 
include anything  about the exclusions  on the policy. I think this was important information  for Mrs K to 
have.
The policy excluded existing medical conditions  from cover. It said You  must not be aware of any 
sickness, disease, condition or injury  in the 12 months before the start date that may cause you to 
claim for disability  benefits;  or any sickness, disease, condition or injury that may cause you to claim 
for accidental  bodily injury, hospitalisation,  life or accidental death benefits.
I think  it wouldve  been  important for Mrs K to understand  this before she took the PPI. Mrs K had a 
medical condition when she took out the policy. It didnt cause her any significant day-to-day problems 
and she took medication to control  it. But it had consequences for her health in the long term and 
couldve caused or contributed to a number of different serious conditions.  Any conditions  which 
arose as a result  of her existing condition  wouldve been excluded from cover. Indeed,  Mrs K did later 
experience serious health problems  as a result of her condition.
I think  Mrs K wouldve viewed her condition, or another disease or condition related to it, as the most  
likely reason for her to need to make a claim  on the policy.  So if FICL had made her aware that it 
would be excluded from cover I dont think shed have thought  the policy offered her a useful benefit  
and I dont think  shed have bought it.
So I think Mrs K lost out as a result of what FICL did wrong.
putting things  right
Ref: DRN00899733FICL should put Mrs K in the financial  position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. FICL should find out how much  Mrs K would have owed when she closed her account if the 
policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges. 
FICL should then refund the difference between what Mrs K owed when she closed her account 
and what she would have  owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs K made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her. 
B. FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs K would have owed when 
he closed  his account from when he closed  it until he gets the refund. The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
C. If  when  FICL  works out what Mrs K would  have owed  each month without PPI  Mrs K paid 
more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs K 
paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point  when  Mrs K wouldve owed FICL  
something on her card. The interest rate should be 8%.
D. FICL should tell Mrs K what its done to work out A, B and C.
E. If the lender has already repaid  any commission  amount to Mrs K that relates  to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by FICL from the redress shown  above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give   Mrs K a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. If my decision becomes final I shall direct Financial  
Insurance Company  Limited to pay compensation as described  above. 
I will consider any further evidence either party  wishes  to provide before 29 December 2018 before I 
make my final decision.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0089973