K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC has closed his account.
background
Mr O said that Barclays  had told him it was closing  his current  account because  of 
unacceptable behaviour. And it had told him that his existing overdraft needed to be repaid. 
But Mr O said that Barclays shouldnt have  done  that, it didnt have the power  to because he 
hadnt acted in the way that Barclays said. 
Mr O said that Barclays  wouldnt explain why, and what happened. 
Barclays said that it had made a decision  to close Mr Os account,  after an incident in the 
branch. Barclays said that Mr O had asked  to withdraw money without his debit card, but 
then had objected  to being asked  questions to verify his identity. Barclays said Mr O had 
been abusive to staff.  It said that this had happened on other  occasions  too. It sent our 
service witness  statements, setting out what had happened.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that he thought  that in these 
circumstances Barclays was entitled to close Mr Os account immediately, but it had given 
him two weeks notice of the closure. Our adjudicator thought  that was reasonable. 
Our adjudicator said that he had checked  about a payment  Mr O said had been  made  into 
the account, and Barclays  had said it would  pay that back, if Mr O entered into an agreement 
to pay off the outstanding overdraft within the next seven days. 
Mr O didnt agree with that. He thought wed got it wrong. Because Mr O didnt agree, the 
case was passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Barclays has sent witness statements, which say that Mr O has previously been abusive to 
its staff, and that after an incident  in branch on 27 September 2018, it had decided  to close  
his account. It gave him two weeks notice of that. 
Mr O says that Barclays got this wrong, and he hadnt behaved  like this. Ive read the 
witness statements carefully,  and I think that Barclays was entitled,  under its terms and 
conditions, to close Mr Os account. I think that it acted reasonably in giving Mr O two weeks 
notice of that closure. I think that this decision was made because  of Barclays  concerns 
about Mr Os behaviour. I dont think that Barclays has treated Mr O unfairly, or differently 
from any other customer in a similar position
Mr O also told us that £350 had been paid into this account by mistake, after it shouldve 
been closed. I know that Barclays said to Mr O that any money  which was paid in after the 
account was closed would be sent back to whichever bank sent it. But when  this money was 
received, the account was still open.  Thats  because  Mr O owed Barclays  some money, and 
he hadnt yet made  any arrangement to pay that.
Ref: DRN05958322Mr O hasnt suggested that the money  wasnt intended for him. The reference sent with the 
payment makes me think it was intended  for him. And Ive not seen anything  to suggest that 
the sending bank has tried to recall this payment.
Our service spoke to Barclays  about  this before our adjudicator reached his view. Barclays 
said then that it would still send the money  back, if Mr O contacted  it and reached an 
agreement to pay off his overdraft. I understand that Mr O hasnt done that. So Barclays  
says it wont pay the money back.  
Mr O does still owe Barclays more than this amount. And theres no arrangement to pay that 
debt off. So I dont  think its unreasonable for Barclays to say in these circumstances that it 
wont increase Mr Os debt to it, by paying that money back  to the sending  bank.  
I know that Mr O will be disappointed, but I dont think  that his complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0595832