K820x#14Complaint
Mrs D complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund a series  of payments made using  
her debit card and which she says she didnt make or authorise.
Background
Mrs D was on holiday abroad. Shes explained that her purse was stolen while  she was 
shopping. She cant say exactly when or how it was taken, but its likely  it was lifted from 
her bag while she was in a shop. As soon as she realised her purse was missing,  she went  
to the nearest Santander branch to report her card stolen. It took a little while  to do this  
because of the language  barrier - but she eventually was able to speak to someone  in the 
UK who cancelled  her card. Mrs D asked what the balance was on her account  and, as it 
was what she expected, she felt relieved that the card hadnt been used. But she later 
checked her balance and realised several  transactions had taken place and around  £1,500  
had debited her account.
Santander looked into the transactions that Mrs D said she didnt make, but said it would 
not refund  them. The bank believed  that Mrs D had probably written down her PIN number 
and kept this in her purse, along  with the card.
Mrs D didnt accept that and referred  her complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
considered it but agreed with Santander.
Mrs D remained unhappy. She said, in summary,  that she hadnt done anything  wrong and 
hadnt knowingly  given  her PIN number to anyone.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have however come to broadly  the same  
conclusions as the investigator.
Im satisfied the disputed  transactions  were  made  using Mrs Ds genuine card,  rather  than 
a copy of it. That is of course consistent with someone having stolen her purse which  
contained the card. Im satisfied as well that the card was used with the PIN associated 
with it. The PIN isnt kept in unencrypted form on the card itself, and its unlikely that 
anyone would have  been able to guess it.
So I need to decide how the person  who stole Mrs Ds purse wouldve known her PIN. And 
the most  likely explanation is that Mrs D had written her PIN down and kept it with the 
card. When  she phoned Santander to report the card stolen, she told it she leaves a note 
of the PIN number  with the card because she sometimes forgets it. She later said she 
didnt think shed done this on this occasion. But I think its most likely what  she told 
Santander when  she first spoke to it was accurate. It explains how someone could have 
used Mrs Ds card so easily once they had stolen  it. I cant see how else someone could 
have known this information, particularly as Mrs D hadnt used  her card since  shed left the 
UK, so there was no opportunity  for a third party to shoulder  surf her to find out her PIN.
Ref: DRN09485542Did Mrs D fail with intent or gross negligence to comply  with the obligations  set out in 
Regulation 57 of the Payment Services Regulations  2009?
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Mrs D to have kept a written  note of her PIN. She had 
other cards with different PIN numbers and she may not have been able to remember  this 
one.
But I do find she acted against the account terms and conditions. These say that you must:
not write down  or record your PIN, personal security details or personal  information on your 
card (or anything kept with it) or on any documents relating  to your account. If you do write  
down or record your PIN, personal  security  details or personal information, you must 
disguise this information  so that it cannot be understood by anyone else.
There was only one incorrect PIN attempt when her card was stolen, so I find it unlikely  that 
shed done enough to disguise  the information.  If that were the case, Id expect to have seen 
a number of failed attempts that would be in line with someone trying to guess or work out 
the number if it were disguised.
Although she acted against  the account terms and conditions,  it doesnt automatically 
follow that this means she acted  with gross negligence. Ive considered this carefully. In all 
likelihood Mrs D wrote  down the four digit PIN undisguised and put it in the same purse 
that contained her card.  I dont think she anticipated that her purse would be stolen or that 
shed lose it when she did this. But I think she reasonably should have considered that this 
might be a possibility. I think a reasonable person would have had some regard of the risk 
of keeping an undisguised written record of the PIN with their card.
In the circumstances, I dont find Santander is obliged  to refund Mrs D.
When Mrs D phoned to report her card stolen, Santander confirmed her balance  was the 
same as the day before so she felt relieved  that her card hadnt been used. But Santander 
failed to check whether  any card transactions had taken place which  hadnt  yet debited her 
account; which, of course,  they had. Its mistake didnt  lead to any additional financial loss 
for Mrs D  the transactions had already  been  carried out before she called to report the 
theft. But it did add to her distress. Santander  has apologised for this and paid her £100 
compensation which I think this is fair and reasonable.  
Finally Ive considered  whether Santander shouldve identified the transactions as 
unauthorised and blocked the card before Mrs D contacted it. Its systems did trigger  an alert 
because Mrs Ds card was being used outside of the UK. But the alert was removed 
because Mrs Ds mobile phone was in the same location. So, until Mrs D phoned 
Santander, there was nothing  to suggest her card was being used without her authority.
I appreciate this must have been  a very distressing experience for Mrs D and I do 
sympathise. But, for the reasons Ive explained, it wouldnt be fair to require Santander  to 
refund the transactions.
Ref: DRN09485543My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0948554