K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender)  irresponsibly  gave  him 
loans he couldnt  afford to pay back.
background
Mr Lender gave Mr D 3 loans between July and December 2017. 
Mr D says that proportionate checks werent carried out before the loans were provided.  He 
says if these had taken place Mr Lender would  have realised  he was reliant on short  term 
loans and gambling and that the loans werent affordable.
Mr Lender says that before the loans  were provided it carried out through  affordability and 
credit checks. It verified Mr Ds employment  and says based on the information  it gathered  
the lending was affordable.
Our adjudicator thought that there  wasnt enough to say that loan 1 shouldnt have been 
provided. However, at the point of loan 2 Mr Ds borrowing and repayment pattern should  
have alerted the business that Mr D was having problems managing  his money and it 
shouldnt have given  him any further  loans. 
Mr Lender agreed with our adjudicators view and offered to refund all interest and charges 
on loans 2 and 3 and apply it to reduce  the outstanding balance.  Mr D didnt reply to the 
adjudicators view or respond to the offer so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr D could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN07239812There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had enough  evidence to say that loan one should not have 
been provided. I have  looked at the information gathered, including  income and expenditure 
information from the time, and I agree that there isnt enough to say Mr Lender should  not 
have provided  these loans to Mr D. It was early in the lending relationship and there  was no 
reason to doubt what Mr D was saying about  his finances.
Looking at Mr Ds borrowing pattern I can see that he extended his repayment of loan 1 and 
asked to take out loan 2 on the same day that loan 1 was repaid.  He asked for an increased  
amount which  would suggest that he was having  problems  managing  his money  and couldnt 
afford to pay back what he had borrowed without borrowing again. Although the loan looked  
affordable on the figures Mr D gave, it was clear that this was not the case  and the 
repayment on loan 2 was a significant proportion of Mr Ds declared  income.  I think that Mr 
Lender should not have  continued to lend to Mr D without a more  thorough  check of his 
circumstances. I think  at this point Mr Lender should have taken steps to verify what  Mr D 
was saying about his financial circumstances as they appeared at odds with his borrowing 
pattern. If Mr Lender had carried  out more robust checking of Mr Ds circumstances it would 
have seen that Mr D wasnt  responsibly managing his money, had other payday loans and 
was gambling, so further lending was unsustainable. Mr Lender  has agreed with the 
adjudicators assessment  so I dont think I need  to say anything  further. 
So Im upholding  Mr Ds complaint about  loans  2 and 3.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding  debts it should buy these back  before doing what  I 
have outlined below.  If Mr Lender isnt able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner  to achieve the following:
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  it 
has already refunded.
Ref: DRN07239813B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr D which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr D as though  they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr D having made  overpayments  then 
these should be refunded  with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Mr Lender should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and 
move to step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr D. However if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then Mr Lender  should  try to agree  an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr D.
E.Remove all adverse entries  from Mr Ds credit  file for loans 2 and 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr 
Lender) should put things  right as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0723981