K820x#14complaint
Mr N and Miss B complain that their joint loan with The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc was 
unfairly defaulted. 
background
Mr N and Miss B took a joint loan with RBS in 2012.  From April 2015  arrears accrued on the 
loan. 
RBS contacted Mr N and Miss B and issued a default notice on 28 July 2015. 
In November 2015 a £1 payment arrangement for 12 months  was agreed.  Payments were  
made and on 6 November 2016  NatWest wrote to Mr N and Miss B and asked them to make 
contact to review the payment arrangement. 
RBS applied a default to the loan in December  2016 after the existing payment arrangement 
ended without a new one being  agreed. Miss B contacted  RBS in December 2016 but the 
decision to default  the loan had already  been  made.
In December 2017 Mr N contacted RBS to discuss the account and was told it had been 
defaulted. In addition, Miss B had some difficulties making her December 2017 payment 
because of problems  with her bank. In April 2018 payments of £3 per month began. 
Mr N complained to RBS because he didnt feel the decision to default  the account  was fair. 
RBS responded  on 19 November  2018  but didnt  agree that the decision to default the loan 
was wrong. However,  RBS backdated the default date to 23 October  2015  which  was the 
date the loan account was transferred to its recoveries department. RBS explained that the 
default would continue to be reported  until 2021  and paid £38.10 to cover  call costs and the 
frustration caused  by RBS recording the default in December 2015 instead  of October 2015. 
Mr N and Miss B referred the complaint to this service an investigator looked at what had 
happened. RBS told the investigator that it was going to remove  two arrears markers  itd 
previously reported  in 2013 because  Mr N and Miss B had made  the payments later in the 
month. The investigator thought RBS decision to amend the default to October 2015 was 
fair and didnt ask it to do anything else to resolve the complaint. Mr N and Miss B didnt  
agree so the complaints been  passed  to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief when setting out the background above as Mr N and the 
investigator have both set out the circumstances  of this complaint  in detail. But I want  to 
assure Mr N and Miss B as well as RBS that Ive read and considered everything thats been 
submitted when deciding how to proceed.  
In this case I think the key events  took place around  November 2016.  On 6 November 2016  
RBS wrote to Mr N and Miss B about their payment arrangement as the existing 12 month 
term had ended. But RBS didnt receive a response  which meant it took the decision to 
Ref: DRN07602232default the loan. Im sorry to disappoint Mr N and Miss B but Im satisfied RBS decision was 
fair. 
Ive listened to the call Mr N had with RBS in December 2017  (a year after the default  was 
applied) and he failed the security questions asked in part because he didnt provide correct 
address details. It appears Mr N had moved  without updating RBS which means he didnt 
receive its letters. 
Miss B contacted RBS around the middle  of December 2016 but by this point the payment 
arrangement had already failed and the loan was in the process of being defaulted. 
Miss B has said that there were some  issues with her payments in December 2017 but that 
doesnt affect RBS  decision  to default the loan twelve months earlier.  
I think its reasonable to note that at no point  did RBS agree to accept  reduced  payments of 
£1 per month indefinitely. The 12 month payment  arrangement  agreed  in October 2015 was 
temporary. RBS has said that even  at the current £3 per month level the outstanding 
balance will take around 86 years to repay. Without an increased  offer or payment I think  its 
more likely than not that the loan account would  still have  been defaulted at some point. 
Both RBS and the investigator have made the point that by applying  the default  in 
October 2015 it will drop off Mr N and Miss Bs credit files in 2021.  But if an ongoing  
payment arrangement of £1 a month was still in place this would continue to be reported on 
Mr N and Miss Bs credit file. Whilst a default arguably has a greater impact on a credit file 
for the six years its reported, a payment arrangement is also considered to be adverse 
information. In addition, an ongoing  payment arrangement would continue to be reported 
until six years after it ended, so at this point the impacts likely to last longer.
I know Mr N says that the default has made  it harder to get a mortgage and I understand his 
frustration. But as the joint loan fell into arrears  and the original payment plan ended without 
a new one being agreed I think RBSs  decision to apply the default was reasonable as it 
reflects how the loan was managed. RBS has agreed to backdate the default to 
October 2015 which means itll drop off Mr N and Miss Bs credit files sooner.  RBS has also 
agreed to remove the late payment markers  for March and September  2013. I know thats 
not part of Mr N and Miss Bs complaint  but Im pleased RBS has reviewed the information it 
reported and decided to amend it. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr N and Miss B but I havent  found  grounds to uphold  this complaint. 
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im satisfied RBS decision  to default the loan and report  
that to the credit reference agencies was fair. RBS paid £38.10  and agreed to amend the 
default date in its final response  dated  19 November 2018. Its also agreed to delete  arrears 
marks for the March  and September  2013 payments. I think  thats fair in all the 
circumstances so Im not telling RBS to take any further action to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Marco Manente
Ref: DRN07602233ombudsman
Ref: DRN0760223