K820x#14complaint
Mr R has a merchant account  with Lloyds Bank plc that allows  him, amongst  other  things, to 
accept card payments  at the shop he runs. He complains  that the bank (operating under its 
Cardnet brand) allowed two payments which were fraudulent and has debited  them  from his 
account.   
background
Mr R runs a small  shop.  It has a card payment facility provided by Cardnet that allows him to 
take card payments. 
Mr R has explained that two men came  into his shop one afternoon when it was quite busy. 
They bought a significant amount of merchandise  and spent  nearly £600 over two card 
payments. Mr R has said that he gave the men the shops  card terminal  to enter  their PIN, 
believing that the card chip had been read. He received an authorisation code  from the bank 
and allowed the transactions to go ahead. The bank has since added  fees to Mr Rs account  
as a result  of these  events.  
However, the bank  later contacted him to say that the payments had been fraudulent  and 
that they had, in fact, been  keyed  manually  that is, the card details had been entered  into 
the card reader, but it hadnt read the card chip and the PIN hadnt been  used.  Because  Mr 
R believed the payments  had been  made in the usual way (using chip and PIN technology),  
he made no further checks on the customers. 
In fact, it seems the customers, rather than entering the PIN when they took the payment 
terminal from Mr R, had processed  the payments themselves as card not present 
transactions. That is, either they swiped the card, so the details were read from the magnetic 
stripe on it, or they entered the details manually  on the card terminal. Ill explain the 
significance of that in my findings. The genuine  cardholder was able to persuade their card 
issuer that they hadnt made  the payments and so received a refund; the card issuer  then 
sought reimbursement from Cardnet, which in turn claimed it from Mr R.
Mr R didnt think that was fair; he also said that hed only been using the card terminal  for a 
short while, and didnt  think  the training hed been  given was adequate. He referred the 
matter to this service, but our adjudicator didnt recommend that the bank  reimburse the 
money hed lost. Mr R asked that an ombudsman review the case, as the final stage  in our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the adjudicator  did, and for similar reasons. 
First of all, Mr R has my sympathy. Its clear that hes fallen  victim to a clever trick and that 
its unlikely hell be able to get his money back from the perpetrators.  Given  the nature of his 
business, Im sure hes not in a position  where  he can easily afford to lose £600. But the 
issue I have to decide is whether he or Cardnet should bear the loss.
I think its unlikely that the genuine  card was used for the payments. It seems  more likely that 
the customers either had the card details or were using a copy  of the card. Because  they set 
out to defraud Mr R, and because he didnt realise  what was happening,  its not possible to 
Ref: DRN00568562say for certain. But it makes no real difference here, because  the payments were  processed 
as card not present transactions. That means that they were processed as if a customer  
had provided the card details (number, expiry  date, CVV number) over the phone  or to make 
an online  purchase. 
Merchants can process  payments in this way when  taking payments face-to-face if, for 
example, theres  a problem with a card terminal or telephone connections. But if they do, the 
risk that the card isnt genuine lies with the merchant. 
In this case, I accept  that Mr R didnt realise  what the customer was doing,  and so wasnt 
aware that the payments  were being processed in this way. He believed they were being 
processed as chip and PIN payments, so didnt, for example, make any identification  or 
other checks. The customer was, in effect, impersonating both the genuine cardholder  and 
Mr R and was therefore able to make  the payment look valid. 
However, Mr R was in a better position  than anyone  else to prevent this happening. Thats 
not meant as a criticism  of him, but he was the person who dealt with the customer  and 
looked after the card terminal. Cardnet was not in a position to do that, however. It would 
have appeared  that Mr R had decided to process  the payment as if the card had not been  
there, but it would have  had no way of knowing what was actually happening in Mr Rs shop 
 that the genuine  cardholder wasnt there  or that the customer, rather  than Mr R, was 
operating the terminal.
Mr R has said that hed had some difficulties with faulty terminals. The terminal wasnt 
however provided  by Cardnet. But in any event, the adjudicator  contacted the terminal 
provider and was satisfied that it was functioning correctly at the relevant time.  
Mr R has also said that he didnt receive proper training before being allowed to use the card 
terminal. He was however  provided  with a detailed manual explaining how to process  
different types  of payment.  I accept that he almost  certainly wasnt  told about  this type of 
scam (it seems  the terminal provider may not have come across it previously), and thats  
unfortunate. But he did know that it was his responsibility to ensure that the terminal  was 
kept secure and wasnt tampered with. The operating instructions also explained that only 
the merchant  (that is, Mr R) should key in transactions and also set out the situations  in 
which a payment could  be entered manually. They didnt apply here  although I accept as I 
say that Mr R didnt realise  what was happening.  
Finally, Mr R says that the transactions  were authorised, which  he took to mean there  was 
no problem with them. But, as the adjudicator explained, that only meant  that there were 
sufficient funds to pay them  and that the card hadnt been reported  lost or stolen. It didnt 
mean that the genuine card had been  used by the genuine cardholder.  
As Ive said,  I have real sympathy for Mr R, who has been the victim of a cruel  and 
sophisticated scam. Its obviously unfair that anyone should have to bear the loss of that, but 
someone  either Cardnet or Mr R  must do so. And, for the reasons Ive explained,  I dont 
believe it would be fair to require the bank to reimburse Mr Rs losses.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank plc to take any further steps to resolve 
Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr R to accept  or reject  my decision before  22 November 2019.
Ref: DRN00568563Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0056856