K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc trading  as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr H bought the policy in 2001 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. He applied  for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  by completing a paper application. 
At the time,  Mr H was employed  as a shipping clerk. He has told us he was not entitled to 
any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means  of repaying his credit card should  he be 
unable to work. Mr H has said he had a number of childhood ailments experienced a 
significant number  of years before the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Hs credit  card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 78p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card account closed in January 2008.
Mr Hs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Hs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Hs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr H about  the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr H and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mr H received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Ref: DRN06147282Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in January 2008. That means  the unfair relationship  
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgement in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgement, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN06147283Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Hs 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Hs complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN06147284Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr H and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr H know  he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Mr H says he applied for his credit card and PPI by completing a postal application form, but 
Halifax says this application was made in branch. Ive seen a screenshot  of Halifaxs 
computer records which says this application  was completed in branch.  Ive also looked  at a 
copy of Mr Hs application form and can see this was electronically completed  which  
indicates a branch sale. So, I think Halifax is likely to be right and Mr H applied for the credit 
card and PPI in branch. 
As explained above. Halifax has provided  a copy of Mr Hs credit  card application form and 
this had a section for selecting PPI. As Ive said above, this printed form has been completed 
electronically  and from our experiences of how these sales  were usually made in branch, 
normally the entries made on the form represent the discussions and answers customers  
gave during the meeting  in which they applied for their credit  card and PPI. On Mr Hs form, 
an X has been placed in the box requesting PPI cover. Hes then signed this form to confirm 
the selections made. 
There is another product immediately next to the PPI that could also have been selected,  but 
this has been  left blank on Mr Hs form  so I think Mr H would have known he could  also 
have left the PPI box blank  if he didnt want it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr H knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says that advice was provided during this sale. Mr H disagrees. Looking at what 
happened when  Halifax sold Mr H the PPI, Im persuaded that it provided  advice. I say this 
because from what Ive seen of other cases where  Halifax sold PPI in branch, with an 
adviser present,  Halifax normally provided advice. So, I think  its more likely  that it did 
provide advice. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr H with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr H. It seems  Mr H cant remember  clearly what  happened and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had some limited information  about Mr 
Hs financial  circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show the adviser took steps 
to establish whether Mr H would have been  caught  by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Halifax  considered  whether Mr H had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Ref: DRN06147285Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that Halifax did all it should  have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr H given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr H had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Hs ability  to continue to meet 
his credit card repayments  would  have been  put under strain  if he was not working 
for an extended period of time. Mr H hasnt told us about  any employee benefits  he 
was entitled to and he didnt have  any savings to fall back  on. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr H. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr H. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Hs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr H has told us about a 
series of childhood ailments he had before the sale. But these were  experienced a 
significant number  of years before the sale, and he hasnt said these caused him any 
ongoing issues. So I dont  think these issues made the policy unsuitable.  There  were 
also no additional restrictions  on cover  for mental health or back  problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, and 10 months for unemployment, it still provided useful cover  given  Mr 
Hs circumstances. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr H sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what Halifax  
was recommending to him and make an informed  decision about whether  to follow  that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr H was given a very broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr H would have been told this  at the very least   during  the 
discussion with the adviser. And I think its unlikely Mr H would have taken out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was. 
Im also satisfied Mr H would  have realised the policy wasnt free and its likely he would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Halifax  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mr H 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary Mr 
Ref: DRN06147286H might  have been given, I think its more  likely  than not that he based  his decision on the 
things he was told, rather than on anything he was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr H, Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr H. Im not persuaded that Halifax gave Mr H all of the information  he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Hs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Hs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr H has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr H? To what extent  did Mr H suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr H. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr H suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr H would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Halifax done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Halifax took the steps it should have done  to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr H, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr H has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Ref: DRN06147287Mr H would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr H says he would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr H had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event  he was unable  
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Hs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr H ought  reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that Halifax  didnt make clear  the on-going cost information.  So while Mr H didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr H thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Mr H knew  about or ought  to have known about or which  he asked about or 
received advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor,  during the 12 months 
immediately before the start date of the policy;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr H 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr H be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do. 
I do accept there is a possibility that the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr H pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr H from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
Ref: DRN06147288should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr H says he had a number of 
medical conditions  some time before the policy was taken out, and the policy  might not have 
provided cover had he been unable to work because of these issues,  I dont think better  
information about this exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. I say this because he 
experienced these  problems  many  years before the sale,  (some while he was a young child)  
and Mr H also hasnt said he suffered any ongoing  issues with these since. So, I dont think  
he would  have envisaged that these  problems would be the main reasons hed need to 
make a claim. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr H would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr H had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his job or 
any similar job but also unable to do any work which in the insurers view he might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into his thinking about  what he would do. 
And I accept  it may have  given him pause for thought  although given Mr Hs 
circumstances, and the limited other means  he had to make his repayments if he wasnt 
working, on balance,  I still think he would have been  interested in taking  out the cover.  
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr H would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting and he didnt have any means of meeting his credit card 
repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness and, he thought,  
redundancy. And in those circumstances I consider it more likely than not that he would have 
taken out the policy  in any event.   
Mr Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr H would not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr H 
Ref: DRN06147289found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr H in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Halifax should pay Mr H compensation, as that would put him in a better position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr H thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr H, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2001 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr H and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr H in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0614728