K820x#14complaint
A, a limited  company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC provided  poor service  and delayed 
opening its bank  account causing financial  loss.
background
The director  of A says he first contacted Lloyds in August 2018  about opening an account. 
He says he was told that the person hed spoken to would deal with this but he heard 
nothing further.  He then went into a branch in October 2018 and was told he would need  to 
apply online or by telephone. The director says he had problems online and was given the 
wrong telephone number.  When  he did get through on 20 October  2018 no one called him 
back. The account was opened  on 7 November 2018 and the director says he spent five 
hours on the phone  dealing  with a number of issues and that he lost a new client. He says 
that his name was used incorrectly on a call and he felt disrespected.
Lloyds issued a final response on this complaint on 12 November 2018 and arranged to pay 
A £100 in compensation  and £60 towards  call costs. It said that if A was still out of pocket or 
there were further costs  it would consider these.
Our investigator did not recommend that Lloyds do anything further. He said that A was not 
incorporated until November 2018.  And so a bank account could not have been operated  for 
it until then. So he didnt  think Lloyds could  be responsible for any financial  loss. He said that 
there was limited evidence about the poor service provided by Lloyds and that as a result the 
compensation offered paid was reasonable. As this was a complaint from A, a separate legal 
entity, we couldnt consider any distress caused  to the director personally.
A did not agree and the director  said he wanted an ombudsman to review  the complaint and 
did not think wed dealt  with things impartially.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute  resolution  and Im going  to be taking into account both 
what A and Lloyds have  said. I also need  to say that Im considering the events that Lloyds 
had looked into up to its final response  about  this complaint. I know that A has raised further  
complaint points including about  the issues with opening and operating currency  accounts. 
But those  would need to be looked  into by Lloyds before we could investigate them.as our 
investigators explained to the director. And I understand  A has raised a number of other 
matters separately with Lloyds.  
The final response  from Lloyds about  this complaint essentially accepts all the complaint 
points up to then.  Although  the branch member of staff the director  says he spoke to in 
August 2018 no longer worked  there  Lloyds  accepted the directors  account of what  he was 
told and of the time hed later spent since on telephone calls.
I think though  that what  our investigators said about  the date of incorporation  of A is 
important. Lloyds couldnt open  an account until A existed. Im not persuaded that the time 
after that date until the account  details were known to A was unreasonable. And I dont see 
that not say having a debit card or PIN for the account affected As ability  to receive  money 
Ref: DRN02424482from a new client. I note that the first credit into the account  other  than of the 
compensation - was made on 14 November 2018. Having said all that, Lloyds agrees that it 
could have provided better customer service and that it shouldnt  have  taken five hours  of 
calls for an account to be opened.
The directors provided information from his personal account from August  and September 
2018 saying that he had to pay currency fees for making payments as he did not have  an 
account for A. Again  A didnt  exist then and Im only looking here at its sterling account. 
Lloyds said it would  consider any other costs but I know that A did not think it needed to 
provide details about this.
Having considered the available  evidence I agree that A received poor customer  service.  
And I say that given  the very consistent account the director has provided about what  
happened. I need to think about compensation to A alone for this and to take into account 
our published  guidelines. And Im not splitting this for each individual  element of what  
happened but thinking about what is reasonable overall. Having done so Im afraid I find that 
whats already been  paid to A is reasonable and so I wont  be asking  Lloyds to do anything  
else
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Lloyd Bank PLC need  do 
no more than it has already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0242448