K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Volkswagen 
Finance, has terminated the hire purchase agreement  under which  a car was supplied  to 
her. 
background
A used  car was supplied to Miss W under a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen  
Finance that she signed in January 2017.  She lost her job in June  2017  and didnt make the 
payment that was due under the agreement in August 2017. She contacted  Volkswagen 
Finance in October 2017 and agreed  a repayment plan. But she didnt make the agreed 
repayments so it sent her a notice of arrears,  a default notice and then terminated the 
agreement in April 2018. 
Miss W complained to Volkswagen Finance in May 2018 that the agreement  had been 
unfairly terminated. But it said that it was unable to locate any evidence  to suggest that it had 
acted incorrectly in order to justify removal of the default from Miss Ws credit  file. She 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that 
Volkswagen Finance had sent arrears  letters and a default notice to Miss W but she didnt 
meet the requirement of the default letter so her agreement  was terminated. She believed 
that by putting  in place  a payment plan it had acted  fairly. And she said that Miss W hadnt 
informed Volkswagen Finance that shed  changed her address which was why she didnt 
receive the letters that were sent to her.
Miss W has asked  for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that her address remained unchanged  and theres  no proof  that she received the 
letters. She says that once she was made  aware  of the arrears she offered  to pay them in 
full but was denied that option. And she says that she received a letter saying that thered 
been a systems fault that affected the issuing of letters.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W signed  the hire purchase agreement in January 2017 and agreed to make monthly 
payments of £335.61  for a car to be supplied  to her. She says that she lost her job in June 
2017 and she didnt make  the payment that was due under the agreement in August 2017.  
She was sent an arrears  letter  and she contacted Volkswagen Finance in October 2017 and 
agreed to make three  additional  payments of £111.87, on top of her normal monthly 
payment, to clear the August arrears. 
She didnt  make the payments  that had been  agreed so she was sent an arrears  letter  and 
then a notice of default. She didnt take the action  set out in the default notice so her 
agreement was terminated in April 2018.
Miss W says that she didnt receive  the arrears  letter  and default notice  and that she 
wouldve taken the action required by the default notice if shed received it. Volkswagen  
Finance has provided  evidence to show that the letter and notice were produced and sent to 
Ref: DRN01276252her using the correct  address that shed provided   and its provided copies of the letter  and 
notice. 
Its account notes show  that Miss W told it in May 2018 that her address was incorrect.  But 
she says that her address hadnt  changed when the letters and notices were sent to her (and 
shed have received them  because it was her parents address). Miss W says that shes 
received a letter about a systems fault that affected  the issuing of letters. But I consider it to 
be more likely than not that the letter and notice were sent to Miss W  even if they werent 
received by her. And by sending the letter  and notice  I consider that Volkswagen Finance 
fulfilled the requirement to give her the appropriate  information. 
Miss W wouldve been aware that she hadnt made the agreed  payments for the car and that 
she was continuing  to use the car. And Ive seen no evidence to show  that she contacted 
Volkswagen Finance about her agreement, her payments or her arrears between  October  
2017 and May 2018 - even though she hadnt  made  any payments for the car and was 
continuing to use it. 
As Volkswagen Finance  hadnt received the required payments, Im not persuaded that it 
acted incorrectly in these  circumstances  when it terminated Miss Ws agreement  and 
recorded the default on her credit file. Miss W says that she then offered to pay the arrears  
but it denied that option.  By then the agreement had been terminated  but Volkswagen 
Finances account  notes  show that it did provide Miss W with a settlement figure. 
I sympathise with Miss W for the loss of her job and the difficulties that shes been caused  as 
a result of that. A lender is required to respond  to a customers financial difficulties positively 
and sympathetically. That doesnt mean that its obliged to take any particular action, as 
whats appropriate in each case will depend  on the customers  individual  circumstances. 
Miss W had contacted Volkswagen Finance about her financial difficulties in October  2017 
and a repayment arrangement was agreed. And Ive seen no evidence  to show that she 
contacted it about her financial  difficulties between October 2017  and May 2018. So I 
consider that the repayment arrangement that was agreed with Miss W shows that it 
responded to her financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Volkswagen  Finance has acted 
incorrectly in its dealings  with Miss W. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me 
to require it to reinstate  the agreement, to remove the default from her credit  file or to take 
any other action in response  to her complaint. 
Volkswagen Finance says that, although  the agreement has been terminated,  Miss W still 
has the car but hasnt made  any payment for it since October 2017 and that the outstanding 
balance on her account is £7,849.96. I suggest that Miss W contacts Volkswagen Finance to 
discuss the options that are now available to her. If she doesnt promptly  do so then I 
consider it to be likely  that Volkswagen Finance will take further action to re-possess the car 
and to seek payment  of the amount that she owes  it.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March  2020.
Ref: DRN01276253Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0127625