K822xcomplaint
Ms A and Mr M complain  that National House-Building Council (NHBC) havent put right 
various issues at their property, after accepting a claim on their building warranty policy  
seven years ago.
Although the complaint has been brought to us by both Ms A and Mr M, all correspondence 
has been with Ms A. So, for ease,  I will mainly refer to Ms A in the body of this decision.
background 
Ms A and Mr M bought a new-build property in August 2013. The property was, and still is, 
covered by a ten-year  NHBC  building warranty policy.
Under section 2, the builder is responsible for putting right any damage  or defects notified 
during the first two years of the policy. If theres  a dispute between  the homeowner  and the 
builder about such  issues, NHBC can, at its discretion, offer its resolution service to try to 
resolve the matter.  NHBC only becomes responsible for issues  notified during the first two 
years if certain conditions are met. The conditions that are relevant to this complaint here, 
are: NHBC operated its resolution  service  and issued a resolution report  recommending 
action by the builder, and the homeowner accepted  the findings,  but the builder hasnt 
complied in the timeframe  set by NHBC.
Under section 3, NHBC is responsible for putting right damage  to the parts  of the property 
that are listed under  this section, or defects to a flue or chimney if there is a present and 
imminent danger, providing the issues are notified during the last eight years of the policy. 
For the parts covered  under section 3, apart  from flues and chimneys,  there needs to be 
damage, not just a defect.
The policy defines  damage as any physical damage caused to the home by a defect. It 
defines a defect as the breach of any mandatory NHBC Technical Requirement, as 
detailed in its published NHBC Standards.
In the first two years of the policy, Ms A and Mr M reported a problem with the damp proof 
membrane and screed on the ground floor. NHBC operated its resolution service,  and 
because the builder didnt comply,  NHBC accepted  responsibility for the claim. NHBC 
started works in October 2014. 
Whilst repairing the original defect, NHBC caused damage to the property. NHBC accepted 
liability, but Ms A and Mr M were unhappy  with the settlement it offered. In August 2016,  an 
ombudsman at this service directed NHBC to pay £80,220 to Ms A and Mr M.
Ms A and Mr M brought a further complaint to this service involving about 30 other issues  at 
their property  issues they thought the builder had caused and NHBC was responsible for 
under section 2 of the policy. In December  2017,  an ombudsman decided  that most of the 
issues werent in our jurisdiction. This was because the issues had been raised within  the 
first two years of the policy (i.e. section  2), and NHBC had either operated  its resolution  
service and not recommended any action, or it hadnt offered its resolution  service. 
Ref: DRN02072022The ombudsman noted two issues had been  settled  (chimneys and roof tiles). He also noted 
two issues (items 2 and 5 in the below list) hadnt  been raised during the first two years,  so a 
section 3 claim would need to be made by Ms A and Mr M if they wanted  these items to be 
considered by NHBC.
The ombudsman decided Ms A and Mr Ms complaints about their bathroom  floor tiles and 
upstairs doors were  in our jurisdiction. In August 2018, the ombudsman directed NHBC to 
settle the tiles as per Ms A and Mr Ms quotes. However, in February 2020, after further  
consideration, he decided the doors  werent in our jurisdiction, in respect of a section 2 
claim, as the issue had been considered under NHBCs  resolution service and no 
recommendations had been made.
In the meantime, Ms A and Mr M also complained that NHBC had caused damage  to the 
upstairs doors whilst  it had possession of the property. However, in May 2019, another  
ombudsman at this service didnt uphold their complaint.
In September  2020, one of our ombudsmen issued a further decision which agreed with the 
December 2017  decision, i.e. she decided  the remaining items raised  during  the first two 
years werent in our jurisdiction.
Ill turn now to the complaint that Im considering here.
This is a relatively complex matter which has involved  a number of claims, which have in 
turn led to a number  of complaints to our service,  made by Ms A and Mr M. My decision 
follows several decisions issued by other  ombudsmen  at this service,  that have already 
addressed and/or decided elements of Ms A and Mr Ms complaint. So, in order to give
Ms A and Mr M a complete answer  to their concerns, Ive referred  to the conclusions  
reached, and explanations given, in the earlier decisions.
 
However, to be clear,  my findings in this decision  will only address the elements that havent 
been the subject of an earlier decision.  Under  our rules, it would only be appropriate for me 
to revisit an earlier  decision if Ms A and Mr M had provided material new evidence  that has 
only become available after the earlier decision was made  evidence  which  I think is likely 
to affect the outcome of the earlier complaint. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the evidence provided  by Ms A, and Im satisfied none of that 
evidence would lead me to come  to a different decision to those previously reached by my 
ombudsman colleagues.  So, to be clear, when I refer to the conclusions  reached, and the 
explanations given in the previous decisions,  Im doing so to provide clarification on the 
elements already decided at that point in time. Im not deciding those elements afresh.
I have set out below the items  that Ms A and Mr M have complained  about,  and are claiming 
for, under this complaint  reference. Many of the arguments Ms A has made about these 21 
items have  already been addressed in the earlier decisions Ive referred to. Throughout my 
decision, I will refer back to the below table to address Ms As comments. Ill explain where 
an item and/or argument has already been dealt with in an earlier decision, and where  that 
isnt the case,  Ill give my decision.
Ref: DRN02072023Item Description Item Description
1 Entrance canopy (porch) 12 Window sills, beads, frame seals
2 Noise (between rooms  and floors) 13 Water ingress (garage door)
3 Mortar pointing 14 Shower door and bathroom seals
4 Garage concrete floor 15 French door
5 Plasterboard (garage/utility room) 16 Internal window frames
6 Noise (roof void) 17 Wardrobes
7 Downpipe 18 Radiators (hallway,  kitchen/diner)
8 Blockwork 19 Perpend vents
9 Upper windows  and render 20 Bellcast bead
10 External window and door issues 21 Insulation (roof void)
11 Expansion beads
Ill set out the arguments Ms A has made  about  these 21 items in the section below, headed 
my findings.  But to summarise, Ms A would  like:
-NHBC to pay for an independent surveyor to estimate the cost of rectifying the 21 
outstanding issues,  and for it to pay that sum to her and Mr M; and
-compensation for the distress  and inconvenience thats been caused  by the ongoing 
situation, and the impact  on her health.
When responding to the complaint, NHBC said it wasnt responsible  for the remaining items 
raised during  the first two years of the policy, and it explained a section 3 claim wouldnt 
succeed for items 2 and 5.
The complaint has already  been  considered by one of our investigators.  To summarise, she 
said that NHBC only needed to cover  the cost of repairing some damage it had caused to 
items 1 and 7, by attaching fencing to the property during its works. She also said NHBC 
should compensate  Ms A and Mr M £200,  for not having addressed  this issue.
NHBC accepted our investigators findings.  But Ms A disagreed, so the complaint has been  
passed to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Ms A has made multiple submissions to our service. However, its not our role to comment 
on every  point made. Its for me to determine  the crux of a complaint, and to address the 
issues I consider relevant  to its outcome. Ive carefully considered Ms As submissions. 
Where I havent directly commented on points, this isnt intended as a discourtesy; but 
rather, this reflects  the informal nature of our service, its remit, and my role in it.
Ref: DRN02072024Its important I make  clear that I dont doubt  the distress suffered  by Ms A and Mr M over the 
last eight years. A new home shouldnt come with so many,  and costly,  issues. I understand 
why Ms A feels so strongly. However,  Im only able to consider NHBCs responsibility  for the 
issues that are within our jurisdiction, that havent  previously been the subject of a final 
decision issued by other ombudsmen at our service. 
I will set out my findings under the following ten headings: 2016  final decision; arguments 
relating to section  2 (years 0-2); NHBC prejudiced Ms A and Mr M; arguments  relating to 
section 3 (years  3-10); works previously instructed; damage caused  by NHBC (items 1 
and 7); damage/issues caused  by NHBC (other items); expert opinion; compensation; 
and withheld information.
2016 final decision
Ms A says, in August  2016, the ombudsman  said if any further damage is identified  in the 
remainder of the warranty period, she would expect NHBC to accept liability for putting it 
right. Ms A says NHBC has ignored  this direction. 
However, the ombudsman was referring to further damage having been  caused by NHBCs 
contractors. My ombudsman colleague  didnt decide NHBC would be liable for all damage 
and defects going forward, but rather, she was simply noting that if NHBC caused damage 
whilst undertaking  work  at the property, it would  be liable  for putting such damage right.
I will go on to consider  whether NHBC caused  further damage,  in respect of the 21 items,  
under later sub-headings.
arguments relating  to section 2 (years 0-2)
19 of the 21 items were  raised during the first two years of the policy.  Therefore, they are 
section 2 claims. The exceptions are items  2 and 5.
Ive reviewed the list of items on the previous cases,  and Im satisfied two other  ombudsmen  
have already decided that 18 of the 19 items  arent in our jurisdiction, in respect of NHBCs 
liability under  section 2. The exception is item 4.
Therefore, before I could conclude that NHBC was responsible for these 18 items, I would 
need to be persuaded NHBC (rather than the builder) had caused the issues.  Ill go on to 
consider this point,  and items 2, 5, and 4, under other sub-headings.
Ms A says that when NHBC took possession of the property for nine months to complete the 
work for the accepted section 2 claim, it took over liability from the builder  and the insurance 
came into being. However, this argument  has already been considered by my ombudsman  
colleague in December 2017.  As he explained, simply because NHBC accepted liability  for 
some issues  doesnt make it liable for all defects reported in the first two years. But rather, 
the insurance part of section 2 only comes into effect for each issue raised during the first 
two years,  if certain requirements are met for each issue. The relevant  requirements here 
are, NHBCs resolution service recommended the builder to take action for the issue in 
question, and it didnt do so. These requirements werent met for 18 items, so my 
ombudsman colleagues  decided they werent in our jurisdiction.
Ref: DRN02072025Ms A says that any resolution outcome or decision not to offer resolution after NHBC had 
carried out work isnt relevant, on the basis the insurance had already been activated. But, 
as explained above, this isnt correct. The insurance  part of section 2 only came into effect 
for the issues that NHBCs resolution  service  had recommended action on and where the 
builder hadnt  complied.  Later resolution outcomes, or the decision not to offer resolution, 
were entirely relevant  to NHBCs liability for, and our jurisdiction over, any further issues  
notified during  the first two years.
Ms A disputes many of the resolution reports.  She says where  NHBC has reported it doesnt 
require action by the builder for certain  items,  this is wrong, or the information is out of date. 
However, Ive not seen  anything that persuades me the reports  are inaccurate.  
Ms A says NHBC  couldnt choose to operate its resolution service because  it had taken  over 
the property and already told the builder  that NHBC was now liable. However, this argument  
relates to NHBC not offering its resolution service, and again,  its already been decided by 
two other  ombudsmen that this service doesnt have jurisdiction over such  matters. 
NHBC prejudiced Ms A and Mr M
Ms A says NHBC  has denied  her all future  use of section 2, because it freed the builder from 
all liabilities under the policy  and confirmed NHBC would be liable. Ms A says after NHBCs 
works, she should have  been able to continue to use the section 2 cover,  and it isnt fair or 
reasonable this cover  is now denied. 
Ive not seen anything that persuades me NHBC freed the builder from its liabilities  in terms 
of the 21 items in dispute. NHBC accepted liability for the damp proof membrane and screed 
on the ground floor, but as already explained, that doesnt mean NHBC accepted  liability for 
all future issues  identified  during the first two years.
Furthermore, section 2 is clear that the resolution service is provided  at NHBCs discretion. It 
also explains  that if an award is made against  the builder by a court  or following arbitration, 
for issues raised during the first two years, and the builder doesnt  settle  the amount, Ms A 
could claim for the amount owed under  section  2. Therefore, I dont agree Ms A has been 
denied all future use of section 2, but rather, so far, NHBC  has applied the terms as it is 
entitled to do so. If a court  or arbitrator  makes  an award, Ms A might be able to make a 
further section  2 claim.
Ms A says NHBC  told all the parties  involved that it would rectify any remaining issues.  She 
says the builder knew it could no longer be blamed after NHBC had taken responsibility, so 
its unreasonable NHBC has reneged, and for it to expect her to return to the builder. Ms A 
says she has no reasonable prospect of placing responsibility on the builder as NHBC has 
already excused  the builder of such liability; and third-party advice confirmed she wouldnt 
have any chance  of success without taking both the builder and NHBC to court, as they 
would try to blame  each  other.
I cant comment on what success Ms A might have should she pursue the builder outside of 
NHBCs policy. However, I havent  seen anything that persuades me shes been prevented 
from taking such action.  The terms are clear that if the resolution service  operates  and the 
homeowner doesnt  accept the outcome, or if it doesnt operate,  the homeowner has the 
right to pursue  the builder outside of NHBCs policy. This has always  been an option  for 
Ms A.
Ref: DRN02072026I accept the works NHBC undertook to the ground  floor were relatively extensive. But Im not 
persuaded its works prevented Ms A from pursuing the builder in respect of the 21 items in 
question, given these werent issues NHBC had become liable  for under section 2, or (with 
the exception  of some damage Ill go on to address) issues NHBC had caused.
Although I accept that Ms A believed NHBC would rectify the remaining issues, I havent 
seen anything that supports NHBC made  such a commitment. 
Ms A points towards a handwritten comment on a list of issues,  which  she received after she 
made a Subject Access Request to NHBC:  We have done extensive  work to the ground 
floor screed so any damaged items highlighted will not be able to be referred to B [the 
builder]. Too many contractors and too much work has been  done by others to prove 
responsibility for any damage now.
However, in my view,  its clear from the document that the handwritten comment only relates 
to certain issues, and not to any of the 21 items.  The damage  NHBC caused was also cash  
settled, and the document pre-dates that settlement. So, Im not persuaded the handwritten  
comment has any relevance to this complaint.
Ms A also points towards  a phone note obtained  from NHBC, which  sets out a conversation  
between her and NHBC in February  2015. Among other things,  it says:  Explained that the 
responsibility for the property lies with us and we will need to deal with any eventualities 
Explained that we will be expected to hand  back a property in the same condition  it was in 
previously with the remedial works all completed.
However, the note also says: Advised there  is not a list in the office of what eventualities  
would or would not be covered and we would need to look at each on its own merits. The 
note also suggests  the conversation was about  damage thats usually  covered  by home 
insurance, if such damage was to occur whilst NHBC has possession of the property. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded the note shows NHBC had taken  liability  for all issues.  
In any event, even  if NHBC did commit to rectifying certain or all issues,  and it later changed 
its position, Im not persuaded this would have prevented Ms A from pursuing the builder 
outside of NHBCs policy.
I accept NHBC  didnt  hand back the property in the same  condition it was in before its works 
to the ground  floor.  However, in addition to completing and/or covering the remedial works 
NHBC became liable for under  the section 2 claim,  apart from some damage  Ill go on to 
address, it has settled the damage  it caused.
arguments relating  to section 3 (years 3-10)
In December 2017, my ombudsman  colleague  decided that items 2 and 5 hadnt  been raised 
during the first two years, and if Ms A wanted  these items to be considered  she would need 
to make a section 3 claim to NHBC. 
NHBC has told Ms A that a section 3 claim wouldnt be successful for items 2 and 5 because 
no damage is being caused.  However, Im not considering whether a section  3 claim should 
be successful for these items, as Ms A has made it clear  that shes  never  made a section  3 
claim and has no intention  of doing so.
Ref: DRN02072027Ms A believes items 2 and 5 should be covered for much of the same  arguments in the 
above two sub-headings,  and it follows I dont agree for the reasons already given.
Im mindful NHBC had possession of the property for nine months of the first two years,  and 
previous arguments  have  been made about  its possession preventing  Ms A from being  able 
to identify and raise issues within the first two years for a section 2 claim. However,  both my 
ombudsman colleagues  answered this point  within their August 2016 and December 2017 
decisions (and/or their provisional decisions), and neither were persuaded Ms A had been 
prevented from raising issues. As such,  its not necessary for me to comment  on this 
argument further.
works previously instructed
Ms A says NHBC  previously instructed  works to the builder for items 1, 4, 12, 19, 20, and 21. 
She says because these  works werent  completed,  NHBC is liable.
For items  1, 19, and 20, Ms A has pointed towards  correspondence between her and NHBC 
before completion.  Section 1 of the policy provides some cover before completion. However, 
as explained by my ombudsman  colleague  in September  2020,  this service hasnt seen a 
section 1 claim has been made before,  so if Ms A thinks NHBC ought to pay for repairs 
under this section,  she should notify NHBC so it can consider the matter.
For item 12, Ms A says NHBC instructed  work to the builder  following  a section 2 claim, but 
the builders work wasnt effective. However, this issue has already been  considered  by my 
ombudsman colleague  in December 2017. He decided  this item wasnt  in our jurisdiction 
because NHBCs resolution  service had concluded  no further work was required  by the 
builder.
For item 21, Ms A points  towards a letter from NHBC  which confirms it had asked the builder 
to try to resolve this issue  with Ms A. However, as explained by my ombudsman colleague in 
September 2020, advising the builder of a reported  issue in the first instance, doesnt mean 
NHBC had required the builder to take action under its resolution service. Rather, if NHBC 
goes on to operate its resolution service for an item not resolved by the builder, the 
resolution report will make clear  whether  NHBC requires the builder to take action.
For item 4, Ms A says NHBC was meant  to carry out works to the concrete, screed, and 
damp-proof membrane  in all ground floor areas. However, Ms A says the works werent 
done in the integral garage. 
My ombudsman colleague didnt specifically mention item 4 in September  2020,  when  she 
decided the remaining items raised during the first two years werent within our jurisdiction. 
Whilst I note that, in December 2017, another ombudsman colleague decided a similarly  
described issue with the garage floor (concrete soft and crumbling)  wasnt  within  our 
jurisdiction, overall, its unclear whether  we have previously considered  item 4. 
So, given that works  instructed to the builder by NHBCs resolution service would generally 
be in our jurisdiction if not undertaken, Ive considered whether I can reasonably decide 
NHBC needs to do something  more  for item 4.
Ref: DRN02072028A letter sent to Ms A before NHBCs works started  explained  that it intended to complete the 
works across the entire ground floor area. NHBCs scope also notes  works  are to take place 
throughout the ground floor, apart from the cloakroom due to it being tiled.  However, on the 
other hand, the last resolution  report relevant to this item specifically mentions damage to 
floors in other rooms,  but not the garage; and Im mindful that reference to the ground floor 
may have  been  referring to the living areas  as opposed to the garage.  Overall, its unclear  
whether the garage floor was to be included in the ground floor works. 
But importantly, in my view, I havent seen Ms A raised the issue  of works  not being  done to 
the garage floor at the time, and I have seen  the complaint my ombudsman colleague 
decided in August  2016  included a quote for house  and garage sub floor repairs.
I accept the sub-floor repairs might have  been  different to item 4. However, the point I make 
here is, in August 2016, my ombudsman colleague  was considering  the issues  and damage 
evident following  NHBCs ground floor works. So, if as Ms A says, not all the agreed ground 
floor works had been done, Im persuaded Ms A ought reasonably to have raised the matter  
during the 2016 complaint. On balance, Im not persuaded I can reasonably direct NHBC to 
do something more now.
damage caused by NHBC (items 1 and 7)
Our investigator accepted NHBC had caused further damage to items  1 and 7 by attaching  
fencing to these parts of the property. She said Ms A should  provide NHBC with three 
quotes for the repairs, and NHBC should pay the average. 
NHBC agreed with our investigators conclusions. Ive also seen photos  showing fencing 
was attached to the woodwork of the porch  canopy and a downpipe; and photos which 
suggest the woodwork  was scratched,  and the downpipes fixings had come loose. So, 
I accept what Ms A says about the damage. 
Ms A has reiterated she would like an independent  surveyor to be paid for, to estimate costs, 
rather than providing  quotes. In my opinion, three quotes for the damage  in question and the 
likely repair costs, is a little excessive.  Its also my view that it would be disproportionate  to 
direct NHBC to pay for a surveyor for these issues. 
Therefore, Ms A will need to submit a quote  for the repairs. If she isnt prepared to submit  a 
quote, it will be for NHBC to estimate the repair costs so it can issue  the settlement.  If Ms A 
provides a quote, but NHBC doesnt  accept it fairly reflects the works necessary as a result 
of the fencing,  then NHBC will need  to undertake the repairs itself.  
To be clear, Ive decided  here that NHBC is liable for putting  right the damage caused by the 
fencing. NHBCs liability is limited  to that damage, i.e. its not liable for other damage to the 
porch or downpipes  that was reported as a section  2 claim. If NHBC and Ms A cant  agree 
on what repairs are needed  for the damage caused by the fencing, or the repair costs, or 
who does the repairs, then a further  complaint can be made  to determine that matter.
Our investigator also recommended that NHBC  compensate Ms A and Mr M £200 for not 
addressing the fencing damage. NHBC accepted our investigators conclusions.  Ms A is 
unhappy with the amount awarded. However, the £200 was to acknowledge the fencing  
issue, and nothing else she complains  about. Im satisfied the award is fair.
Ref: DRN02072029damage/issues caused by NHBC (other items)
NHBC didnt survey the property before starting  its works, and Ms A points towards  NHBCs 
guidance which recommends its contractors record and agree the condition of the property 
with the homeowner prior to commencing works.  She says she has no idea what  damage  
NHBC was causing to the property due to the substantial works being undertaken, but its 
not fair or reasonable she was presented with damage that didnt exist before NHBC took 
over the property. However,  although  I understand the point Ms A makes,  apart  from the 
fencing related  damage for items  1 and 7, Ive not found any links between the 21 items 
being claimed and the work  NHBC undertook at the property. So, on balance,  Im more 
persuaded the issues were caused by the builder, than NHBC.
Ms A has noted that an independent  surveyor visited  the property before NHBC started its 
works, and she points towards the surveyors report after the works which states: we can 
confirm that, in our opinion, the property is now in a substandard condition. However, Im 
not persuaded the surveyors general observation  shows NHBC caused  the 21 issues in 
question. Its already  been accepted NHBC left the property  in a poor condition, but this 
damage was settled by my ombudsman colleagues decision in August 2016.  For me to 
reasonably decide that NHBC is also responsible for the further  21 items now claimed,  
I would need to find a persuasive  link between  each item and NHBCs works. Im not 
persuaded the evidence  provided establishes such a link.
For item 2, Ms A points towards an October  2015  letter from the company that was rectifying 
the plasterboard damaged by NHBC,  which states: It was also discovered that movement  
had been caused between the joints of the plasterboard. However,  even if I was to accept 
the plasterboard issues were causing  noise between rooms and floors, the plasterboard  
remedial work was settled  by my ombudsman colleagues decision in August 2016.
For item 12, Ms A says NHBC has admitted  it had caused damage. However, Ive not seen 
anything to support  what she says.  Photos  alone  dont lead me to conclude NHBC caused  
the damage, rather than it being damage caused  by the builder.  Ms A also points towards 
information from the manufacturer which explains heating should  be on in cold conditions, 
and shes highlighted  the property was without  any heating whilst NHBC had possession.  
However, the manufacturers  information relates  to condensation,  and I havent  seen any 
links between this information and the issues raised for item 12.
For item 18, Ms A says NHBC removed all the radiators as it had broken the heating system  
whilst the property was in its possession. Shes highlighted that the correct size of radiators 
in the lower hallway and kitchen/diner havent been  fitted. She says NHBC was aware  of 
this, but it still installed  two radiators which are smaller  than the specification requires. 
However, the resolution reports made  no recommendations in respect  of the radiators,  i.e. 
they werent being changed as part of a section 2 claim. So, if NHBC installed the original 
radiators after its works,  or replaced them with radiators of the same specification  due to 
damage it caused, Im not persuaded that I can reasonably decide NHBC did something 
wrong. I havent seen  anything  that suggests NHBC installed smaller radiators after its 
works, than were originally fitted. 
In any event, Ive seen three replacement radiators in the lounge/dining/kitchen formed part 
of the plumbing  quotes that my ombudsman colleague accepted, and included, in her award 
in August 2016. So, Im not persuaded I could reasonably revisit the radiators in that area 
now.
Ref: DRN020720210expert opinion
After NHBCs  works, it paid for a snagging survey, and a significant number of issues were 
reported. Ms A has also referred matters to Building Standards, which  has confirmed many  
of the issues need  to be rectified. Ms A says NHBC has ignored  this expert opinion, and 
NHBC has a duty to ensure building regulations are met.
Its not disputed  there  are issues  at the property  that need  to be rectified.  However, NHBC 
only becomes responsible  for putting  issues right (including non-compliance with building  
regulations) if it caused them,  or if they form part of an accepted  claim. As already noted, 
simply because NHBC  accepted the section 2 claim for the damp-proof membrane and 
screed, doesnt mean it was taking responsibility for all other issues; and apart  from the 
damage caused by the fencing, I havent found  NHBC  caused  any of the issues  now 
claimed. 
compensation
As explained at the start of my findings,  I dont doubt the distress that Ms A and Mr M have 
suffered. However, my ombudsman colleague has previously considered the distress they 
suffered due to the events leading up to her August 2016 decision; and Im only upholding 
the further issue caused by NHBCs fencing, for which Im satisfied £200  compensation is 
fair.
I acknowledge Ms A is also unhappy about  some comments a member of NHBCs staff had 
made, which she discovered following a Subject Access Request. However, NHBC has 
apologised and confirmed  the individual will no longer be involved in matters  relating to 
Ms A. Im satisfied  thats a fair outcome for this issue.
withheld information
Ms A is concerned that NHBC  has withheld information from this service.  Ms A has provided  
two redacted emails  that this service  hadnt received from NHBC in its submissions for this 
case, which shes since acquired from NHBC.  Ms A has also provided a recent email from 
NHBC, in which  it confirmed it had withheld some  third-party correspondence from this 
service, so to not prejudice the outcome of this case.
Ms A has asked this service to obtain  non-redacted copies of the emails, and the withheld 
correspondence. However, there isnt anything about the redacted  emails that leads me to 
believe they would have any relevance  to the issues Ive decided  in this case. NHBC has 
also explained to our investigator that the withheld  correspondence relates to a decision  
from another dispute resolution service, about  a complaint Ms A made about the builder. 
Ms A herself says the decision is confidential  and cant be shared. 
Im of the view that I can reach a fair and reasonable outcome on this complaint against  
NHBC, without the withheld information Ms A has referred to.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms A and Mr M, but for the reasons set out above, I only uphold this 
complaint in part. My final decision  is National House-Building Council should:
Ref: DRN020720211-accept liability for the damage caused by the fencing  if the parties cant  agree on 
what repairs are needed, or the repair costs, or who does the repairs,  a further 
complaint can be made  to determine  that matter; and
-pay Ms A and Mr M £200 compensation
I make  no other awards.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2021.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0207202