K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Gain Credit  LLC,  trading as Drafty, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
This was not a loan. Drafty offered  a credit facility which  commenced  with a limit being  
determined and then the customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she requires. 
The credit was unsecured  and had no fixed duration. 
In late September  2016 Mr E applied to Drafty  for a loan of £3,000 and was approved for 
this credit facility with a £500 limit. Mr E had declared that his monthly income  for his full time 
employment was £2,000  and his monthly  expenditure was £1,050.  Drafty says that it carried  
out credit  checks.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some  assumptions to 
illustrate the likely  cost to Mr E. On the assumption  that Mr E drew down the full £500  on the 
first day and then repaid  it (plus interest and charges) over 12 months in equal instalments 
then the total amount payable would have been just under  £668.  This would have equated  to 
about £56 a month (Clause 5 in the agreement).  
The arrangement did include  a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced  
ten days before Mr Es salary payment, and it gave the minimum payment required for that 
cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations which are in the agreement  at clause 6 
which I have not set out here. 
A Continuous Payment  Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near Mr Es 
monthly salary date. Other ways of payment  were  made available.
Mr Es credit  limit appears to have been  increased around March  2018 to £620 and using the 
information I have  from Drafty, there is an outstanding balance on it. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and he thought  that the original  credit  limit 
of £500 was an appropriate  amount and likely affordable. But he went on to say: In line with 
the relevant guidance at the time I also think Drafty shouldve  contacted  [Mr E] to determine  
what his financial position was before the withdrawal on 30 June 2017. From information  
[Mr E] has submitted to this service I note when  this withdrawal was made, he had short-
term loans outstanding with different lenders of around £1,550. So, it seems  he was having 
issues managing  his money and was facing some  wider financial issues.
So, as a responsible lender I think Drafty shouldve stopped providing further funds on this
facility from 30 June  2017, as I dont think the credit facility was suitable or sustainable
Mr E responded to say he had nothing to add before it was passed to me. Drafty responded 
in detail and I have summarised or quoted some of its points here:
even where only minimum monthly payments  are made,  the customer is legally  allowed  
to access the full credit line that has been granted;
Drafty thought that Mr E was using the account well;
Ref: DRN06259402monthly credit reports are obtained and Drafty saw no increase in active  short-term loans;
It said given the fact that the interest rates for Drafty is much lower  than that for a 
typical short-term  loan,  borrowing  from short term lenders  to pay off Drafty is less likely.
we  see that he had updated his income and expenses with us on 4th June 2017  
shortly before  the withdrawal on 30th June 2017. These  expense  and income  updates 
were in line with our then existing records and we had found  the affordability  
reassessment reassuring.
It did not see any signs of financial distress and so it considers that this product was 
both sustainable  and affordable.
Mr E never contacted it to say he needed  assistance. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have considered  the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the credit  was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should  take 
proportionate steps to understand whether  the consumer will be able to repay what  they are 
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely  impacting  on their financial situation.  
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things  a lender  could  consider  before  agreeing to lend. The key element 
was that any checks  needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things, 
including how much was being lent and when  the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
I have seen a copy of Mr Es personal credit file dated May 2018 which would cover the 
period relevant for this complaint. I have  seen copies of his bank statements for this period. 
I need to explain  to Mr E that upon first approaching Drafty in September 2016 it would not 
be expected, and would not be proportionate,  for Drafty to carry out a full and 
comprehensive financial review. Mr E was a new customer. And bearing in mind  the credit  
limit granted and the monthly  payments required to repay the facility within  a reasonable 
period, Drafty was entitled to rely on the information given to it which suggested that Mr E 
had enough disposable income to service a credit facility with a limit of £500. 
Having looked  at all that Mr E has given me and Draftys information and submissions then 
I think that the initial credit facility  approval  was carried  out after checks  I would have 
considered proportionate.  And the limit approved was likely to have  appeared serviceable  
and able to be repaid  within a reasonable time.
Ref: DRN06259403After the initial approval of the credit limit at the start of the account  facility, Drafty did have to 
monitor Mr Es account and it has explained to us how it did that but very briefly.  I refer to the 
Financial Conduct  Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) chapter 6 which 
addresses the expected Business Practices in relation to the monitoring of an account. One 
indication of a risk of a customer being  in financial difficulties is where it seems that the 
customer is borrowing to repay borrowing.
I can see from the Drafty records and the Statements of the account  for Mr E that until 
June 2017 (so that would have been about  nine months of the credit facility  being used) 
Mr E paid the minimum repayment  amounts, and as soon as any margin  had built up then he 
drew down more. So, his balance was nearly always above £500. 
Then Mr E cleared the account in mid-June 2017 and immediately drew down the full 
amount of £500  on 30 June 2017. I think that after several months it would have been 
apparent to Drafty that Mr E was not making  any inroads into the debt as he was almost  
always repaying the minimum amount and then drawing down to the maximum available  to 
him. This gives the appearance  that Mr E was borrowing to cover the hole that making  these 
payments was leaving in his finances.  
And as I have seen  Mr Es personal credit  file and his bank statements, I can see that 
around June 2017  he had a large amount of debt with several  short-term  lenders. I do not 
agree with Draftys assumption that people in Mr Es situation do not use other credit to 
repay Drafty credit. It seems  to me that this was what Mr E was doing.  
Draftys point that the line of credit needs to be made available to Mr E, is answered in its 
own agreement  Clause  3  which gives situations  when it can prevent or limit the use of 
the account. One situation is in Clause 3 (b) which says:  we reasonably consider there  is a 
risk you will not be able to repay  us and/or  you may be in financial difficulty or we otherwise  
think it is appropriate to do so as responsible lenders;
Constantly repaying the minimum amount  only, does not really  demonstrate  that Mr E was coping  
with the account.  From  the draw  down on 30 June 2017 I think  that was the time when additional 
checks ought to have been  made. I think that by continuing to offer the credit facility,  Mr E was 
exposed to additional interest  charges. I think that Drafty should put things right as set out below.
If Drafty has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back if possible and then take the 
following steps. If not, then Drafty should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below:
calculate the amount of all interest  and charges Mr E paid from any drawdowns from 
30 June 2017;
write off any unpaid interest charged from that same date;
rework the sums paid such that from 30 June 2017 any amounts paid to the account are 
applied to the reduction of the principal;
arrange for any outstanding balance to be paid off by agreeing a mutually agreeable and 
affordable repayment plan;  
Ref: DRN06259404once the debt has been  repaid  then amend the credit file to remove  any adverse 
payment information from 1 July 2017 onwards. 
If there is a surplus due to Mr E, then this needs  to be paid to him with the added 8% annual  
simple interest*. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr E 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint in part and Gain  Credit LLC, trading as 
Drafty, should do as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0625940