K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about the delays caused by Tilney Financial Planning Limited (Tilney) in 
setting up a new General  Investment Account (GIA), which prevented him and his employer 
making pension  contributions  to the plan.  He says the delays meant the deadline  his 
employer had set to pay its contributions wasnt met  and so he lost them.  Hes also 
complained that there were errors made  when  changing his address on the account. 
background
In 2017 Tilney recommended that Mr B transferred his existing  personal  pension plans into 
his self-invested personal pension  (SIPP)  which was managed by Tilney  on a discretionary 
basis. Hed previously transferred some other pensions into the SIPP.  
At the same time Mr B, who worked  abroad, was also advised to invest the payments his 
employer said it would  pay him in lieu of a pension  into a GIA invested under the same 
portfolio. This was because he didnt have relevant UK earnings so wasnt eligible to pay into 
a UK based  pension plan.  Mr B was issued  with the relevant  application form to set up the 
GIA in December 2017. 
However, after the forms were returned,  Tilney identified that because of Mr Bs situation it 
would have to open an overseas account  which required different application forms. These  
forms were issued, and the account was opened  on 5 April 2018.  Following  the opening of 
the account Mr B made personal  contributions,  to the value of around 14,150 United  States 
Dollars (USD), to the account on 11 and 14 May 2018. But there was a problem with the 
account accepting  USD,  so the money  was to be returned to Mr B. Because of further delays 
with the administrator the funds werent  returned until 4 June 2018.
Mr Bs employer  had promised to pay its contributions to the plan  but only if the transaction  
completed by the end of May 2018. As Mr B hadnt  asked it to make  the contribution  until he 
resolved the issue  with his personal  contributions the deadline  passed,  and the contributions 
were lost.  
During this time Mrs B had made Tilney aware  of her and her husbands  change  of address, 
but the request wasnt actioned, and Tilney continued to correspond with Mr and Mrs B at 
their previous address until October  2018.
Mr B complained about these matters. He said that, because the account was delayed  in 
being set up, the pension contributions his employer had agreed  to make couldnt be paid in 
time (by May 2018)  and had now been lost. 
Tilney upheld some parts  of Mr Bs complaint. It said:
It had made the change of address process more complicated than it should  have 
been and ought  to have  affected the change at the time the information was 
provided.
It should have  realised that as Mr B was working abroad  and that it knew  about his 
employer, this would have an impact on setting up a standard  GIA. 
Ref: DRN09071842But Tilney thought the reason  that the pension  contributions couldnt be made  was 
because of problems  between Mr Bs account and the receiving bank account. It 
didnt think these  problems were caused by Tilney  and didnt accept responsibility for 
the loss of the contributions not being made in time.
It offered  Mr B £250 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its administrative 
errors. 
Mr B didnt agree and said hed found  out that the only way a transfer from his bank account 
to the plans account could be made  was as an international transfer.  He said Tilney  had 
omitted to provide  these international details, so the transfer could never  have completed 
before the deadline. 
But Tilney  felt the details it provided were correct and that Mr Bs bank account needed to be 
an international one, so it didnt think it was responsible for the lost payments. Mr B 
remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and thought  the reason the contributions 
couldnt be made was because  of the problems Mr B had paying them into the correct 
account. He thought that was Mr Bs responsibility  and didnt think Tilney had caused those 
problem  and therefore he didnt think it should  refund the contributions.  He acknowledged  
Tilneys errors around the change of address and issuing of incorrect  forms and said its offer 
of £250 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
But M B didnt agree. He said it only became clear how the account needed to be set up 
when Tilney visited a branch of the bank  in question. He said it wasnt  possible, in the limited 
time available, to have  found out this information   especially as he was abroad.  He thought 
that if Tilney had set up the account earlier the matter could have been resolved  in plenty of 
time. So, as no resolution could be found  the complaints been passed  to me for a review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I agree with the 
adjudicator and for largely the same reasons. I can see Mr B feels strongly about this matter  
and I have some sympathy for his position,  having lost the employer contributions  he was 
expecting into his account. I know this outcome will disappoint Mr B - so Ill explain my 
reasons.
Tilney has already addressed Mr Bs complaint about the delays in repaying his contributions 
after theyd been  paid into the incorrect bank account.  I understand Mr B has accepted  
redress for that matter.  
So, what  Im left to consider is the impact  of the delays in setting up the new GIA account 
which Mr B says caused him to miss the deadline for his employer contributions, and the 
errors in changing  Mr and Mr Bs address.  
The reasons  behind the loss of the employer  contributions
Tilneys suitability report from 14 November  2017  set out its recommendation to Mr B. Apart  
from the pension  transfer advice it also recommended that you invest  the monthly amounts 
payable to you by your employer in lieu of pension contributions (together with the back 
dated payments  which are due to you) into a Tilney GIA , and invest  the monies under the 
Tilney PIMS.
Ref: DRN09071843The form required to carry out this recommendation was sent to Mr B on 5 December 2017 
and returned sometime after 25 January  2018. But it wasnt the correct form for Mr Bs 
situation (he worked  overseas), so a new form was sent out in March with the account being  
opened on 5 April 2018. So, theres  no dispute here that Tilney made an error with the form 
and did cause a delay in opening  the correct, overseas, GIA.
So, Ive carefully  considered whether  the delay in setting up the account  properly was the 
cause of Mr Bs loss here. But I dont think it would be fair to say that Tilney was responsible  
for Mr Bs loss because  of that administrative delay. After all Mr B initially received the 
document shortly  after 5 December 2017 but didnt return it until 25 January 2018 and when 
the account was set up on 4 April a payment wasnt attempted  until 11 May 2018. So, it 
would be equally reasonable to suggest those delays might have meant Mr B could  have 
resolved the issue  with the payments being made incorrectly  if hed had that extra  time.  
I think deciding what went wrong  with the transfer  of funds is key to why Mr B suffered a 
financial loss here. So, Ive carefully looked at the events that occurred after the account was 
correctly set up.  When the account was set up Tilney  sent Mr B an email which  confirmed 
that if he wanted to make  pound sterling  (GBP) contributions himself, he should transfer the 
funds to a GBP designated account  and his employer  should make UDS contributions into 
another USD  designated  account. Details of both accounts were set out and it was clearly 
marked which account was which. So, I think Tilney made it quite clear  how the contributions  
 depending on who was making them  should be transferred. 
But Mr B didnt attempt  to make contributions until 11 May 2018 when he made a transfer in 
USD to an account  that couldnt  accept  USD.  Its unclear  why Mr B did this, but I havent  
seen any evidence to show  that this was due to anything Tilney did or told him. 
Mr B says that because  when he tried to pay money  into one of the accounts the money 
became temporarily  lost, he didnt  want to take the chance of his employer  doing  the same  
thing. He said hed lost faith in the system by then and his employer  decided  to let Mr B sort 
the situation out before making the contribution. Unfortunately,  he couldnt do that in time. 
But theres no evidence  to say that Tilney told Mr B his employer shouldnt try to make its 
contribution  which might still have  been received by the deadline if the correct account had 
been used.
I accept that Mr B experienced a number of difficulties in trying  to resolve this situation. Not 
least because he was overseas  in a country  with quite difficult communications,  that made  
it difficult for him to discuss the matter with his own bank. And there  has been a suggestion  
that the problem might  have been caused because Mr Bs bank needed the contribution  to 
be made using an international transfer.  But the fact remains that the reason the transfer 
didnt complete in time was because Mr Bs own contribution was made  into the wrong  
account (USD into GBP) and by the time this was resolved the deadline  by which  the 
employer said it wanted to make contributions had passed.
In order to uphold  this part of the complaint  I have to be sure that Tilney was responsible for 
Mr Bs financial loss. In other  words  that its actions  caused him to pay money  into the wrong  
account and be unable to resolve that issue before the deadline. And in this case, Im not 
persuaded it was Tilneys  actions that caused  the problem. 
Mr B has provided a number of emails which he said proved that he told Tilney about  the 
May 2018 deadline. But, from what Ive seen the emails are predominately from the time that 
hed already sent the payments and they hadnt  been received  so I dont think  they support 
Ref: DRN09071844Mr Bs assertion that Tilney was made aware of his need to have the payments transferred 
by May 2018. In addition, I havent seen  any reference to the May deadline either  in Tilneys 
suitability report or in the email trail between Tilney and Mr Bs employer  when Tilney was 
trying to understand how to set the plan up. That doesnt mean of course that Tilney should 
have delayed matters  and taken longer than was necessary to set things  up. And once the 
account had been corrected set up, I dont think it did unduly  delay  matters.  
But its clear that Tilney did make errors here  primarily in sending  Mr B the wrong form to 
set up his GIA. It was aware of his circumstances and should have known that an overseas 
account was necessary.  And Tilney  didnt deal with Mr and Mrs Bs change  of address 
correctly and continued to communicate  with them at the previous address. But its 
acknowledged these  errors and offered Mr B £250  for the distress  and inconvenience they 
caused. Ive looked at the impact of the errors and theres no doubt that they were  a 
contributory factor to the overall  trouble and upset Mr B suffered here. But I think the offer is 
fair and reasonable and within the range  of what Id expect to see for such  errors. 
Ultimately, I dont think the delay in issuing the correct form was the cause of Mr B not being 
able to receive his employers  pension  contributions before the deadline his employer 
imposed. I think that was caused by problems  with transferring money  to the bank accounts  
involved and I dont  think that was Tilneys fault.  So, I dont think Tilney  should have to 
compensate Mr B for the loss hes suffered  in not getting the contributions paid. 
my final decision
Tilney Financial Planning  Limited has already made  an offer to pay £250 to settle Mr Bs 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Tilney Financial Planning Limited should pay £250  compensation, if it 
hasn't done so already .
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0907184