K820x#14complaint
Mrs V has complained about The Royal  London Mutual Insurance Society Limited. She is 
unhappy about the payments it has made on three  pension policies her late husband held 
with them.
background
Mr V died in May 2018. At the time of his death  he held three pension plans with Royal 
London which he had started between 1984 and 1987. These were all with-profits  retirement 
annuity contracts.  He was due to reach  his stated  retirement age in late 2018 and in January 
2018 he had received  information about  his potential retirement benefits from these pension 
plans. The information included potential transfer  values and indicated that the three 
pensions had a combined transfer  value of over £50,000.
But the plans  were not transferred before Mr Vs death. After  his death, Mrs V discovered 
that the benefits payable  were substantially less than the transfer values. This was because 
each plan returned only the contributions made plus interest at 4 per cent if the pension  
holder died before the retirement date. 
The terms and conditions  of the policies said:
On death before the pension date the gross  premiums paid will be returned with compound  
interest at 4% per annum.
It seems  that Mr V had considered transferring his pensions to another provider in the early 
part of 2018. Mrs V says that before this was completed Royal London  offered him the 
option of an enhanced annuity. Unfortunately Mr V died before confirming what he wanted to 
do with his pensions.
Following his death, Mrs V was told that the returned contributions and interest were payable  
which amounted  to less than £30,000.
Mrs V complained saying  that the terms and conditions in relation  to the bereavement  claim 
were unreasonable, and that Royal London should pay the entire fund value. She also felt 
that if Royal London hadnt  delayed  the transfer by making an alternative offer, then the 
transfer of Mr Vs pension  would  have been  completed before his death. Royal London didnt 
uphold the complaint and said it was only acting in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
policies. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it should not be upheld.  He 
considered the terms and conditions of the policies and agreed that Royal London was 
applying them correctly.  In addition, he felt that Royal London had a duty to remain  fair and 
impartial to all of its consumers and so it should follow  the terms and conditions of its 
policies.
 
Mrs V didnt agree. She felt that given the policies were taken out at a time when regulation  
was less stringent,  the terms should not be enforced as they were unfair. She also said that 
Royal London had stopped the transfer  going  ahead by offering an alternative in order to 
retain Mr Vs custom. 
Ref: DRN06224802The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion on the complaint.  He said that Mr V 
had entered into a contract with Royal London,  and the terms of the contract would not 
change over time. In addition, he felt that it was Mr Vs choice to consider the alternative 
option offered  by Royal London, and not something which  it had any control  over. He didnt 
believe that Royal London offering Mr V an alternative to transferring out meant that it should  
then be responsible for the apparent loss caused by Mr Vs sudden  death.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can fully understand  that the discovery that these plans  were worth much  less than 
expected, when Mr V died suddenly, will have caused Mrs V great upset at what was already 
obviously a very difficult time for her and for her family. I am very sorry about that.
But having  considered all the circumstances  Ive reached the same decision as the 
adjudicator. I dont uphold this complaint. 
Royal London was following the terms and conditions of the policies when it calculated the 
benefits payable  on Mr Vs death  before  his retirement date. Mr Vs contributions were 
invested in a with-profits fund. This is a form of pooled investment which  was much more 
common in the 1980s than it is now. It is not untypical for policies like these  to provide only 
for a refund of contributions if a plan pays out before the stated retirement  date, as is the 
case here.
I dont think Royal London was acting unreasonably when it applied the terms and conditions 
for the plans. To do otherwise would potentially be unfair on other  consumers who have 
invested in the same with-profits funds as it would impact on the share of the fund available 
for them.
Mr V had considered  transferring the pension plans but this had not taken place before his 
death. It seems that he may have been considering  the annuity  on offer from Royal  London. 
I think there was sufficient time for Mr V to transfer  his plans if he had definitely  wished to do 
that. I dont  think Royal  London was acting  unreasonably if it tried to demonstrate other 
options for these  policies,  including  enhanced  annuities.
I think its also worth considering that these plans were retirement annuity contracts  which 
were designed  to provide an income in retirement. Two of the three plans included 
guaranteed annuities. This type of guarantee was a typical feature of polices like these and 
because the policies were arranged so long ago, when investment conditions were  very 
different, the guarantees now appear  very generous  by todays standards.  The guaranteed 
annuities here meant that the income provided at retirement would be much higher, more 
than double, the income Mr V could have obtained if he had transferred  out and then bought 
annuities on the open market at current annuity  rates. So the guarantees would have been 
seen as a very valuable  feature of these two plans and not something  which  would have 
been given up lightly. Transferring would have meant giving  up these valuable guarantees 
and so I doubt that Mr V would have been advised  to transfer  so close  to his intended 
retirement date.
So for these reasons, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate that this isnt the 
outcome Mrs V hopes  for and I do sympathise  with her situation.  But I can only uphold  a 
Ref: DRN06224803complaint where  a business has got something wrong and failed  to act fairly. In this case, 
Royal London was following the terms of the policies and, for the reasons I have set out, I 
doubt Mr V would have  transferred out of these plans and given up the valuable guarantees 
they provided.   
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0622480