K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a credit card in January 2003. Ms S says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax 
(Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Halifax made it clear that Ms S didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Ms S says the PPI was added without her consent  and so she didnt know she had it. So Ive 
looked carefully at her credit card application form to decide  whats  most likely  to have 
happened at the time.
I accept that I cant know exactly what was said during the meeting between  Ms S and 
Halifax, but the application form includes a tick box to include PPI. Although the box appears  
to have been pre-crossed before it was printed, the entire application  form is pre-printed.  So 
I think its more likely than not that this was the result of a discussion between Ms S and 
Halifax. And if Ms S didnt understand the form, or didnt agree to the PPI box being 
selected, I think shed  most likely have questioned it, or not signed the form at the time.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms S so it had to check that it was right for her  and based 
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For example she 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and she seems  to have 
had a need for the cover. I understand that she was entitled to sick pay from her employer, 
but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to that, for up to a year.  So Ms S wouldve been 
able to use her sick pay for any other financial commitments she had. The PPI wouldve also 
paid out if Ms S had lost her job  and from what shes said,  it doesnt  seem as though she 
had anything else in place to enable her to sustain her credit card repayments,  such  as 
savings, if that had happened.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
I want to reassure Ms S that Ive thought carefully about everything  shes said.  But having  
done so, I dont think that Halifax  mis-sold the PPI to her.
This means  Halifax doesnt  need to refund everything Ms S paid for the PPI. But Halifax  has 
already offered to give Ms S back some of the cost of the PPI. 
Ref: DRN06466092Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Ms S now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0646609