K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) removed £600 from their 
account, without  notice.
background 
On the 27 December Mr and Mrs Ss bank  account had a credit  balance of £11.87. Two 
credits from the DWP were received  into the account the following day and a direct  debit 
payment was made of £15.91. The balance at that point would have been £524.24. In the 
knowledge that the benefits had been  paid into the account, Mrs S tried to withdraw  £300  
from an ATM, but as it didnt work she went into the Post Office  to carry out the transaction.  
She withdrew £300 but the cashier recorded the transaction  as a credit to her account rather  
than a debit. That had the effect of increasing  her balance to £824.24,  when in fact it should 
have reduced it to £224.24.
On the 31 December 5 card payments  were  made  from the account totalling  £126.40  and 
also 5 cash withdrawals from ATMs  totalling  £690.  On the 11 January £185.88 was received  
into the account from the DWP and then withdrawn  in cash the same  day. 
On the 14 January £600 was credited to the account by a deposit  in a branch. The next 
recorded transactions are on the 21 January and show a number of card payments followed 
by 3 cash withdrawals  from an ATM totalling  £550. The same day, Barclays recovered £600  
from the account and returned it to the Post Office,  putting Mr and Mrs Ss account into an 
overdrawn position of £388.26.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Barclays that the initial error on the account  was not of their 
making and felt Barclays should return the £600  and remove any charges incurred because  
of the unauthorised overdraft position.  Barclays didnt consider it had done anything wrong, 
as it had not caused the error. It argued  Mr and Mrs S were back in the position they should 
have been in before the error. As such they did not consider they had acted unfairly.
Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy with Barclays response and so an adjudicator looked into the 
complaint and managed to get Barclays to make an offer of £100  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. But as Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. I need to consider whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr and Mrs S. I take into account both their view and that of Mr and Mrs S. My aim is not to 
address every single  point  raised, rather to reach a fair and reasonable decision based on 
the evidence before me. 
The evidence is quite  clear in that a £300 debit was wrongly noted in Mr and Mrs Ss 
account as a credit. This had the effect of increasing  Mr and Mrs Ss balance by £600. At the 
time of the transaction the balance on the account  was very low, and I am confident that 
Mr and Mrs S would have known that since  the average balance  for the preceding  two 
Ref: DRN08298592months had also been  low. Three  days after the error was made,  £690  in cash  was 
withdrawn from ATMs,  and then £600  in cash deposited two weeks  later. A week after that 
£550 in cash was withdrawn from ATMs.  I think this pattern shows that Mr and Mrs S were 
aware of the error. In fact the simple arithmetic of it would  make that clear, because on the 
28 December when  Mrs S withdrew £300 she would have  been  expecting a balance  of 
around £500. So having received £300  in cash from the cashier she would have expected it 
to have reduced to around £200,  but it didnt, it increased to £800. I am satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs S would have known that position must have been wrong.
Barclays received notification from the Post Office  of the error on the 7 January, and they put 
what is known as a Branch Transaction  Log marker  onto the account the same day. That 
was the correct procedure and Barclays followed it. When funds were returned to the 
account on the 21 January, Barclays did provide notice to Mr and Mrs S by telling them by 
text that the error had been corrected. However, that day £550 in cash  was withdrawn  too 
which created the overdrawn  position.  
I am not convinced that there  has been  any great inconvenience and distress caused  here,  
since it appears clear to me that Mr and Mrs S were aware at all times of the error.  And any 
inconvenience and distress was not caused by Barclays, rather  the it was Post Office. 
Nevertheless Barclays have reacted positively and sympathetically to Mr and Mrs Ss 
predicament by offering  £100 and I think that is very generous and reasonable.
So, I know Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same  
conclusion as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. I cant say Barclays  have acted 
unfairly and Im not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
Barclays has already  made  an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think  this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision  is that Barclays should pay £100 to 
Mr and Mrs S and for the reasons set out above  I do not uphold the complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0829859