K820x#14Complaint
Mr F has complained that esure Insurance Limited caused delay in repairing his car when he 
made a claim under  his car insurance policy.
background
Mr F made a claim under his car insurance  policy. In January 2018  esure  arranged  for 
Mr Fs car to be repaired at an approved repairers.
In April 2018 Mr F complained as it took three months for his car to be repaired. He said hed 
wanted to sell his car after it was repaired.  He was paying monthly  finance  repayments for it. 
He was unhappy that esure said windscreen  damage wasnt part of the claim and that Mr F 
would need to make a separate  claim for those  repairs. Mr F said he lost approximately  
£1,000 due to the way esure dealt with his claim. 
esure wasnt able to establish what caused  the delay with the approved repairer. So it 
accepted the approved repairer  caused a delay  and paid Mr F compensation of £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience the delay  caused.  It mistakenly refunded the yearly  premium 
Mr F paid for his policy  for £448.49.  Mr F was unhappy that he needed to pay for two 
replacement car seats upfront and the excess for the windscreen  claim. So to resolve Mr Fs 
complaint, esure decided  not to ask Mr F to repay the £448.49 back.  It didnt ask Mr F to 
provide receipts  for the replacement car seats.
Mr F remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator  thought 
esure has acted reasonably. Mr F had been  in a hire car for the duration  of the repairs.  It 
was reasonable  to say that even  if his car wasnt being repaired, Mr F would have had the 
costs of running a car. So he didnt think esure owed Mr F a refund of the finance 
repayments he made while his car was being repaired.  
The investigator thought it was difficult to speculate that the delay  caused  Mr F to sell his car 
for a lower  price. So overall he thought esure  had done enough to put things right. 
Mr F didnt  agree. He doesnt think we should use the £448.49 as a resolution to his 
complaint. It was esures error. Despite  this, he was chased and harassed by a debt 
recovery agent for the amount after esure agreed to waive it. Mr F said he used  the £448.49 
to buy replacement car seats which he was entitled to claim for under the policy.  
Because of the delay, Mr F believes esure should compensate  him for two and half months  
finance repayments and depreciation in the selling value of his car. He says if he had been  
able to sell his car sooner, he would have received a higher price for his car as it was newer  
and had a longer MOT. 
Mr F doesnt agree that the windscreen  damage  to his car was already there  as esures  
engineer reported.  He said it was caused  by the incident. 
Our investigator explained that if Mr F was unhappy  with being contacted by a debt recovery 
agent, he will need to raise this as a new complaint with esure.  
Mr F provided details of when he sold his car and the final settlement he owed in April 2018. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN07933952my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
It does seem that the repairs to Mr Fs car took longer than they should have and esure  
hasnt been able to explain what caused the delay at the garage. So I think esure should pay 
some compensation to Mr F for that. During  this time Mr F had use of a courtesy car. He was 
also making finance payments on his car.
I dont think it would  be fair to ask esure  to refund the finance payments to Mr F for the time 
the car was being repaired. Mr F says the delay in repairing his car caused  it to lose value in 
depreciation when he came  to sell it. He says he was told this by the garage he sold his car 
to in April 2018.
I havent seen  any evidence that the delay in repairing Mr Fs car directly  led to depreciation 
in its value. Whilst the value of cars does depreciate with age I dont think  a delay of two 
months would  have had a significant effect  on its value. I wouldnt consider it unreasonable  
for repairs to take between two to four weeks in any event. So I think the compensation of 
£150 that esure has paid Mr F for the distress and inconvenience the delay caused him is 
enough to put things  right. 
I understand Mr F doesnt agree with the engineers view that the damage to the windscreen  
was caused by pre existing chips.  But there isnt anything to contradict the engineers report.  
So I think it was reasonable of esure to rely on it when deciding  Mr F needed to make  a 
separate claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0793395