K820x#14complaint
Ms S is unhappy with the way Aviva  Insurance Limited handled her travel insurance claim.
background
Ms S was on a trip overseas and made a claim on her travel  insurance policy  due to a 
horseshoe tear in her retina. Shed had an initial appointment  with a medical professional 
and was told that she required surgery as soon as possible to stop the condition  from 
deteriorating further, so an emergency  appointment was made for the same day at a second 
medical facility in a different location.
While Ms S was on the way to the second  facility, she called Aviva  to discuss claiming for 
the cost of the treatment. Ms S has complained about the way the insurer handled the calls 
she made on the way to the surgery, and thinks theyve acted inappropriately. In summary: 
She was kept on the line for a very long time,  and was provided with contradictory  
information about whether her call charges would be reimbursed;
The first agent Ms S spoke to (K) overstepped her authority as she said that private  
medical facilities overseas  are expensive and implied that the surgery probably didnt 
need doing, and that she ought to wait until back in the UK, despite the matter clearly  
being an emergency;
If Ms S had taken  Ks advice and not gone  ahead with treatment, theres a strong 
chance she could  have lost her eyesight;
The second agent Ms S spoke to (V) advised her to have a particular course of 
treatment  despite not being  medically trained   and despite the recommended 
treatment option carrying serious  risks.
Ms S feels the agents she spoke to were insensitive and irresponsible as they gave advice 
about medical conditions when they were not medically trained, which  caused  her a 
considerable amount of distress. She also feels the insurer was more  interested in 
completing their forms and keeping costs  down, rather  than the health  of their policyholders.
Aviva looked  into the matter and apologised,  but they didnt think  their agents  had offered 
any medical opinions,  but that they were  keen to explain  the significance  of the medical  
information in the decision making process. And with regards to the course of treatment 
Ms S was recommended by V, they said this was simply made as a general observation 
rather than a medical opinion. Unhappy with this, Ms S brought  her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, as she didnt think that either  of the agents  had 
provided medical advice  or had acted inappropriately. Ms S disagreed,  so the complaint  has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive listened to the call recordings and 
considered what  was said within the context  of the stressful circumstances and worry that 
Ms S must  have been under at the time. But having  done so, I dont think the insurers  
agents have acted inappropriately, or have offered any medical  opinion  for that matter, so I 
will not be upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN08593922call with K
Ive listened to the initial call that took place with K, whereby  Ms S submits  that derogatory  
comments were  made about the health system within the country she was visiting and that 
surgery probably wasnt necessary until she came  home.
During the call, K mentions that a detached retina would  generally be considered to be a 
medical emergency, such that treatment should  be undertaken immediately overseas and 
said so we agree that you do need  to have the treatment as soon  as possible in order  to 
give you the best recovery. 
K goes  on to say: Im not allowed to give you out any medical  advicebut  in my experience  
of previous cases, people have been told that we generally [provide] cover for detached 
retinas to have the surgery abroad. But where this is a horseshoe  tear, I would have to run 
that by my medical  team  just to review the case and confirm cover.
So, given that the horseshoe tear was not at the stage of a detached retina,  K explained  that 
she would  have to check with the medical team to ensure overseas treatment would be 
covered for this particular condition. Ms S explained  that if she doesnt get the horseshoe  
tear repaired  now that it could result in a detached  retina, which is why she was heading to 
surgery immediately. K acknowledges this and says:
OK, I mean  what some  people experience when theyre abroad  if theyre  in a private 
medical facility is that theyre not in the business  of shooing away business, so they will say 
there are a lot of procedures that are a medical  emergency, but where  we come in with the 
travel insurance is to say is this a medical  emergency that has to be treated abroad, or 
could it wait until youre back in the UK so we are a sort of [moderator] and we use 
independent advice, and where its medically necessary then were OK to cover. 
Importantly, K then also says Im suggesting  this is likely to be coverable, but we would just 
need to see [the relevant medical  documentation] in writing for the medical  team to be able 
to give you confirmation  
However, when Ms S was making  her complaint to V about the above conversation,  she said 
that K told her: you can probably wait until you come home and oh you know what  
[overseas treatment facilities] are like, [the surgery] probably doesnt need doing. And when 
complaining directly to K, Ms S similarly  said that shed been  told oh well in [overseas 
treatment facilities] theyll often get you to have things done that dont need doing  until you 
come back  to the UK and that K was telling  her she should fly home to the UK without doing 
[the surgery].
But having  considered what K actually said on the phone call, I dont  think Ms Ss 
recollection is a particularly fair summary of what was said. I dont think K was saying  as a 
matter of fact that overseas treatment facilities will always  get you to undertake treatment 
that isnt strictly necessary. And it appears to me that K was simply setting the context as to 
why they cant  automatically approve cover for all emergency treatment overseas. I dont 
think this is inappropriate, as the matter of whether overseas treatment is necessary is a 
consideration that all travel insurers will explore to ensure that such treatment would be 
covered under the policy.
Ms S says that if shed taken Ks advice and not gone ahead with treatment,  then the 
condition of her eye couldve been a lot worse. But I do not agree that K advised Ms S that 
Ref: DRN08593923her treatment should wait until returning  home.  In fact, K said that it was likely to be covered, 
but that it would  just have to be approved by the medical team  first. 
I appreciate that Ms S was under  a considerable amount of distress at the time given the 
condition she was suffering from, and it appears  that some  things  K said may have been 
misinterpreted. But I cant agree that she has acted inappropriately in the circumstances or 
had at any point  given medical  advice,  as it appears  she was just giving a more  detailed 
explanation of the decision  making process  that sits behind the claim. 
call with V 
Ms S called  Aviva again shortly after her discussion with K, where she then spoke to V. Ms S 
was unhappy  with this conversation because she feels that V advised her to take a particular 
course of treatment in order to treat her eye, despite not being medically trained. Having 
listened to the call, I can see that V said:
one thing to bear in mind if youre  having  surgery  if there is any kind of air used it does  
cause very big issues with flying. I know they can use something called a silicone [oil] I 
believe for the surgery, so if you just bear that in mind with regards to the surgery, if there  is 
any air used we need to know basically, and if there is any option not to have the air and to 
have an alternative,  that means  you will be safer to travel OK?
Ms S asked for further details, but V said Im not medically trained, but I know  there  is air 
used or gas used somewhere, that causes big issues  with flying because  it has to be 
absorbed before you can travel. But there is an alternative,  and one of them  is silicone oil. 
So if you can have that chat before you have surgery.
Ms S says V gave her medical advice, and put considerable pressure on her to opt for the 
silicon oil treatment. She also says it was recommended to her, and that V told her to make 
sure this is what happens. But again, having listened to the call recording myself, I do not 
agree that this is what Ms S was being  told. V was telling  her it was something to bear in 
mind if she wanted to fly soon, for example, as shes known air treatment  to cause problems 
in the past with flying. 
I appreciate that the wording used by V couldve been better, particularly  when describing  
the timescale of four to six weeks in which patients  have to wait to travel  as ridiculous if 
theyve received any air treatment. But it appears  that V was speaking from her past claims 
experience, and was giving  Ms S this information  so she could have a full and frank  
discussion with the surgeon if she wanted to undertake any air travel soon. I dont think  it 
can be construed as medical advice, or pressure to take a certain course  of treatment, 
because on more than one occasion  V told Ms S to have this discussion with the surgeon, 
where it would  ultimately be her decision to be treated in whatever way suited her priorities  
at the time. V also made it clear that she was not medically trained, so I consider it was more 
a case of something to bear in mind  from a claims perspective depending on Ms Ss plans 
and priorities, rather than any medical advice on the subject. Policyholders are often 
required to consult with their insurer before undertaking treatment  overseas,  so I dont find it 
unusual that an insurer would want to draw any potential issues to the attention  of the 
insured.
call charges
Ref: DRN08593924I can see that Ms S was given contradictory  information regarding whether the cost of calling 
Aviva from overseas would be covered. But Aviva acknowledged this, and have offered to 
cover the cost of the calls, which I think is fair in the circumstances. I appreciate that Ms S 
was kept on hold and that some of the calls took longer than she expected, but given the 
information required by the insurer in order to properly assess the claim,  I dont  think  the 
time spent  on the phone was wholly unreasonable, such that further compensation should 
be awarded.
In summary,  I understand that Ms S was under a lot of stress at the time. And I appreciate  
that it would  never have  been ideal to have to think about paperwork and answering 
numerous questions  when she was suffering and worried about her sight.  But having 
reviewed the conversations she had with Aviva, I dont think theyve overstepped their 
function as the insurer  by giving medical advice, or that anything they said was inappropriate 
in that regard. So I wont be asking them to pay any compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0859392