K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained Madison CF UK Limited,  trading as 118 118 Money, is holding her 
liable for a loan she didnt  apply for in 2017.
background
In 2017 Mrs B noticed direct debits were  being  taken from her account every month. These 
payments were for £287.52  a month.  She got in touch with 118 118 Money (where the 
payments were going) to tell them  shed  never  taken out a loan with them.  They put 
collections temporarily on hold and carried out an investigation.
In March 2018 118 118 Money confirmed there is not enough  evidence  present to 
conclusively prove that this application  was fraudulent. They continued to hold Mrs B liable 
for the loan. Mrs Bs husband,  on her behalf,  brought her complaint to the ombudsman  
service.
He confirmed to us that Mrs B had been  the victim  of fraud  committed by a family member. 
This person had defrauded other  acquaintances whilst staying with Mrs B and her husband.  
Hed also helped Mrs B set up mobile banking so had been able to access the loan funds as 
soon as they were  paid into Mrs Bs account. Mrs Bs husband  said it was also clear that 
there was no reason  for Mrs B to apply for a £3,000 loan.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the evidence including  calls from 118 118 Money. These included 
a phone call when the loan was set up as well as when  Mrs B disputed  this loan. 118 118 
Money had noted  the voices on these calls were different and that at least  one of the 
security questions had not been  answered correctly  on the early  call. But overall  118 118 
Money had thought the voice could be Mrs Bs daughter. Theyd seen Mrs B made  regular 
payments (prior to the loan) to what they thought was her daughter.
After considering all the evidence,  our adjudicator believed  Mrs B hadnt  made  the loan 
application. However he felt shed likely disclosed the security  details  of her bank account to 
a third party. Because of this he didnt think it would  be fair to say Mrs B shouldnt  repay the 
loan. 
Mrs B was unhappy with this outcome  as shed been a victim  of fraud and hadnt  had any 
benefit of the money. She asked an ombudsman to review her complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 4 November  2019. I decided there wasnt enough  
evidence to show Mrs B had either applied for this loan or had benefit of the money. I asked 
118 118 Money to put things right.
Mrs B accepted this outcome.  118 118 Money  didnt and re-stated some of the arguments  
theyd made  in their original case to us. They, however, were willing to suggest  Mrs B didnt 
in all likelihood apply  for the loan.  But as theyd felt shed acted negligently,  they felt she 
should pay the initial loan amount of £3,000.
I now have enough  information to make  my final decision.
Ref: DRN07177972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision. Where appropriate Ive referred to the points 
118 118 Money made following  that decision.
Firstly Ive looked at the evidence  of the original application  made  in Mrs Bs name. The 
email and phone details dont match the ones Mrs B has used in her complaint to us. 118 
118 Money suggest  its not uncommon for people to have more than one phone number or 
email address. I agree that can be the case but Ive seen nothing  here this applies to Mrs B.
I can see that the bank  account details are Mrs Bs. So whoever made this application 
anticipated being able to get the money  from her account. Its certainly true we wouldnt ask 
a loan company  to stop pursuing  someone if theyd had the benefit  of the money  but there is 
no evidence this is what happened here.
Mrs B hadnt  formerly used online banking and this had been set up by the family member  
who then defrauded her. 118 118 Money  tried to obtain confirmation  from Mrs Bs bank 
whether this was the case.  Its fair to say what they were told did not clarify this issue.
If this was a complaint against Mrs Bs bank, we may consider whether she acted with 
intent in allowing someone else to set up and know her bank details. As theres no doubt 
payments equating  to the loan funds  were made  out of her account. 
But this isnt a complaint  against Mrs Bs bank  but the loan company. The first thing I need  to 
decide is whether  Mrs B applied for the loan or not. If she didnt  and she had no benefit of 
the money  then 118 118 Money cant ask her to repay the loan.  118 118 Money believe 
this is odd logic but as I show  below this actually relates to the law.  
Mrs Bs evidence  is that she had no need to take out any loan around  this time as she 
earned money from part-time work  assisting her husbands business.  This money was 
enough for her to manage her regular expenses. A family member had been  helping her with 
her banking and in return shed made some small transactions on his behalf, which hed 
repaid her for.
Ive seen Mrs Bs bank statements for the period January 2017 to mid-2018. Other loans  
were also applied for and the money transferred elsewhere by the family member  for his 
use. Ive seen there was payments inwards too. It is possible this was attempted payment for 
the loans that had been taken out. But I cant see this applied to the loan from 118 118 
Money, where £3,000 was transferred straightaway  and nothing matching came into Mrs Bs 
account.
Mrs B wasnt  consistently checking her bank account at the time so she didnt notice the 
direct debits she was paying  from 20 April onwards. But when she did realise  she contacted  
118 118 Money to try and find out what was going on. As her contact details didnt match  the 
application data,  they were loath to believe she was their customer. That seems slightly 
ironic. 
At this time when Mrs B contacted 118 118 Money  by email, they believe she was trying to 
settle the loan and find out how to pay it off. And Id reviewed this correspondence before 
completing the provisional decision  and agree thats what  these emails  look like. But I dont 
Ref: DRN07177973think at that time the full story had emerged of what had happened and what  her relative had 
done by using her account. I think its more than likely she didnt  know she could tell them  
shed never  taken out this loan or had any responsibility towards it.
118 118 Moneys conclusion that Mrs B was regularly making  payments  to her daughter and 
that she may well have taken out the loan is completely incorrect.  At the time this happened,  
Mrs Bs eldest  daughter  was only 11 years old. The payments they saw were  transactions 
carried out by the family member in his own name.
Its difficult to come  to any other  conclusion  than Mrs B didnt take out the loan with 118 118 
Money. I say this because:
The application was made with some  details that werent  hers;
The voice of the person 118 118 Money spoke to when setting up the loan is 
obviously not Mrs Bs (they  admitted this too);
Around this time Mrs B was a victim  of someone using her bank account; and
Mrs Bs own evidence  over the past two years  has been consistent and persuasive.
What 118 118 Money  seems to be doing  is making a personal  claim against Mrs B because 
in their opinion  Mrs B got some kind of benefit from the funds which  were  credited to her 
account. Im afraid I dont  agree  that that is fair or reasonable. Firstly  118 118 Money has no 
contractual relationship with Mrs B as she didnt take out the loan. Then Mrs B had no 
knowledge of the loan,  nor that any funds  had been  credited  to her account and had no 
knowledge of the funds  leaving her account.  
It is plain  to me that if 118 118 Money  wish to get their money back, they should  direct that 
claim towards the person who actually applied for the loan or who ultimately received the 
funds. That is of course a matter for 118 118 Money to consider. In any event as far as this 
complaint is concerned I am intending  to uphold it because 118 118 Money  has not treated 
Mrs B fairly.
I have considered the issues  118 118 Money raised about whether Mrs B acted negligently. 
But Im not sure in law how that would have any relevance to this case  against 118 118 
Money. The test in the Payment Services Regulations is gross negligence. I agree good  
practice is to check ones bank statements but I wouldnt call someone  grossly negligent for 
not doing so. 
I am in no doubt from the evidence Mrs B didnt  use or benefit from the money. Therefore it 
isnt fair for 118 118 Money to ask her to repay  this. I will now be instructing 118 118 Money 
to put things right.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 
118 118 Money, to:
Stop pursuing  Mrs B for this loan which she didnt apply for;
Repay  the eight  payments of £287.52 made from Mrs Bs account  from 20 April to 
20 November  2017;
Add 8% simple interest  to those amounts from the date Mrs B paid them  to 118 118 
Money until the date of settlement; and
Remove any data about  this loan from Mrs Bs credit record.
Ref: DRN07177974Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0717797