K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy  with the increases in premiums on their home insurance with 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc (StAIP).
background 
Mr and Mrs Ns insurance policy with StAIP started  in August 2004. It initially  cost £371.17 
for the year. The cover was amended  in December 2004, to cover  a specific  item which  cost 
an additional  £28.86 for the remainder  of that insurance year.
The next year, 2005, Mr and Mrs Ns insurance  cost £438.43.
In 2014, the renewal quote was for £1,205.83. At this time, Mr and Mrs N cancelled the 
policy and took out cover with another insurer for around £245. 
Because the cost had gone  up, Mr and Mrs N thought StAIP had taken  advantage  by unfairly 
increasing the cost of the policy every year. Mr and Mrs N say the cost of the policy  was 
hidden within their monthly mortgage payment  and it only became clear how much they were 
paying when the insurance was paid for with a separate direct debit in July 2014 and in the 
subsequent August 2014 renewal.
In making their complaint to StAIP Mr and Mrs N also provided it with the quote  of an 
alternative policy they obtained  that was being  offered by StAIP.  The alternative policy quote 
they obtained was for £292.25 which was considerably  less than what StAIP had quoted  
them for their 2014 renewal premium. 
So Mr and Mrs N say they were  charged  too much and should  be reimbursed for the extra  
they had paid over the years. Mr and Mrs N estimated  they were owed around  £4,500  in 
compensation. 
Unhappy Mr and Mrs N referred  the matter to our service. Several adjudicators have looked 
at the complaint since it has been  with our service.
Recently, StAIP offered to refund some  of the cost of the insurance. It offered Mr and Mrs N 
£1,947.68. It also explained it would include additional compensation on each overpayment 
at 8% simple interest per year  to compensate Mr and Mrs N for being out of pocket of that 
money. 
And finally it also offered  an additional £200  as compensation for the trouble Mr and Mrs N 
had been caused.  
Our adjudicator thought the offer was a fair way to resolve things.
As Mr and Mrs N disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved,  its been  passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN03137092I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether StAIP has treated Mr and Mrs N fairly throughout the period they held 
their insurance policy. 
If I find that StAIP hasnt treated Mr and Mrs N fairly, I will look to see what  compensation 
would be fair and in this case, whether I think what StAIP has offered is fair.
When Mr and Mrs N took out their policy in 2004,  it cost £371.17 for the year,  although this 
was amended mid-term, and the insurance cost £438.43 upon renewal in 2005.
I understand there was an introductory discount. This isnt uncommon and policies may well 
initially be priced lower to attract new customers.  I dont think  its unfair  for an insurer  to seek 
to recoup that cost over the subsequent  years.  
While Mr and Mrs N did speak to StAIP about the policy to amend  it mid-term in 2004, it 
appears that after this Mr and Mrs N didnt engage  with StAIP about the renewal  quotes  they 
were given and their premium continued  to increase each year.  
If StAIP should have  realised Mr and Mrs N werent  the type of people  who shopped around 
for cheaper  insurance  regularly, and it increased  the price  just because  they didnt engage at 
renewal, that wouldnt be fair. 
But StAIP has offered  to refund some of the costs of the insurance premiums  Mr and Mrs N 
paid  its offered  £1,947.68. It has also offered Mr and Mrs N additional  compensation for 
them being  out of pocket  (which will be set at 8% simple interest per year) and £200 for the 
trouble caused.  
So Ive looked  to see whether I think what it has offered is fair.
Mr and Mrs N think that their compensation should be around  £4,500.  And thats because 
they got a policy with another insurer for around £250 in 2014.
But the new insurance they got with another provider (and the quote they obtained  from 
StAIP) included a new customer discount.  As I have explained above  I think  it's fair that an 
insurer recoups that discount over the subsequent  years.  I dont think its fair to expect an 
insurer to maintain that discount for the duration someone has their policy. 
So it wouldnt be fair for StAIP to use what Mr and Mrs Ns new policy cost (with another  
provider  which had a discount) when working out its offer. 
And Mr and Mrs N, in working out what they think their compensation should be, have also 
taken into account  the policys whole duration. I dont think thats  quite right, Ill explain why. 
In those earlier years of the policy, StAIP  was recouping the initial discount applied to the 
policy. Also StAIP wouldnt have known  in the early  years Mr and Mrs N held their policy that 
they werent the type of people to shop around for cheaper insurance. That wouldnt have 
become apparent for some years. Given this, I cant say that StAIP had unfairly  increased  
the price at renewal, just because Mr and Mrs N didnt engage, in the early  years.  
Ref: DRN03137093So I wouldnt  expect StAIP to be paying back some of the cost of the insurance from the 
start of the policy as Mr and Mrs N think should happen. Im also mindful that Mr and Mrs N 
agreed to the insurance cost when they took out the insurance at the outset.
In light of what Ive said above, and having considered StAIPs offer, I think its fair. It makes  
sure Mr and Mrs N havent  lost out if StAIP did increase the price just because  they didnt  
engage at each renewal.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs N were concerned that the insurance premium  was included  in 
within their mortgage  payment up until 2014,  so they think  it wasnt made  clear  as to what  
they were paying.  Insurance renewals  were most likely sent out each year,  but in any event, 
I think StAIPs offer now ensures Mr and Mrs N havent lost out because of any unfairness 
caused if StAIP did increase the price just because  they didnt engage at each renewal.
I also think StAIPs additional  compensation offer of £200, for the trouble caused  to 
Mr and Mrs N, throughout  their complaint is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, St Andrews Insurance Plcs  offer to refund some of the costs 
of Mr and Mrs Ns policy from 2010  is fair.
St Andrews  Insurance Plc should also calculate the additional compensation (set at 8% 
simple interest per year)  owed to Mr and Mrs N for being out of pocket of that money.
St Andrews  Insurance Plcs additional  compensation offer of £200  for the trouble caused to 
Mr and Mrs N is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0313709