K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains on behalf  of W partnership about  the service  they have received from 
National Westminster Bank Plc. He says that they took out increased partnership  borrowings 
to cover the interim costs of finishing a new build property on the basis  that Mr W and his 
wife would be granted a residential mortgage when the property was completed. But the 
application for a residential mortgage was subsequently declined.  And he says that NatWest 
has caused delay  and confusion, causing  the partnership  to incur significant  professional  
adviser fees in addition  to the higher loan repayments.
The partnership is also unhappy  about  the structuring of the business  loan that was granted  
as some of the staged payments were released  before they were  needed. This has meant it 
incurred more interest than necessary.
background
Mr W says that he approached NatWest regarding a residential mortgage  for a property that 
he was building. And the partnership took out increased partnership borrowings on the 
business to cover the interim costs  of finishing the new property on the understanding  that 
this short  term loan would then covert into a residential mortgage.  But when Mr W and his 
wife made  a formal  application for a residential  mortgage this was refused. The only 
alternative available through NatWest was for the partnership to convert  the short term 
borrowing into a long term loan over 25 years at a higher interest  rate than they would  have 
paid on a residential mortgage.
our investigators view
Our investigator felt that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She said,  in summary, that Mr W 
and his partners  were existing customers who had a longstanding relationship with NatWest. 
So she felt it was understandable  that they relied on its advice in this situation. And she felt 
that NatWest should have  been  more cautious when it offered the partnership the short term 
borrowing. If it had done this it would have been  able to give the partners better advice. And 
the partners would have been  able to consider the implications of the short  term lending  and 
the possible long term effect on the business account more  carefully  as a result.
NatWest didnt agree with our investigators  view.  And it said that Mr W had said that the 
partners wished to proceed with a business  loan secured  on the new property.
The partners also didnt  agree with our investigators suggested redress.  Mr W said that 
NatWest should  pay the increased costs of the new business mortgage  for at least the first 
five years.  And he said they were  only proceeding with the business  loan because they had 
no other option.
Following our investigators view, NatWest  revalued  the business property and agreed that it 
was able to extend that loan on the basis of the security it already held.
my provisional view
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 25 July 2019.  I said,  in summary:
This complaint had been brought by the partnership. So, to be clear, I couldnt comment 
on NatWests decision to decline  Mr Ws mortgage application made  with his wife. But 
Ref: DRN05057892this complaint related to discussions that took place between NatWest and the 
partnership at an earlier stage, before  Mr W made a formal mortgage  application. On the 
basis of the evidence Id seen I was persuaded that Mr W and his partners were led to 
believe that he would be able to get a residential  mortgage when  the property was 
completed. Id not seen anything to suggest  that they were told that the residential 
mortgage wasnt guaranteed. And I agreed with our investigator that NatWest should 
have been more cautious in its advice.
I was satisfied that when the partners increased  their partnership borrowings  this was 
with the expectation that this borrowing would be converted  into a residential mortgage 
when the property was completed. As NatWest didnt make it clear to them  that the 
residential mortgage wasnt guaranteed they lost the opportunity to consider and 
investigate other  options  for raising  the money  at that time.
As our investigator had commented, the partners were  existing customers  who had a 
longstanding relationship with NatWest.  And I agreed that it was understandable that 
they relied on the information they were given when they initially approached NatWest  
regarding finance for the building project.
Mr W had said that NatWest  should cover the increased cost of the commercial loan 
over at least the first 5 years of the term. But, although Id considered what  he had to 
say, my provisional view was that I didnt agree. I was minded to agree  with our 
investigator that, as a result of the existing charges and restrictions on the land it was 
likely that the borrowing  would  always have been taken  out by the partnership.
I noted that NatWest  had now agreed to extend  the partnerships  existing borrowings. So 
I was provisionally persuaded that there was no longer a need  for Mr W and his partners 
to take further  advice  on the options available to them.
I agreed that Mr W and his partners had been  caused a great deal of stress and anxiety 
as a result of the poor advice  they received, and the time taken to resolve  matters.  I 
noted in particular that the mortgage  application was declined  in early  2018, but it took 
until early 2019 for NatWest to agree a long term solution  to the problem. Our 
investigator had recommended that NatWest should pay them  £750 compensation, and 
my provisional view was that this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Our investigator also recommended that NatWest should pay certain professional costs 
incurred by the partnership. And I agreed  that NatWest should  pay for any additional 
professional work carried out by the partnerships  solicitors  and accountant as a result  of 
NatWests poor communication and delays. 
Mr W had also complained about  the structuring  of the business  loan that was granted 
as some of the staged payments were released  before they were  needed. He said this 
meant that the partnership incurred more interest  than necessary.  NatWest had supplied 
information that showed that the disputed drawdown  payment was released in 
February 2018. It said that this was done in order to make  sure that there were sufficient 
funds to pay the builder  on completion of the build. But it said it was notified some time 
later that the builder  hadnt returned to complete the works and that the partnership 
wanted the funds to be returned to the loan account.  It said that the funds were left in 
place for a further period  in case the builder did return, but when this didnt happen the 
funds were repaid  to the loan account  at the start of July 2018. NatWest also agreed to 
credit interest from the date that the partners had advised that the funds  were  not 
Ref: DRN05057893required until the date they were re-credited to the account. I could see from the 
information supplied  to me that there were two credit  refunds for this of £150 each.
I appreciated that the partners were  unhappy  that the staged payments were  released 
earlier than needed but, on the basis of the information available to me, this appeared to 
be because of delays  by the builder  as opposed  to the payments being  released too 
soon. I was persuaded that NatWest had acted reasonably by agreeing to re-credit 
interest accrued  after being asked to return the funds to the loan account. And so my 
provisional view was that I wouldnt be asking NatWest to do anything  further  about  this 
aspect of the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W isnt happy with my provisional  decision.  He says, in summary, that the partnership  
has at no point been happy to proceed  with a business loan. He says that NatWests actions 
have caused the partners  both financial and emotional stress, and has left them  paying  more 
than they should be for the borrowing. 
I sympathise with Mr W. I have no doubt  that he and his partners have been caused a great 
deal of stress and anxiety  by this situation. But, although  Ive considered Mr Ws further  
comments I am not persuaded to change  my view for the reasons set out in my provisional  
decision.
NatWest has also responded to my provisional decision. It would like further clarity on what 
additional expenses  I am requiring it to pay to W partnership.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I think it is fair and reasonable for NatWest  to 
compensate W partnership for the additional  professional work carried  out by the 
partnerships solicitors  and accountants  as a rest of NatWests poor communication  and 
delays. And I said that, if the partnership accepts this decision then it should provide a full 
breakdown of the applicable professional costs to NatWest. 
Without seeing full breakdowns for W partnerships  solicitors  and accountants fees Im not 
able to say definitely what charges should be paid by NatWest but, by way of example, I find 
that NatWest should compensate W partnership for additional fees incurred as a result  of 
delays by NatWest  (such  as when  their solicitors had to chase the bank for information), and 
for any abortive  work carried out in relation to NatWests request for additional  security  over 
the business when it subsequently decided it already held sufficient security.
As set out in my provisional  decision, I dont require NatWest to compensate W partnership 
for any costs  incurred in relation to the application  for a residential mortgage, as this 
application was not made  by the partners, for anything that would always have been  
chargeable or for W partnerships costs in bringing  the complaint to this service. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order National Westminster Bank Plc to pay W 
partnership:
Ref: DRN05057894£750 compensation;
the additional professional fees they have incurred as described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask W partnership to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 October  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0505789