K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI)  has refused to pay all of his pet 
insurance claim.
In bringing this complaint Mr G has been  helped by his wife. But for ease Ill refer to her 
comments as being those of Mr G.
At the time of his complaint Mr Gs policy was underwritten by International Insurance  
Company of Hannover SE (IICH) but I understand IICH has recently been renamed as HDI. 
So the correct  business for this complaint to be against is now HDI. Reference to HDI 
includes its agents.  
background
Mr G has a pet policy for his dog which has a £4,000 limit per condition  over the dogs 
lifetime. The dog fell ill and required treatment. HDI accepted the claim but only paid part of it 
because it said that the dog had had previous treatment for the same condition  and had 
reached the £4,000 limit. So HDI paid Mr G roughly £1,440 but said he would have to pay 
the balance, which was around  £1,115.
Mr G said that the dogs recent treatment was for a different condition. So he said HDI 
should pay all of the claim. He brought his complaint to us.
On 1 March 2019 I issued  a provisional decision. I noted that some years  ago Mr Gs dog 
had had surgery for a condition  that the breed  is known to suffer from and which causes 
breathing difficulties. Ill refer to that condition as the disorder elsewhere  in this decision.  HDI 
had paid the claim for that treatment at the time.
When, more recently,  Mr Gs dog became unwell again his vet referred him for further 
treatment. On the insurance claim form the vets said the diagnosis for the condition treated 
was the disorder. They submitted their clinical notes with the claim form. Those notes said 
that the dogs  illness  was most likely caused by the dogs weight, the hot weather and the 
disorder. And, in the section setting out their costs, the vets gave the diagnosis as the 
disorder. So HDI felt that the dog had been  treated for the disorder and settled the claim on 
that basis.
The referral  vets later wrote a letter in which they said that their reference to the disorder 
was a mistake. And instead  theyd  treated the dog for another condition,  which  Ill refer to as 
the illness. The referral  vets appended a report, and said reference  to the disorder in that 
report was made only to discuss all of the dogs medical problems and they had instead  
treated the illness.
HDI told us that the vets notes clearly referred  to treating the dogs breathing  difficulties, 
which the disorder  contributed to. It said the illness was a complicating factor  of those 
breathing difficulties. It pointed out that at no point in the clinical notes at the time does it say 
that the dog was suffering  from the illness. It said that the vets comments that the dog was 
referred for treatment because of the illness contradict the clinical  history,  which  shows  that 
the dog was referred for his breathing difficulties. It added that the illness  wasn't diagnosed 
until tests were carried out after the referral.  It also said that the referral report shows two 
diagnoses, the disorder and the illness. But that the presenting symptoms  were breathing  
difficulties caused  by weight, warm weather and the disorder. And that the illness was a 
Ref: DRN08826932complicating factor of this. So it concluded that the cause of the symptoms  was the disorder. 
And it said it didn't  think the illness was a new and unrelated condition. 
I said I thought HDIs  conclusion that the illness was a complication  of the disorder was 
reasonable. Thats because it's clear that the disorder was mentioned as one of the main  
reasons for the referral;  its mentioned in the clinical notes, on the referral report, and also on 
the claim form the vets sent to HDI. I noted that the illness is also mentioned  as being 
suspected in the referral  report but isn't referred to in the clinical notes at the time. So I 
thought it likely that HDIs interpretation  that the illness  was a complication of the disorder 
was reasonable  in the circumstances. So I felt HDIs decision to reduce the amount  it paid,  
to the amounts remaining  under the condition limit for the disorder was also reasonable.
Mr G accepted my provisional  findings.  HDI didn't provide any further comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to depart 
from my provisional findings.
As neither Mr G nor HDI have raised any objection  to my provisional decision I see no 
reason to change  it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0882693