K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about the charges Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS) 
asked him to pay at the end of a car lease.
background 
Mr H took receipt of a new car in July 2015.  He financed the deal through  a hire agreement 
with VWFS. 
The term of the lease was extended  until November 2018. When Mr H did return  his car it 
was inspected and VWFS said hed need to pay them to repair  several areas of damage that 
they said was beyond reasonable wear and tear. They  also said hed need  to pay excess 
mileage charges as hed travelled further than he was allowed to under the terms of the 
finance agreement.
Discussions between Mr H, VWFS  and our adjudicator have  subsequently  led VWFS to 
agree to remove some of the charges. But they insist that the following charges are still 
applicable:
excess mileage charges of £612;
£18 for refurbishment  to the rear bumper  where  theres been an unsatisfactory  repair;
£138 for refurbishment  to the right hand  rear door where there are dents.
Our reviewed the remaining charges and felt they were reasonable. She understood Mr Hs 
explanation that the excess mileage was the result of him needing to travel excessively 
during the period in which his agreement was extended. But she noted that hed already 
completed 39,000  miles when the car was originally scheduled to be returned, in July 2018, 
when his mileage  allowance  was 30,000. So she thought it was clear he had already 
exceeded the allowance and she didnt think  there was a reason for VWFS to waive  the 
charge.
She went on to consider  the photographs of the damage to the bumper and the door that 
had been taken by the inspector  when the car was returned. She thought that, in both cases, 
there was clear rippling  of the paintwork and she therefore didnt think VWFS  had been 
wrong to levy charges. 
So the inspector thought VWFS had now done  enough and the charges that remained 
should stand.  But Mr H still didnt  agree.  He explained that this was the third car hed had 
with VWFS  and he expected them  to be more reasonable with him. He asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr H so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN09258012Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired  his car under a hire agreement.  This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it. 
the excess mileage charges
I think these have been applied correctly. At the end of the extended lease period Mr H had 
exceeded his mileage allowance by 8,500 miles.  I dont think there  are reasons for VWFS to 
remove these charges. Mr H has explained  that he travelled excessively during this 
extended period  but hed already completed 9,000 extra miles on the agreement in July 
2018 when it was originally intended the agreement would come  to an end. So I dont think  it 
would be fair to suggest the extension to the lease was the reason  the mileage limit was 
exceeded.
the charges for refurbishment
Mr Hs contract  with VWFS explained  that the car would need to be returned in a satisfactory 
condition and that charges could be made to refurbish the car if there was damage  beyond 
what would  be considered reasonable wear and tear. 
The British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA) provide the industry  guidelines 
on what is to be considered fair wear and tear on a car that is being  returned at the end of its 
lease. So Ive considered the damage  in the inspectors photographs against the BVRLA 
guidance. I think, in both instances, the damage is beyond fair wear and tear. The paintwork 
is rippled so I think the charges have been  fairly  applied.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  to waive  all end of term charges except those 
for refurbishment to the RHR door, bumper and for excess  mileage.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0925801