K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that the compensation offered by Lloyds Bank PLC for mistakes  in handling 
his claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act is insufficient.
background 
In June 2018 Mr C bought  a second  hand  car and within a few weeks  it broke  down. The 
dealer offered to take the car back, but Mr C refused this as he was concerned that he may 
not recover any consequential losses. On 11 July Mr C contacted Lloyds and initiated a 
section 75 claim. This was agreed  on 6 September  and settled  in full on 2 November after 
Mr C had sold the car.
Mr C believed that Lloyds  handling  of his claim in the period up to 22 August was poor and 
he made a complaint. Lloyds apologised and offered him £300 compensation, but he 
rejected this and brought his complaint  to this service. 
I trust both Mr C and Lloyds will understand that I dont propose to rehearse  the details of the 
events of the six weeks which have caused Mr C to complain. These have been set out in Mr 
Cs letter  of complaint of 9 September 2018  and summarised by the investigator in his 
written opinion. 
In essence, Mr C considers the bank delayed matters and left him in limbo, issuing 
automated responses  to his queries. He was paying  for a hire car and not knowing if the 
costs of this and other incidental expenditure would be met caused him stress. He also took 
time off work to visit his local branch and to extend  his car hire.
The investigator noted that the claim was settled  in under eight weeks  and such  claims can 
take some  time to resolve.  However, he concluded  there some unnecessary delays and he 
appreciated the uncertainty as to whether the car hire costs  would  be met would have 
caused some trouble  and upset. 
He accepted the bank  was entitled  to look into any claim carefully, but it didnt  always  meet 
the expectations it had set. Nonetheless  he thought Mr C could have mitigated his losses.  
For example, he couldve  accepted the dealerships offer of a full refund early  on, and still 
pursued the bank  for the consequential losses (which were relatively modest at that time). 
Overall, he thought the moderate award of £300 was fair. Mr C didnt agree and referred to a 
number of decisions made by this service and to the guidance we publish on awards for 
trouble and upset.  Originally he thought £1,500  was an appropriate sum, but moderated this 
to a figure closer to £500.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Mr Cs frustration  I dont think he is entitled to increased compensation. In 
making the section  75 claim he was asking Lloyds to pay a significant sum and it was 
entitled to be satisfied that the claim was merited. Turning round such a claim in eight  weeks  
is not unreasonable. I understand there  was degree  of uncertainty  for a period of time, but 
that is the nature of the system.
Ref: DRN08656922In short,  a claim is made, the bank investigates and decides if it has merit, and if it does a 
payment is agreed. I can see that Mr C wanted the matter settled quickly  and I understand  
that view, especially as he was continuing to incur car hire charges.  I can also see that the 
lack of a meaningful response in the early weeks of his claim caused him concern. 
It is possible that the matter could have been resolved little earlier and the bank  could have 
kept him better informed to allay his fears, but I dont consider it should be held responsible  
for Mr C choosing  to visit a branch or having  to visit the car hire company to extend the hire 
period. I consider the claim was processed  in a reasonable time and the only issue  I have 
with the bank is the lack of information it shared  with Mr C.
Calculating awards  of compensation for trouble and upset  is not a scientific  exercise, and it 
is not our role to punish the bank.  I accept that Mr C has been  caused some trouble and 
upset and that he has spent time pursuing the matter. However, in all the circumstances, I 
think the trouble  and upset suffered by Mr C falls well within  the moderate category and the 
sum offered is more  than reasonable.
my final decision
Lloyds Bank  PLC has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  So my decision is that Lloyds should  pay £300. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0865692