K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyd & Whyte  Ltd sold him a professional indemnity insurance policy 
which wasnt suitable for his needs and as a result  he had to stop trading for a short period 
and has suffered a loss of income  and other  losses.
background
Mr H had indemnity insurance arranged through Lloyd  & Whyte for his professional  practice 
from 2013. In 2017  he received a letter from his professional  association  saying it was aware 
Lloyd & Whyte were  offering policies that no longer provided the comprehensive medical 
malpractice indemnity insurance required  by the regulator (G). It suggested he check to 
make sure his policy had the right cover.  
Mr H said the policy didnt  cover  all he needed as it didnt cover  claims arising  out of the 
failure to recognise  some  specific risks. He said a colleague had been suspended by G 
because of the same issue  with the same policy.
He immediately stopped practising for two weeks while he arranged  new cover. He wants 
Lloyd & Whyte to refund all the premiums  hes paid since 2013, pay him loss of earnings and 
compensation for his and others stress.  Mr H provided an estimate  of the earnings  hed lost 
based on previous  years  earnings.
Lloyd & Whyte said it had looked at other professional indemnity policies, and the limit on 
cover Mr H referred to was a common exclusion.  Once it knew G didnt think  the cover was 
enough it was able to agree an extension of temporary  cover  with the insurer while Mr H 
found a long term insurer. It didnt agree to refund the premiums  since  2013 as it said other 
cover had been provided and during that time Mr H had made a successful claim on the 
policy. It refunded the 2016/17 premium (around £750) as a gesture of goodwill.  It wouldnt  
pay Mr H any lost income as it said the decision to stop practising  was Mr Hs decision and it 
didnt think hed been told to stop by a relevant body.
Our investigator thought Lloyd & Whyte should  pay Mr H £500 compensation in addition  to 
the one year premium  already refunded. She didnt think Lloyd & Whyte  needed  to pay any 
loss of earnings because, although  Mr H did stop practising  and had to cancel appointments, 
it was likely most of these patients were re-booked at a later date. She didnt  think  Mr H had 
provided evidence  of a financial loss. 
Lloyd & Whyte accepted the recommendation but Mr H disagrees. He says:
the proposal doesnt reflect the severity of the situation he was left in;
G took a serious  view of these  issues  another person was suspended for several 
months for not having  the right cover in place;
the policy wasnt fit for purpose and it would have been too risky to continue 
practising without adequate cover; 
Lloyd and Whyte  had a duty of care to someone  in his situation and fell below the 
standard of a reasonably competent  Insurance broker; 
£500 is not a reasonable  amount to compensate for all the stress  and inconvenience 
caused to him;
he would  like a full refund of the premiums he paid for four years insurance  cover and 
compensation for his loss of earnings.  
Ref: DRN02554572my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to carry out his work, Mr H has to have appropriate indemnity insurance cover; if he 
doesnt have adequate  cover hes in breach of his professional requirements and may be at 
risk of being  suspended. So its important for him to have the right cover in place.
When Mr H renewed his insurance, Lloyd & Whytes role was to assess his needs  and find a 
policy that would cover these. Knowing  what his profession was, Lloyd & Whyte  should have 
recommended a policy that met his professional requirements. To do this, it should have got 
enough information from him to assess his needs; considered the policy to ensure it met 
those needs; and advised him about any significant  exclusions. 
In this case, the policy didnt provide all the cover Mr H needed  and Lloyd & Whyte  doesnt 
dispute this. The issue is how to put things  right for Mr H. 
When he realised the policy wasnt suitable, Mr H stopped trading for a couple of weeks  
while he found another policy that was suitable.  I think that was a reasonable step to take.  
Hes aware that someone else in his position  was suspended by G and he wouldnt want  to 
run the risk of that happening to him. 
If Mr H had been advised correctly about  the nature of the cover Im satisfied that he 
wouldnt have taken  out this policy. And so I think its fair that Lloyd & Whyte refund the 
premiums for that year  which it has already done.  
Mr H is also seeking a refund of premiums for the previous years he had cover  through  Lloyd 
& Whyte. As he did have  the benefit  of cover  and made a claim that was covered  I dont 
think it would  be fair to recover all the premiums.
As well as a refund of premiums, Mr H is seeking  compensation  for loss of earnings. He 
says his business was disrupted  and clinics were cancelled for two weeks.  Hes provided a 
breakdown of the income he received during earlier years as a comparison. 
I appreciate that not working for two weeks would  have  had an impact; Mr H didnt see any 
customers during that period. But hes not sure what information he can give to show  losses.  
He thinks most of the customers  who should  have seen him during  those  two weeks  would 
have come back at a later date.  What he says is that he would have missed out on some 
walk in business during  this time. But theres  no detail of how much business he may have 
missed
In view of this, and without any clear evidence, I cant  put a figure on Mr Hs financial loss 
and so I dont  propose  to award any compensation for this.
What I can say is that finding out he didnt have the right cover  in place caused Mr H a lot of 
worry. He was concerned  about being in breach of his professional requirements and was 
put to some  trouble finding another  policy.  It would have  been a shock to discover he didnt 
have the right cover in place. He had to turn work  away  without knowing initially how long 
that would  continue or what  the impact would  be on his business. Hes aware  that someone 
else in the same position was suspended  from practice  and would have been concerned 
about the possible consequences  for him.
Ref: DRN02554573All of these things would have been  worrying for Mr H. But they were resolved quickly  and 
he was working again  after two weeks. I have  to consider what actually happened, not what  
might have happened. Having considered  this carefully, I think  the sum of £500 already 
agreed is a fair sum to compensate him for his distress and inconvenience. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and direct  Lloyd  & Whyte Ltd to pay Mr H 
compensation of £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0255457