K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about Tesco Personal  Finance PLC (Tesco) concerning  a bonus interest 
rate coming to an end. 
Mr H feels that he was not adequately informed that the bonus rate was coming to an end 
and he feels he was disadvantaged by keeping his savings  in the account beyond that date. 
He wants Tesco to compensate him for the interest he would have received  had the rate 
gone on for longer. 
background
In January 2013 Mr H opened an internet saver account with Tesco  and deposited a 
significant sum of money. 
Terms and conditions were sent to Mr H with an account opening letter. 
This account operated a bonus  interest  rate which paid to Mr H a sum of bonus  interest in 
January 2014,  on the anniversary of the account opening. 
Mr H closed that account shortly after the anniversary of the account  opening,  and opened a 
new internet saver account, into which he deposited  his funds. 
Mr H held that second internet saver account until August 2015, when he closed it and 
opened a third internet saver account with Tesco. He again  received terms and conditions 
and a welcome letter on opening his account.  
A bonus interest rate operated on this account  too, for a period of 12 months  from the date 
of opening the account. 
In August  2016,  Mr H received a payment for bonus  interest. He left his account open  until 
April 2018, and continued to receive usual interest on his savings. 
In April 2018, Mr H complained to Tesco. He said that he had not been informed that the 
bonus rate was coming to an end in August 2016,  and so he had been disadvantaged by 
keeping his savings  in the account beyond this time, without the bonus interest rate 
continuing. 
He requested that Tesco pay him compensation equivalent to the bonus interest that he felt 
he had lost. 
Tesco wrote  to Mr H with its final response in May 2018. 
Tesco set out that the bonus  interest rate was fixed for a period of 12 months and that this 
was made  clear to Mr H at the time he opened the account. It also confirmed that Mr H was 
included in a mailing sent out in May 2016, which reminded  customers  that the bonus rate 
was coming to an end in August. 
Tesco therefore did not uphold Mr Hs complaint, but credited him with £25 as a goodwill 
gesture.
Ref: DRN07865682Mr H was not happy with that outcome and contacted us. He explained that he had not 
received any letters  about the end of the bonus  rate and that he would not have overlooked  
that information had he received it. 
One of our adjudicators has thoroughly looked  into this matter  and has set out her view to 
the parties. This was that there was no evidence  that Tesco had done anything  wrong,  and 
that the adjudicator was satisfied that Mr H was sufficiently aware of the bonus interest being 
only for a period of 12 months,  having held similar  accounts for this period  before. She 
therefore did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
Mr H did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have had particular  regard to the information published by Tesco at the time Mr H opened  
the account in question  and his previous accounts,  the terms and conditions, and the 
information on the closing statements he had received in 2014.
These documents make clear that bonus interest  rates will be fixed for a period  and that the 
period is not indefinite. The closing  statement  Mr H had previously received (on his first 
internet saver account) made clear that bonus  interest would be paid at the end of the bonus 
period. The bonus interest  was then paid at 12 months and this seemingly  prompted  Mr H to 
close that account and open  a new account with a new bonus interest period. 
I note that Mr H does not think  the duration  of the bonus rate of the account  he opened in 
2015 was pointed out to him sufficiently,  but I agree with the adjudicators considered  view 
that Tesco had consistently given sufficient  information to Mr H through its terms, published 
literature and reminder letter. 
I accept that Mr H did not receive the letter reminding him of the end of the bonus period, but 
Tesco has provided  evidence that it was sent.  It is sufficient for Tesco  to ensure  that 
correspondence is sent and I would not expect a business to confirm  receipt of a reminder, 
when that reminder  was in addition to other information being provided. 
Finally, I agree with the adjudicators view that, on balance, it is likely that Mr H was aware 
that the bonus rate was ending, having  previously  had similar accounts, with bonus interest  
rates fixed  for 12 months, which Mr H closed after the relevant bonus rates had ended.  
As a result, whilst I realise this will be disappointing to Mr H, I do not think  that there is 
evidence of Tesco doing anything wrong  and I do not ask it to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold this complaint and do not ask Tesco  Personal  
Finance PLC to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Ref: DRN07865683Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0786568