K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs K complained that they were  mis-sold  a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Nemo Personal Finance Limited  (Nemo).
background
Ive attached my provisional decision from January 2020, which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I proposed  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks 
complaint. I invited Nemo  and Mr and Mrs K to send in any further  comments or evidence 
they wanted me to consider by 13 February 2020,  before I reached a final decision. Both 
responded before that date. Mr and Mrs K said they had nothing  further  to add. Nemo  sent in 
a response to say that it had nothing further to add, and accepted the complaint should be 
upheld.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither Nemo nor Mr and Mrs K 
provided further evidence or arguments for consideration, and Nemo has accepted  that the 
complaint should  be upheld,  Ive no reason to change the conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision. So I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
what the business needs  to do
Nemo should put Mr and Mrs K in the financial position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken 
out PPI. Mr and Mrs K borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan is bigger than it 
shouldve been.  And theyve been  paying more  than they shouldve each month. So Mr and 
Mrs K need  to get back the extra theyve paid and start paying what  they shouldve  been 
paying all along.  
The policy term has expired. So, Nemo should:
 Change the amount Mr and Mrs K have left to pay on the loan so their payments 
are the same as they would be without PPI.
 Work out and pay Mr and Mrs K the difference between what they paid each month 
on the loan and what they wouldve paid each  month without PPI.
 Add simple  interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs K paid each month from when 
they paid it until they get it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
 Show Mr and Mrs K how it worked this out and the amount they still owe. And show  
Mr and Mrs K how much their future payments will be.
 If Mr and Mrs K made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nemo can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes  them.
 Nemo can also deduct from the redress shown any cashback amount already 
repaid to Mr and Mrs K in relation  to this PPI policy.
Ref: DRN04132142 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Nemo to take off tax from this interest. Nemo  must give Mr and 
Mrs K a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
Nemo Personal Finance  Limited should  pay them the compensation Ive described. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2020.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN04132143COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs K complained that they were mis-sold  a loan payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  by 
Nemo Personal Finance  Limited (Nemo).
background
Mr and Mrs K took out a loan in July 2005 with Nemo.  The loan was taken out through  a broker, and 
Nemo and the broker have each said that the other was responsible for the sale of the PPI. Mr and 
Mrs K have complained  that, as Mr K (the insured)  was self-employed, he wouldnt  have been able to 
claim on the policy. 
This was a single premium PPI policy, so the cost (£5,727.50) was added to the loan of £29,000 and 
was repayable, with interest, over the fifteen-year term (although the policy provided cover for only 
five years). 
Nemo did not send in a copy  of the policy, but we have  a Nemo policy document  dated February  2005 
in our records, and I think its reasonable to consider this most likely applied to Mr and Mrs Ks sale.  
From the information I have,  the policy provided life, accident and sickness cover for Mr K only. If hed 
made a successful claim for unemployment or accident or sickness, the policy wouldve covered  the 
loan repayments for up to 12 months per claim.  
I also note that the policy includes a cash back provision,  whereby 50% of the premium could be 
paid back at the end of the five-year term where  the loan was still in force and no claim  had been 
made. I do not have confirmation of whether such a payment was made  in Mr and Mrs Ks case. 
Another ombudsman  at this service considered  the arguments  and evidence submitted by all the 
parties, and determined that Nemo was responsible  for the sale of the PPI and therefore was also 
responsible for answering  Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Our adjudicator went on to issue his assessment 
saying that Mr and Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld.  
Nemo has reiterated its argument that it did not sell the PPI, and has sent in further information  from 
its records. As a result,  the complaint has been passed  to me to determine. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Having reviewed  all of the evidence  afresh, I am minded to agree  with my colleague that Nemo sold 
the PPI, and to conclude that Mr and Mrs Ks complaint should  be upheld. Ill explain why.
The parties  have submitted various documents relating to this sale. I have copies of the initial loan 
application form that was submitted through the broker, along with a screenshot  of the brokers 
account notes. I also have, from Nemo, copies of an underwriting checklist,  account notes, computer 
records, the credit  agreement  and a list of transactions. Nemo also sent in a spreadsheet  entry 
showing a commission amount that it said was paid to the broker. Mr and Mrs K sent in a list of 
disbursements from the loan. All parties have sent in their recollection of the sequence of events. 
The loan application  form carries the brokers  branding.  It includes Mr and Mrs Ks employment 
details and information about  their property.  There  is a section  on the form headed loan 
requirements which shows  the amount  they wanted to borrow (£29,000), the term required,  and the 
Ref: DRN04132144purpose, which was debt consolidation. This section also refers to payment protection, with tick boxes 
for single or joint cover.  This part of the form is blank  and neither box is ticked. The form isnt dated, 
but the broker  said it received  Mr and Mrs Ks loan application on 1 June 2005. I think its reasonable 
to take this as the first piece of paperwork  completed by Mr and Mrs K  and theres nothing to 
suggest that they wanted PPI at this early stage. 
The broker said it placed the loan with Nemo on 5 July 2005. By placed  I take it to mean  that the 
broker obtained Nemos agreement in principle to Mr and Mrs Ks loan. Nemos account  records show 
an agreement date of 1 July, and the underwriting  checklist refers to a credit reference  agency search  
on the same  date. There is no information about  PPI at this point, and, although  the dates  differ by 
four days, I dont consider  this significant in relation to this complaint  and its possible  there may 
have been discussions  between the broker and the lender  on both dates. 
The broker then said that it submitted a fully completed loan pack  to Nemo  including a signed credit 
agreement without  PPI  on 21 July 2005. It could  not provide  a copy  of the paperwork it submitted,  
but the date is as stated on the brokers account notes. The account notes  further record that Nemo 
received the loan pack  on 22 July, and Nemos own records state  the same  date. The credit 
agreement before me  which  does include PPI  was then signed by Nemo on 25 July, and the loan 
was drawn down on 26 July. I dont have a date of signature by Mr and Mrs K.
The brokers  account notes show two entries on 22 July (which was a Friday), timed at 4.09pm and 
4.42pm respectively. The first one says that an email had been received from Nemo saying that all 
Nemo needed to do was the telephone  checks (a security  call, sometimes referred  to as a speak 
with). The second  entry  states that the broker had spoken to a member of staff at Nemo,  who had 
said in turn that he had spoken to Mrs K and offered  PPI which she had accepted. The entry  further 
says that apparently the loan would be completed  on the following Monday and then redeemed  
immediately, to be replaced  by a new loan with PPI. The broker then said that the revised  credit 
agreement was returned  on 27 July, and the loan completed, although there is no relevant  entry on 
the account notes and I cannot see that this can be correct  as the loan completed on 26 July. 
However, Nemo  argued that the PPI had been sold by the broker. It said that, as the security call took 
place late in the day, and after the post had been collected, it would not have been possible for a new 
credit agreement (with PPI) to be issued  on 22 July (the Friday) and returned in time for the 
agreement to be signed  on 25 July (Monday)  and completed  the following  day. Nemo  also said that it 
paid commission on the PPI to the broker, which  it would  not have done had it sold the PPI itself, and 
that the documents did not show any record of PPI being  upsold. It further said that its records 
clearly showed a single loan account, under one account number,  which would not have  been the 
case had a loan without PPI been redeemed  and immediately replaced by a loan with PPI. 
Ive looked at the documents that Nemo sent in. It could not provide a recording of the security call as 
it had happened so long ago. The first entry  on its account notes  is dated 25 July  when  it confirmed 
with Mr Ks accountants that they did indeed  prepare his accounts. We asked Nemo whether it could 
provide records  of its contact with the broker and Mr and Mrs K before 25 July, but it could not. So I 
have no information from Nemo about the content of the security  call on 22 July. I also note that 
Nemos computer records do not show anything to suggest a loan being redeemed and reopened. 
Turning to Nemos underwriting checklist, I can see that it is dated  22 July 2005,  but refers  to a credit  
reference check  on 1 July (which I mentioned earlier). There are several  items listed as having  to be 
checked as confirmed or received, with boxes alongside  containing ticks and crosses as appropriate. 
Some of these items are dated, these dates being 22 July, 25 July and 27 July, which  are consistent  
with the timescales already stated. However,  I note that the boxes alongside the headings  PPI first 
named and PPI benefits/exclusions contain crosses  and it seems to me most likely that that these 
boxes would have been ticked if the application had had PPI attached when it reached the 
underwriter. We asked  Nemo about this but have not received any further information. 
I have also considered the timescales  Nemo said it was impossible for a new agreement  to have 
been sent out and returned in time for completion  on 26 July The entries  on the agreement  are 
Ref: DRN04132145handwritten, so there is no computer printed  date and time stamp, but Nemos underwriting checklist 
shows the conversation with Mr and Mrs K as happening at 4.10pm, and this is consistent  with the 
brokers account notes. Nemo said that its post had already been collected, so a revised agreement 
couldnt have been sent out until the Monday.  However,  in my experience businesses will send out 
documents individually where good customer service requires it  and as Mr and Mrs K were 
consolidating eight different debts it seems likely that they would have been feeling some financial 
pressure and thus be keen  to get the loan completed as soon  as possible.  So I dont think its 
necessarily the case that the timescales are impossible  here.
Nemo also argued  that it paid commission to the broker and provided what  looks like a spreadsheet 
entry to support this. The spreadsheet showed a single amount, calculated  as a percentage of the 
loan (not including the PPI premium). We asked for more information and Nemo  said that it paid 
commission of a certain percentage of the loan for PPI and a further percentage of the loan for the 
borrowing. I should say that I have no information from the broker about  this. It seems rather unusual 
that commission on PPI should be calculated  as a percentage  of the loan amount rather than the 
premium amount. 
I have also taken  into account what Mr and Mrs K remember about the transaction. Mrs K said that 
she didnt remember a great deal, but didnt recall discussing PPI with the broker  she said she 
thought its role was just to find the loan. She said she had a vague recollection of PPI being 
discussed during the call from Nemo, and she also recalled some mention  of the cashback offer.
This is a difficult  case  to decide, as I have incomplete information,  some of which is contradictory.  
However, looking at the contemporaneous documentary evidence  in particular  the brokers  account 
notes and Nemos underwriting checklist, I consider it more likely than not that Nemo sold the PPI. 
Mrs Ks recollections are not conclusive in themselves, but are consistent  with the brokers  account 
notes in that they refer to the discussion with her in which  PPI was sold.  The underwriting checklist 
doesnt show  PPI as Ive noted above. I have carefully considered Nemos arguments but I dont think  
they are enough to outweigh the evidence from the documents as Ive explained. 
As I have concluded that Nemo most  likely  sold the PPI in this case, I have also considered the merits  
of Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
I have no information about whether Mr and Mrs K were advised to take the PPI or were provided  with 
information about it. However, this doesnt affect my provisional decision.
Having looked at the policy terms, I am satisfied that Mr K wouldnt  have found it any more difficult to 
claim as a self-employed person than he would if hed been employed. However, had Mr and Mrs K 
cancelled the policy early,  the premium refund due would  not have been proportionate to the amount 
paid  the policy document I have shows that the refund  after 12 months would  be 13% of the 
premium, with the refund reducing  further after that. Mr and Mrs K were  consolidating a number of 
debts into the loan with Nemo, and, given the likelihood of consumers who are refinancing  to do so 
again in the future, I would expect this to be explained. 
As Ive mentioned, the PPI policy term was five years, whereas the loan was granted  over 15 years.  
Whilst the term was stated  on the credit agreement (albeit  in relatively small print), I would expect  the 
implications to have been explained  for example Mr and Mrs K would  be paying  interest on the PPI 
premium amount over the whole  term of the loan, and if they had wanted to continue  cover,  they may 
have had to borrow more, or alternatively  pay a monthly premium while still paying the interest on the 
initial premium. In addition, any health condition that arose  during the life of the first policy would-be 
unlikely to be covered under  a new policy. 
I have no information about how the policy was explained to Mr and Mrs K  but Im not satisfied they 
wouldve taken the PPI if theyd been properly  informed about the policy terms. As a result Im minded  
to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and to require  Nemo to put things right.  
Ref: DRN04132146fair compensation
Nemo should  put Mr and Mrs K in the financial position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken  out PPI. 
Mr and Mrs K borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan is bigger  than it shouldve  been. And 
theyve been paying more  than they shouldve each month.  So Mr and Mrs K need  to get back  the 
extra theyve paid and start paying what they shouldve been  paying all along. 
The policy term has expired. So, Nemo should:
 Change  the amount Mr and Mrs K have left to pay on the loan so their payments  are the 
same as they would  be without  PPI.
 Work out and pay Mr and Mrs K the difference  between what  they paid each month on the 
loan and what they wouldve  paid each month without  PPI.
 Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs K paid each month from when they paid 
it until they get it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
 Show Mr and Mrs K how it worked this out and the amount they still owe. And show Mr and 
Mrs K how much their future payments will be.
 If Mr and Mrs K made a successful  claim under the PPI policy, Nemo can take off what they 
got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.
 Nemo can also deduct from the redress shown any cashback amount already repaid  to Mr 
and Mrs K in relation to this PPI policy.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nemo  to take off tax from this interest. Nemo  must give Mr and 
Mrs K a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I propose to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint,  and to require  Nemo 
Personal Finance Limited to pay them the compensation Ive described. 
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0413214