K821x#15complaint
Mrs N has complained to Integrity IFA Ltd that, when it ceased to be her financial adviser  in 
November 20128, it, nevertheless, continued to receive fees from her insurers  even  though 
she intended to appoint a new adviser.  She questions why Integrity didnt notify  the insurers 
that it should no longer receive  these  fees and continued to accept them  in breach of 
Financial Conduct  Authority regulations.
Furthermore, Integrity passed  her personal details to another advisory firm in November 
2018 against her wishes  and she has reported  this as a breach of data protection  laws to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Mrs N has requested Integrity to return any fees it received from the insurers  since 
November 2018  when it confirmed to her that it could no longer act as her adviser.
background
Integrity has failed to respond  to our request in August 2019 for its file of its dealings with 
Mrs N since November 2018.  Neither has Integrity issued Mrs N a final response letter 
since she complained  in March 2019.
Accordingly, one of our investigators considered Mrs Ns complaint based  on the evidence 
she alone had provided and felt that it should be upheld. Briefly, she said that:
Integritys failure to comply with our request for its file and evidence  of its dealings  
with Mrs N since November 2018  was in breach of Financial Conduct Authority 
Dispute Resolution rule 3.5.11 and Part XVI, section  231 of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act  2000;
Integrity had written to Mrs N to notify her that it would no longer  be able to offer her 
ongoing financial advice  from 16 November 2018.  It also suggested that her personal 
details and responsibility for providing  ongoing advice should pass  to another  named 
advisory firm. Mrs N didnt give her consent for this firm to become  her adviser and 
confirmed that she wished to appoint her own adviser;
The adviser recommended by Integrity subsequently wrote to Mrs N introducing itself 
even though Mrs N had specifically requested Integrity not to pass her personal 
details to this firm;
Integrity continued to receive fee payments between November 2018 and April 2019 
of approximately  £850 from insurers with whom Mrs N held policies for which  
Integrity no longer  acted as the servicing agent.
Therefore, unless Integrity can provide  evidence to the contrary, it should  compensate  Mrs N 
by:
reimbursing her all fees it received from insurers between 24 November 2018 and 
1 April 2019 plus;
interest on each payment at eight per annum  simple from the date it was paid to the 
date of settlement;
£250 for the trouble  and upset Mrs N has suffered in this matter and for the breach 
of data protection rules.
    
In response, Mrs N accepted the investigators view.
Ref: DRN04370402As we have  received no response  from Integrity since  March  2020, the complaint has been  
referred to me for review.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Integrity  has failed  to provide  any evidence of its dealings with Mrs N since November 
2018, I have based my decision  on the information provided by her.
Mrs N and her husband  have each complained about policies they held individually and 
jointly which  have been dealt with as separate cases.
Its evident that Integrity did write  to its clients, including Mrs N, on 23 November 2018, 
advising that, with effect  from 16 November, it could  no longer provide her ongoing service 
and advice. It confirmed  it had arranged for another firm to take responsibility  for servicing  
her investments, and that this firm would be writing to her shortly  to explain more  about the 
services it offered.
Integrity did explain that, if Mrs N did not wish for her ongoing  service  and personal data to 
be automatically transferred to this firm, she should let Integrity know  as soon as possible. 
Mrs Ns husband emailed  Integrity in November 2018  to confirm that he didnt give consent 
for their (his and Mrs Ns) ongoing service  and personal data to be transferred to this firm. 
Integrity acknowledged that both Mrs N and Mrs N had made  this request and updated  its 
record to confirm that neither of them wished to transfer servicing right to this new  adviser. 
It did, however, confirm that this adviser had already posted a welcome  letter to them.
In these circumstances, Integrity wasnt entitled  to retain fees from insurers  in respect of 
investments held by Mrs N for which it now ceased  to be the servicing agent.
Under Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  Conduct  of Business (COBS) Rule 6.1A.5: 
A firm may receive  an adviser  charge that is no longer payable (for example, after the 
service it is received in payment for have  been amended or terminated) provided the firm 
refunds any such payment to the retail client .
So, given its evident Integrity notified  Mrs N that it would cease to provide her an ongoing 
advisory service from 16 November 2018,  any fees it received from her insurers  since that 
date should be refunded  to her.
I do think, however,  that any compensation for trouble and upset to which  Mrs N has been 
put in this matter  should be shared with her husband and this has been awarded in the 
decision Ive made  over their joint complaint.
Ref: DRN04370403decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
I require Integrity IFA Ltd to reimburse  her the fees it received from insurers between 
16 November 2018 and 1 April 2019  in respect  of policies held by Mrs N for which  it was the 
servicing agent before 16 November 2018,  plus interest on these sums  at the rate of eight  
per cent per annum simple from the date of each  payment was received to the date of 
settlement.
It seems  a fee of £21 was received by the new  adviser  and this should be reimbursed  to 
Mrs N by Integrity IFA Ltd as well, as it seems  that it had passed her personal detail to the 
new adviser against her wishes.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0437040