K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs A bought a regular premium MPPI policy in June 1994 alongside a mortgage. 
The policy covered Mr A only against unemployment,  accidents and sickness.
Mr and Mrs A say they were told by Lloyds that they needed the PPI policy.  They say it was 
explained very sketchily to them. They think Lloyds mis-sold it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
Lloyds say it cant be sure where  the policy was sold. Mr and Mrs A say it was sold in a 
meeting in a branch. So as Mr and Mrs A have been  able to recall where it was sold, I will 
proceed that this was the case. 
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mr and Mrs As complaint because of the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs A say they were told they needed the policy  and were not given a choice 
to have it.
I acknowledge what Mr and Mrs A have  said about this. I cant  be sure exactly what 
was discussed  between Mr and Mrs A and Lloyds when the policy  was sold. Im also 
mindful that the sale took place many  years ago, and that detailed  recollections of 
what happened can fade over time.
Lloyds hasnt provided much documentation  from the time the policy was sold. Thats  
not surprising  given the time thats passed,  and its similar  to some  other cases  Ive 
seen. 
Without anything  else to support what Mr and Mrs A have told me, and based  on 
what I know of sales conducted  by Lloyds during that time, I cant safely  conclude 
that Lloyds didnt make them aware that the policy was optional  and that they chose 
to have it. 
Moving on, Lloyds  has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs A during the 
meeting and so, as this puts additional  responsibilities on the business,  I will proceed 
that this was the case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs A, it had to 
Ref: DRN02055682ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable for Mr As needs as the policy 
holder. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy  was 
unsuitable for Mr A based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr A 
says he would have  been able to use his 6 months full sick pay along with an 
additional insurance policy after a 6 month deferment period (although  
understandably due to the time that has passed, it has been difficult to get further  
information about this policy).  But the MPPI policy would have paid in addition  to any 
provisions he would  have had and for longer. So the benefit  would have been of use 
to Mr A during a difficult time as he could have used his provisions to pay for other 
expenses. I think, on balance,  Mr and Mrs A had a need for this cover based on his 
circumstances at the date of sale,  for any extended period of unemployment  or 
sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant  or limiting term 
that would  make  the policy  unsuitable for him either.
Lloyds has provided some information about  the costs  relating to the MPPI policy  that 
Mr and Mrs A took out but even though it has provided information detailing the cover  
and how much it cost, I cannot  be sure that these costs were disclosed  to Mr and Mrs 
A in a clear  and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were disclosed 
clearly I dont think Mr and Mrs A would have done anything  different and decided  
against having the policy for the reasons  that I have already  given for the policy being 
suitable.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs A wouldve been  affected by any of these.
This has been a difficult decision to make and I understand  this will come as a 
disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 November  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0205568