K822xcomplaint
Miss M is unhappy with the way Fairmead  Insurance Limited handled a claim for water 
damage under her home  insurance policy.
background 
Miss M made a claim to Fairmead  after her shower  tray overflowed.  Fairmead  appointed  a 
contractor to carry out repairs. The contractor caused raw sewage  to escape into Miss Ms 
home. 
Miss M and her family had to move  into a hotel for about four months. She complained  to 
Fairmead about the way her claim had been  handled. Fairmead agreed that there should 
have been better communication  between  its suppliers  and Miss M. It also accepted  that 
thered been delays  in paying Miss M a disturbance allowance while  shed been  staying in 
the hotel. It apologised for the fact that Miss M and her two grandsons  had been sleeping  in 
one hotel room  for much  of the time. It offered Miss M £720 compensation for this.
As Miss M didnt  think that was enough, she brought her complaint to this service.  She also 
wanted Fairmead to pay £1,200 for some further  works to her bathroom because she wasnt  
happy with the way some of the work  had been  carried out. Our investigator upheld  her 
complaint in part. He thought Fairmead  should pay her an additional £780 compensation and 
appoint an independent surveyor to inspect Miss Ms bathroom to see whether there was 
any outstanding  damage.
As Miss M didnt  agree, the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has clearly been through a very difficult  and distressing time. What  started  off as a 
very small, straightforward claim ended up with her having to move out of her home  for 
about four months due to the negligence of Fairmeads contractor.  In addition to the 
inconvenience of having to move  out of her home,  it would have been distressing to find her 
home had been  contaminated. So that was a specific failing on the part of Fairmead for 
which I can award compensation.
I can see that Miss M was constantly having  to chase  Fairmead  for payment of the 
disturbance allowance due to her. This would have been stressful for Miss M and shouldnt  
have been necessary. She also wasnt kept informed  of progress as she should have been.
Miss M originally told Fairmead  that she needed accommodation for herself  and a grandson  
in a specific location. It found a hotel room suitable  for two persons. When  Fairmead became 
aware Miss M had two grandsons staying with her, it tried unsuccessfully  to find a larger 
room or connecting rooms  in the hotel.  I appreciate  that Miss M would have  been  
uncomfortable in the hotel  but I dont think its Fairmeads fault that the accommodation 
wasnt suitable for them.
I appreciate that Miss M has indicated that the compensation  proposed by our investigator is 
insufficient to reflect  the distress  that has been caused to her by Fairmead in this matter. 
Ref: DRN04740672However taking into account  the circumstances of this complaint, my view is that a 
compensation sum of a further  £780 is reasonable and in line with other awards  made by 
this service. 
In situations where  its alleged  that repair work has been completed to a poor standard,  I 
think its fair that the insurer  should be given an opportunity  to reinspect the works and if 
necessary, put things  right. I dont think Fairmead  has treated Miss M unfairly  by saying that 
it wants to appoint an independent surveyor to assess what, if any, works  are outstanding 
rather than pay the amount  of her quote  without any investigation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Fairmead  Insurance Limited  to pay Miss M £780 
(in addition  to the £720 already paid) for the trouble  and upset its caused her. It should  also 
appoint an independent surveyor to assess whether any further  work  is required to her home 
as a result  of the claim and the works carried out by Fairmeads contractor.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0474067