K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that Experian Limited recorded  a county court  judgment (CCJ) in his credit 
file incorrectly.
background 
In June 2016 Experian recorded two CCJs in Mr Gs credit  file in error. They  were  against a 
relative living at the same  address. In 2018  Mr G applied for a new job, but was rejected 
because of his credit record. He was able to explain to his prospective employer that the 
CCJs werent his and a fresh offer was made a month later.  He also says he was turned 
down for a mortgage as a result of the errors.
Experian apologised and paid Mr G compensation of £150 plus a years free membership, 
and subsequently increased  this to £500.  He brought his complaint  to this service  where  it 
was considered by one of our investigators who didnt  think  Experian need  do more.
Experian explained that it was reliant on millions of items of data supplied by third parties  
and the information about Mr Gs relative  didnt give a date of birth which  caused  the mix up. 
The investigator noted Mr G had been caused distress and inconvenience  in that his dream 
job was put at risk. But this had been resolved after a month and the credit  file had been 
amended.
He also noted  that Mr G had been  told by an adviser that he had been rejected for a 
mortgage. However, it seems that his credit  file reflected some  poor credit  history of his own 
and so the investigator couldnt say that the declined application had been  caused by the 
error.
He concluded  that the £500 offered by Experian  was fair. Mr G didnt agree and said he had 
incurred £200  for services  he didnt receive and he had suffered significant distress  which  
should be adequately compensated. The investigator asked for details of the services Mr G 
hadnt received,  but didnt get a response. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr G must have been truly upset when he was turned down for his 
dream job and had to wait a month while the problem was resolved. However, it was 
remedied by Experian  and his credit file was amended and in the end he did get the job he 
wanted.
I dont believe he lost out financially as a result  of the errors given he was able to continue in 
his old job while the mistake was dealt with. I also note that Experian has no record of any 
detailed searches in connection with a mortgage  and I have  seen no evidence that he was 
turned down for a new mortgage  as a result of the erroneous CCJ entries. 
Therefore I think the £500 paid by Experian is fair and reasonable. I dont believe he is 
entitled to compensation for the possibility another mistake may be made. I can only address 
events that have occurred. As Experian has already paid the compensation I dont think it 
need take any further action.
Ref: DRN08463212my final decision
My final decision is that Experian  Limited has made  a fair offer.  I understand that the bank 
has already paid Mr G £500  compensation. But if it hasnt, it should pay Mr G that sum if he 
accepts this decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to 
ask Mr G to accept or reject  my decision before 3 February 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0846321