K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds)  mis-sold  him fee-paying  packaged 
bank accounts.  He says that he was barely solvent and when he went  to Lloyds to obtain an 
overdraft, he was led to believe  that he could not have an overdraft on his fee-free account 
and that hed have to take out a packaged  bank account instead.
background
Mr Hs account history  is as follows:
Fee-free account opened  15 November 1996
Upgraded to a fee-paying Gold Service account 13 September 2001
Upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account 25 May 2005
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier account  9 January 2007
Downgraded to a fee-paying Platinum  account  25 April 2007
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier account  10 March 2009
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  that the packaged accounts 
had been mis-sold. Mr H disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans decision on his 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive taken this into account 
when considering Mr Hs complaint.
I think it might help to explain that where  matters are in dispute, as they are here, I have to 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on everything that Mr H and 
Lloyds have said and provided. And Ive started by thinking about whether Mr H was given a 
fair choice  in choosing to take out his packaged bank accounts.
Mr H has said that he was led to believe that he had to have a fee-paying packaged  bank 
account to get an overdraft. Because of how long ago the first packaged account was sold to 
Mr H, unfortunately Lloyds only has limited information available  from the time. But it has 
been able to provide bank statements from the time which show that Mr H was charged a £5 
overdraft usage  fee and £1.38 of overdraft interest on 10 September  2001.  
Lloyds has also provided customer  notes dated 11 September 2001 saying that it had 
quoted Mr H for a £10,000 personal loan to purchase a car. The notes dated  13 September  
2001 say: 1468 Gold Saver   Annual  Interest  nnew gold saver opened and account 
converted to gold service re loan completed  on 110901.  
The bank statements suggest that Mr H was using an overdraft on his account before he 
agreed to upgrade to the Gold Service account.  So Im not persuaded by his recollections  
that he was led to believe he had to upgrade to be able to have an overdraft. 
Ref: DRN04206532The notes that Lloyds has provided from the time suggest that the main  reason why Mr H 
agreed to the Gold Service  account  was not related  to overdrafts, as Mr H remembers, but 
because he had applied  for a loan to buy a car and by agreeing to the Gold  Service account, 
hed be able to get a lower rate of interest  on it. And although Mr Hs overdraft limit has 
changed over the years,  I can see that it was not necessarily changed at the same time that 
he was sold his packaged accounts (for example it was changed on 3 June 2003, 
4 July 2003 and 22 February 2006). So I think Mr H was generally aware that he didnt have 
to apply for a packaged account each  time he wanted to increase his overdraft  facility.  
Mr H has said that he would never have agreed  to a packaged account and that he wouldve 
saved thousands  had he not been misled by Lloyds.  Mr H has also said that as its widely  
known that packaged bank accounts  were mis-sold, then the chances are what  he says 
happened is more  likely  to have been  the case.
However, whilst  I have  considered what Mr H has said,  I have to make my decision based 
on the specific circumstances  of this case and the evidence that is available. And I can see 
that Mr H has agreed to upgrade his account  four times over the years  hes had the 
accounts and engaged  with some of the benefits  they came with. Mr H even called Lloyds to 
upgrade for a second time to the Premier  account in March  2009, having previously 
downgraded his account from the Premier package to the cheaper Platinum package  in 
2007. 
Given all of this, Im not persuaded that Mr Hs actions are consistent  with someone who 
didnt want a packaged account and only agreed  to it because he was misled into thinking he 
had to have one to obtain an overdraft. On the contrary, the evidence I have seen indicates 
that Mr H was using  an overdraft before he agreed to the first packaged account and that he 
agreed to the various packaged accounts because he was attracted to the benefit(s)  they 
provided. So I think he was given a fair choice when deciding  whether to upgrade his 
account or not.
Lloyds recommended the accounts to Mr H. This meant it had to make sure the accounts 
were a good fit for Mr Hs circumstances  at the time.
Gold Service
When the Gold Service account was sold to Mr H, he took out a Gold  Service  loan which  
meant he received  a preferential rate of interest  on the loan, and he benefitted from the 
Gold Service overdraft benefit  which at the time was £100 interest free overdraft with 
preferential interest rates  on balances overdrawn by more than that amount. And I 
understand that Mr H occasionally travelled, so he couldve  also made use of the worldwide  
travel insurance that came with the account. So I think recommending the Gold  Service 
account to Mr H was not unreasonable as this was the cheapest  account  it offered with 
those benefits.  
Platinum 
When Mr Hs account was upgraded from Gold  Service to the Platinum account there is a 
phone note dated 25 May 2005 which says that Mr H agreed to upgrade so that he could  
add winter sports cover to his travel  insurance.  And the main difference at the time between 
the two accounts  was that the Platinum included winter sports  cover  on the travel insurance,  
as well as enhanced breakdown cover and a £250  interest free overdraft with preferential 
interest rates on balances  overdrawn by more than that amount. 
Ref: DRN04206533I understand Mr H had claimed on the breakdown cover in September  2004 and was 
regularly using his overdraft up to near his £1,000 limit at the time. So Mr H was able to 
benefit from the enhanced  benefits  provided  by the Platinum  account. And I understand that 
Mr H registered a phone under the mobile phone insurance on 8 June 2005 as well, so he 
was able to make use of this benefit  too. I therefore  dont think  Lloydss recommendation 
was unreasonable in the circumstances.
Premier
When the Premier account  was sold to Mr H it provided winter sports and family travel cover. 
It also provided identity theft protection, slightly enhanced  breakdown cover, home  
emergency cover and a £500 interest free overdraft facility  with preferential interest rates on 
overdrawn balances beyond that amount. This was in addition to the mobile phone 
insurance and card protection that came with the Platinum account. 
The notes from the time suggest that Mr H agreed to upgrade  his account to Premier so that 
he could get home emergency cover. And the Premier account  was the cheapest  account  to 
provide this particular  range of benefits. 
I also note that Mr H only held the account until 25 April 2007.  And in the short time he held 
the Premier account  he was charged  £15 per month  which  was the same  cost as the 
Platinum account  at the time. So I think its likely Mr H agreed to the Premier account 
because he was offered  an initial discount  on the monthly fee and then reverted his account  
back to the Platinum before the price  was due to increase  to the full cost of £25 per month.  
And as I think the Platinum account  was appropriate  for Mr H, I see no reason  why the 
Premier account wouldve been  inappropriate for Mr H given that he wasnt  charged any 
more for it.
Mr H later agreed to upgrade back to the Premier  account on 10 March  2009. The notes that 
are available suggest that he agreed  to it for the travel insurance  which  included  family and 
winter sports  cover as well. And as Mr H has said that he occasionally  went on winter sports 
trips and looks to have  had a family  by then, I think the recommendation was reasonable  
particularly as by that stage Mr H had held two different types of packaged accounts that 
were cheaper and Mr H had previously downgraded his account.  So Mr H was clearly 
attracted to the benefits it came  with.
I appreciate that Mr H might not have needed  all of the benefits that came with each 
package. But as the accounts are sold as a package, Mr H was unable to pick and choose 
what they came with. So whilst Mr H might  not have  needed everything that came with the 
accounts, this on its own doesnt mean the accounts  were mis-sold to Mr H.
As well as making sure the accounts  were right for Mr H, Lloyds also had to give Mr H 
important information  about the accounts  to ensure he understood what  he was agreeing  to. 
Mr H has said that he was aware of the account  benefits and the monthly fees. And he has 
engaged with a number  of the benefits over the years   so its clear  he was given  some  
information about each packaged account  when he agreed to them. 
I accept its possible that Mr H might  not have  been  given all of the information he shouldve  
been during each packaged account  sale. But Ive not seen anything  that makes  me think he 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to them had he been given  more  information about 
them.
Ref: DRN04206534So taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that the packaged accounts were  mis-
sold. I therefore dont  think it would be appropriate  to require Lloyds to refund Mr H the 
accounts fees as he has requested.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0420653