K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  about OneSavings Bank  plc (trading as Kent Reliance). Mrs L says a 
number of mistakes have been  made  including sending correspondence  to the wrong  
address and putting funds into the wrong bonds.
background
When Mrs Ls bonds matured she moved the funds into easy  access  accounts, whilst 
deciding where  to invest. Mrs L regularly discussed  bond interest  rates with Kent Reliance 
and waited for a period of time until the rates  increased. She then gave  instructions  for 
£40,000 to be put into a one year fixed rate bond at 1.9% and £37,526.61  into a two year 
tracker bond at 1.5%. 
Mrs L thinks that Kent Reliance invested the funds into the wrong bonds.
Mrs L also complains that she hasnt received some correspondence from Kent Reliance. 
She says that an application form was sent to the wrong address and believes that other  
letters have  gone missing.
Mrs L also complains generally  about Kent Reliances customer service. She feels that they 
havent treated  her fairly.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and listened to just under forty calls between  the 
business and Mrs L. She agreed that Kent Reliance made an error when they sent out an 
application form, but thought that all other correspondence had been addressed correctly. 
Our investigator thought that £50 was fair compensation for the address error. Having 
listened to the call recordings, she considered that Kent Reliance had made reasonable 
efforts to deal with Mrs Ls queries  over the telephone  and had returned  her calls. She also 
thought Kent Reliance followed  Mrs Ls instructions and invested  the right amounts in each 
bond.
In order for Mrs L to be able to see her holdings more clearly, our investigator  also asked 
Kent Reliance to send Mrs L statements/certificates for her bonds  from 2016 to date by 
recorded delivery. I understand that theyve agreed to do this.
Mrs L disagrees with the view. She feels the issues have been ignored  and believes  there 
may have  been  a conspiracy. She would like more compensation.
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
amounts in bonds
Mrs L believes that Kent Reliance made an error  with the amounts placed into the bonds. 
She says this is shown  in the letters sent from Kent Reliance.
 
Kent Reliance have  confirmed that the funds have been invested in accordance  with 
Ref: DRN08031782Mrs Ls instructions. Im satisfied that Kent Reliance did carry out Mrs Ls instructions  and 
put the funds into the right bonds. The letters  state which bonds the funds  have come  from. 
Next they state  which bonds the funds  have been  invested in. I appreciate that Mrs L 
misunderstood the information in the letters and it maybe that the information could have 
been presented  in a clearer way, but I cant fairly  say that Kent Reliance made  an error here. 
And Ive seen that Mrs L spoke to Kent Reliance after shed received the letters  and they 
explained the details to her.
missing correspondence
Mrs L has consistently said she hasnt  received  some correspondence from Kent Reliance. 
Ive seen that Kent Reliance  made  a mistake  in sending an application form to the wrong 
address. Kent Reliance  accept that an error was made here as the letter was incorrectly 
addressed. Kent Reliance  have  apologised for this mistake and have offered £50 to 
compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
I agree  that this mistake was avoidable  and I appreciate that it upset Mrs L. But Ive taken 
into account that no details about Mrs Ls accounts  were on the form and Kent Reliance 
acknowledged their mistake. On balance, I consider that the apology and offer of £50 was 
fair and reasonable compensation for the error made. 
Kent Reliance have  confirmed that all other correspondence was sent to the right address. I 
havent seen any documents which show that further errors were made. Thats  not to say I 
dont accept that some correspondence might have gone missing. Mrs L has consistently  
explained that she hasnt received everything Kent Reliance said they would send her. I 
dont doubt that this has caused Mrs L distress and worry. But I have to consider whether 
missing post was down  to Kent Reliance. 
Ive taken into account that during  some  of the calls to Kent Reliance  and in calls to our 
investigator, Mrs L has spoken about  problems with her post going missing generally.  So 
there appears to be a wider problem here.
Ive thought carefully about this but on balance, except for the application form, I think its 
more likely than not that Kent Reliance did send correspondence to the right address. Thats  
all they were required to do. It may be there was then a problem with the post and delivering 
the letters to the correct  property, but once the letters were correctly posted,  issues with the 
postal service and physical delivery  to Mrs L were matters outside Kent Reliances control. 
So whilst I sympathise  with the situation Mrs L found  herself in, I cant fairly say Kent 
Reliance did anything wrong  here.  
Ref: DRN08031783customer service
Mrs L says that Kent Reliance have  treated  her unfairly and says she had to make many  
calls. Some of these  concerns  stem  from the postal issues, which  Ive addressed above. 
Kent Reliance fairly conceded  where  there had been  a mistake but explained that all other 
correspondence had been sent to the correct  address.
The majority of the calls deal with Mrs L asking for updates about interest rates.  As our 
investigator has highlighted, at times Kent Reliance directed Mrs L to their website for the 
interest rates but when Mrs L explained  she didnt use the internet, Kent Reliance spoke to 
her about  the rates  on offer. The calls were handled professionally  and whilst Mrs L 
sometimes called back to clarify information, most of the calls ended  well. Mrs L was given 
information about the interest rates for different  bonds and as a result she gave instructions 
to invest her funds and these instructions were carried out. 
Mrs L is right that Kent Reliance didnt  refer to the £50 offer when  they wrote  to her about 
her complaint and I agree  that it would have been better if they had done  so. But they did 
offer this amount during a call and as Ive said above, they are still offering to pay this, so I 
cant fairly say that Mrs L has lost out here and I wont  be asking Kent Reliance to do 
anything more.
my final decision
I am sorry  to disappoint Mrs L, but for the reasons given Im not upholding this complaint. Its 
now a matter for Mrs L to decide whether or not to accept the £50 offer from OneSavings 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0803178