K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  the settlement of a claim under their home insurance policy by 
Legal & General Insurance Limited  (L&G).
background
Mr and Mrs H had home insurance with L&G and made  a claim because they believed their 
home had been  struck by lightning, causing the ethernet  network cabling to blow up and 
damage the electrical appliances that were attached to it. They  told the loss adjuster theyd 
returned from holiday to find the electrics off and concluded thered been  a lightning strike  
during heavy storms. They said there were two wires  fused together from the telephone  line 
and any electrical  device that was connected to the internet had been affected.
L&G accepted thered  been storms around  the relevant time, but the loss adjuster queried 
whether there was evidence that an insured event had happened and whether there was 
any physical evidence of damage consistent  with a lightning strike. Mr and Mrs H were 
asked to instruct experts to verify the damage to their possessions, but L&G eventually  
instructed forensic  engineers. 
Mr and Mrs H were concerned about  delays  and the fact theyd been inconvenienced by 
initially having to find their own expert to assess the damage.  L&G maintained  the testing 
was necessary, but it apologised for the time it was taking to assess the claim and for the 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs H had experienced, offering  them £150 compensation. 
It ultimately offered  cash for number of items  including six routers, a hi-fi, a 3D printer,  a set 
top box and a television. But it declined  to pay for other  items,  including a games console, a 
joy stick, two laptops, a PC monitor, a printer and a router because the technician hadnt  
identified any damage that would be consistent  with a lightning  strike. There were  also a 
number of items that werent tested at all.
Mr and Mrs H accepted  the offer for the hi-fi, but they disputed the valuation of the TV. They 
also said most of the items L&G had declined still turned  on, but the network  ports were 
damaged. They said they intended to take those  items to the manufacturer  and to instruct 
their own specialist, arguing the technician L&G used  wasnt  appropriately qualified.  
L&G explained the testing had been done  by an electrical specialist and that Mr and Mrs H 
could arrange  for the items  to be independently tested. It would then consider  any new 
evidence and reimburse the cost of the expert  report if it was persuaded to change  its 
decision. It explained some items hadnt been tested as they were too big to take away, but 
it didnt think there  was any benefit in them being  tested in the same  way as Mr and Mrs H 
would likely  not accept  the outcome. Regarding its offer for the television, it explained it had 
since located a 3D television on which it had based its final offer of £637. 
Mr and Mrs H remained dissatisfied and so they complained to this service. They explained  
most of the items werent tested and that L&G had only paid for the four cheapest items, 
refusing to pay for two, even though theyd failed the safety  test. They  said L&G still had the 
items it had taken for testing and that the engineer had thrown all of the equipment  together  
in bags when  hed taken them away. They also said theyd had no set top box until L&G had 
finally made the cash settlement, and theyd had to buy printers and computers for their 
children to do school  work. They wanted  L&G to have the items competently  tested in a 
Ref: DRN07209342more detailed and comprehensive way and to reconsider the claim based on the outcome of 
that testing.
Our investigator didnt  feel the complaint should be upheld. He noted Mr and Mrs H hadnt 
submitted any evidence to dispute  the conclusions in L&Gs experts  report and that he 
considered L&Gs offer of £150  compensation for distress and inconvenience was fair.
Mr and Mrs H werent  satisfied and have asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. They dont  accept the expert gave a fair and professional assessment as a 
number of items werent tested. They explain that many of the items will switch on, but the 
network ports were damaged by the lightning  strike.  They  maintain  that some  of the items 
that were taken away were damaged by the engineers, including  a laptop screen.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
The policy provides cover for damage caused by lightning. But, because  the circumstances 
meant the physical evidence  that a lightning strike had damaged Mr and Mrs Hs 
possessions was limited,  L&G said it needed evidence that this is what happened.  Im 
satisfied that was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs H have suggested the claim hasnt been  satisfactorily  settled, but L&G confirmed  
it had settled the claim for the items it accepted were  damaged  by lightning  and Im satisfied 
its decision to base  its settlement of the claim on the conclusions in the technicians  report 
was fair. It also confirmed it had based the settlement for the television on a 3D television, 
and Im satisfied this was fair.
Some of the items claimed for were tested by specialists, but Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied 
with the outcome of the testing. They felt the specialist wasnt  suitably qualified  and they 
questioned the methods used. They argued  the technician tested for a powerline lightning  
strike rather than damage caused by a strike to the network cabling, meaning some  items 
passed because they would still switch on, even though the network ports were damaged.
Ive considered whether L&Gs testing was suitable, and Im satisfied it took reasonable 
steps to validate the claim using forensic  specialists, and that the methods used were 
appropriate in the circumstances. Significantly, Mr and Mrs H havent produced any expert  
evidence to contradict  the technicians findings  and in those  circumstances I cant conclude it 
was unfair  or unreasonable for L&G to have  relied  on the conclusions of its own expert. 
L&G made it clear to Mr and Mrs H that they were free to arrange for the items to be re-
tested and that if this changed the outcome of the claim, it would reimburse  the cost of the 
new report. Im satisfied this was reasonable. Further, Mr and Mrs H told L&G they were 
going to get the items tested independently and/or take them  to the manufacturer,  and L&G 
isnt now responsible for the fact they didnt do that.
Some items were never taken away for testing,  and Mr and Mrs H have complained about 
this. L&G told Mr and Mrs H that some  of the items  had been too big to be taken away  in the 
first instance  and that as they subsequently didnt accept the technician  was suitably 
qualified or that the tests were sufficiently  in-depth, it didnt think there was any benefit in 
Ref: DRN07209343testing those items. Its right that insurers should take reasonable steps to validate claims, 
but Ive considered L&Gs explanation for why some items  werent tested and taking into 
account the state of the relationship between Mr and Mrs H and L&G and the fact it had 
agreed to reimburse  the cost of an independent report  if it changed the outcome of the claim, 
Im satisfied its position regarding the untested  items  was reasonable, in particular because 
Mr and Mrs H had suggested they would get them tested  themselves.
Mr and Mrs H have also suggested  that L&G retained some of the items that were taken 
away for testing but, if a claim  is settled in cash,  insurers are entitled  to retain the item to 
which the settlement  relates. Further, Im satisfied L&G took reasonable steps  to explain 
what Mr and Mrs H needed to do to arrange for their possessions  to be returned. 
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the way the technician handled their possessions.  
L&G asked them to provide a report detailing  the nature and extent of any damage they felt 
had been caused during its assessment of the claim and Im satisfied this was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs H reported that a laptop was returned  to them  with a damaged screen,  but 
L&Gs notes  state  the items were recorded  on camera and that there were no cracks in the 
laptop screen. They also show the technician  confirmed  hed handled the items carefully, 
and in the absence of evidence to support that the laptop screen, or any other  items,  was 
damaged while it was away for testing, Im not satisfied  that it was. 
Overall, Im satisfied L&Gs handling  of the claim was fair. Mr and Mrs H have explained they 
bought new printers  and computers for their children to use while  they waited for the 
outcome of the claim and that theyd  had to spend time without a set top box. But, if they did 
spend money to replace items before the conclusion of the claim, that was their choice.  And 
a period of inconvenience  pending L&Gs investigations was inevitable and something that 
resulted from the claim itself, rather than a failure  on L&Gs part. L&G offered to pay Mr and 
Mrs H £150 compensation for delays at the start of the claim and Ive considered  the impact 
those delays had, and Im satisfied  £150  was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
I understand Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed  but for the reasons outlined  above, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0720934