K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in1996. Mrs C says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the PPI.
Mrs C took out the store  card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken responsibility  for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs C says that she was unaware of the PPI. But I think  that FICL made it clear that she 
didnt have to take out he PPI, and that she chose to do so, although I can understand why 
she doesnt remember this as it was so long ago. I say this because  FICL has provided  a 
copy of Mrs Cs store card application  and I can see that the policy  is presented as 
optional, and has been selected.  Mrs C has then signed the application, agreeing to the 
information on it.    
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said, including  what  shes  said about not needing 
the policy as she only made the minimum repayments, and her family wouldve made these  
repayments on her behalf  if she wasnt able to.
But the PPI couldve  covered Mrs Cs minimum repayment  plus a bit extra if she wasnt 
able to work  and potentially clear her balance  for her if she was off work for an extended 
time. And while family  are often keen  to help out when  they can, peoples circumstances can 
change, and ultimately the repayments were Mrs Cs responsibility. So these points dont 
change my decision, and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Ref: DRN03382552Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0338255