K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Insurance Factory Limited (IFL) didnt give him the correct  proof  that his
car was insured.  This led to his car being  seized by the Police,  causing  him stress and
leaving him out of pocket.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional  decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was minded to not uphold  Mr Ls complaint. I 
invited both parties to let me have anything  in response they thought was relevant.
IFL accepted my findings  and said it had nothing further to add.
Mr L responded to let us know he felt the content  of my provisional decision was incorrect 
and he didnt accept  it; in summary  he said:
The Police officer, who dealt  with him, has not left the Police Force.
At the core of my case is the fact that I was travelling lawfully.  I was driving at 
approximately 20 mph and had gone  around  a roundabout twice.  The speed limit was 
40mph. People  were  driving faster. The police basically stopped me for driving while 
lost...They said "you appeared lost" but no traffic  law had been  broken. 
The Police at the time fully accepted I was driving to a pre-booked MOT. The DVLA  
also accepted  this as fact after thoroughly checking the evidence  I provided to them.
IFL were the only ones in the market  at the time that didnt include the registration 
number of the insured vehicle on its confirmation documentation. And had it done so 
the Police wouldnt have seized his car. To further evidence this Mr L provided a 
copy of a handwritten  note, he says was given to him by the Police  officer.  It outlines 
the cost of the vehicle recovery and the daily impound fee, at the bottom of the note it 
also says:
the email  ins needed proof  you owned  the car to be valid. HO/RTI would 
have been issued  [sic]
IFL refused to help throughout the time the car was impounded and never  offered to 
speak to the Police on his behalf.
In addition to these points Mr L provided evidence of online research he has carried  out 
about the circumstances in which the Police seize  cars.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision and for the same  reasons,  Ill explain why 
and address the points Mr L has raised.
I spoke to the relevant Police force to gather  extra  information about the situation Mr L found 
himself in on the evening his car was seized.  It was during this call that I was told the 
Ref: DRN01919882reporting officer who had authorised the seizure  of Mr Ls car had left the Police force.  I 
apologise to Mr L if this isnt correct.
Its accepted by all parties  that Mr L was not initially stopped by the Police for being 
uninsured, but because  of the way he was driving. This was information  given to me by the 
Police when speaking to them. Mr L has clarified that this was because he was driving slow 
and looked lost. So it follows that its likely he would have always have been stopped by the 
Police so they could  check he was ok. It is not disputed  that it was his intention to take the 
car to a prearranged MOT.
The rules  laid out to insurers by the Financial Conduct Authority are called the Insurance  
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). I have looked at these rules to see if there is 
anything that IFL need to do differently, and they say:
 an insurer  needs to provide evidence of cover  promptly after inception of a policy
ICOBS doesnt specify  a timeframe for what this means so Ive considered what I think  to be 
fair and reasonable. Mr L bought the insurance  policy on a Sunday evening  and IFL provided 
evidence of cover on the next working day I dont  think thats  an unreasonable length  of time.
Mr L says that IFL was the only ones in the market at the time that didnt include a vehicle  
registration on its confirmation emails. I dont know if that was the case but assuming it was, 
it doesnt mean IFL did something wrong  here as the rules  dont require it to do this 
specifically.
Im also not persuaded the hand written note,  quoted above, proves the Police  wouldnt have 
seized Mr Ls car, as when Mr L originally  supplied us with a copy  of this note in November 
2018 it didnt contain the commentary quoted above. It only contained the recovery charge 
costs and the daily charge for storage. The commentary above has been added  since the 
note was first sent to us, so I havent relied on this.
When the Police refused to accept the insurance certificate as proof of cover  to release the 
car, Mr L says IFL refused  to help but I dont  agree this is the case. I have  seen call notes 
from IFLs  system relating to a call on 16 May 2018 these say:
PH called  regarding the call on Monday  and saying the veh isnt on MID. I have  adv 
it takes up to 7 to 10 working days to go on MID we have  send  out docs  with the reg 
on the cert to show pol is live. I have adv if police want to talk to us confirming this 
then we will confirm the veh is insured.  I have ask wants  to log complaint PH said no 
and thanks for my help [sic]
I do have every sympathy for Mr L and the unfortunate circumstances he found himself in, 
but in order for me to uphold  his complaint Id have to be satisfied that IFL did something 
wrong. That would mean  it either didnt comply with the rules set out by the regulator  or it 
didnt follow  its own internal procedures and I cant see thats the case  here. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think IFL have acted unfairly here and so I wont be 
asking it to do anything  to put the situation  right for Mr L.
I know Mr L will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  
we can do for him in trying to resolve  his dispute with IFL
Ref: DRN01919883my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0191988