K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) offered to reconsider a ban on 
attending one of its branches, but never  got back to him. 
Background
In 2017, Halifax  sent Mr S a letter explaining that he was no longer welcome  in a particular 
branch in his area due to his behaviour  towards  staff members. Mr S tried to complain to our 
service about the ban, but it wasnt something  we could look into as the complaint was 
brought outside of the necessary timeframes.  
Mr S subsequently brought another complaint to our service that Halifax  had never told him 
whether or not the ban was permanent. In December 2018, an ombudsman reached a final 
decision that Halifax had made the permanency of the ban clear in its original letter.  The 
decision didnt address the fairness  of the ban, for the reasons given above.  
Around that time, Mr S went into the branch  and asked  to speak to a manager. Hed heard 
there had been  some  changes of staff, and wanted  to ask whether the ban was still 
necessary. A manager discussed the ban with Mr S and agreed  to consult with his team.
Mr S left with the understanding that the manager  would contact him with the outcome in the 
New Year. The managers understanding was that Mr S would follow  up in branch.  
In March, Mr S tried to phone the branch as he hadnt heard anything.  His call was 
redirected to a call centre  operative who agreed to contact the manager for Mr S. The 
manager had since moved elsewhere,  so he passed the message  on to the new manager of 
Mr Ss branch. A couple of weeks later,  Mr S still hadnt heard anything so he complained to 
Halifax.
In its response,  Halifax explained that neither manager had contacted him because they 
thought hed follow up in branch. It said that the team hadnt agreed for the ban to be lifted,  
and that the new manager  had declined to meet with him. It was therefore  best for Mr S to 
contact an alternative branch to move things forward.  
Our investigator didnt  think Halifax had acted fairly.  She felt the manager shouldve  
contacted Mr S after hed spoken to his team to confirm he still wasnt  welcome in the 
branch. She also thought someone should  have got back to Mr S following the message  
from the call centre operative. By not contacting Mr S at either  of these junctures, she felt 
Halifax had prolonged his uncertainty, so recommended that it pay him £100 compensation. 
Halifax didnt agree. It said that Mr S should have  complied  with the ban. If he had, the 
situation would have been avoided.  Halifax  said the manager Mr S spoke  to in December 
had only entertained the discussion to avoid a confrontation in front of other customers.  
Halifax felt it was unlikely  the manager would have agreed to follow  up with Mr S given his 
past conduct, so it was more likely  that Mr S agreed to follow up in person in the New Year. 
It said the new manager hadnt  been  asked to contact Mr S, so hadnt done anything  wrong  
by not doing so.  
Ref: DRN09549012My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Halifax has taken the decision  to maintain a relationship with Mr S, but to ban him from a 
particular branch. As Mr S remains a customer of Halifax, its still under an obligation to treat 
him fairly. And it needs to communicate with him in a way thats  both clear  and consistent.  
I dont think the fact that Mr S had broken the conditions of the ban on the day in question  
changes that, especially  given that the manager chose to engage with him rather than 
enforce the ban. 
Its clear from the managers testimony that he was aware of the history  of Mr Ss ban when 
he agreed to speak with him in December. Hes since said that he told Mr S during the 
conversation that he was surprised that his account  hadnt been closed. Bearing those 
comments in mind, its unclear to me why the manager offered to reconsider the ban at all. 
Halifax has argued that it was to keep the peace.  But I think that was misleading for Mr S, as 
it raised his hopes  that there  was a reasonable chance the ban would be lifted. 
I can see that the manager has said he did subsequently discuss the ban with his team  
members, who firmly asserted it should remain in place.  Once  the manager was in a position  
to give Mr S a definitive answer to his enquiry, I think it would have been reasonable for him 
to have contacted him to let him know. And I think that applies whether  Mr S had said hed 
stop by at the branch  in the New Year or not. I dont think  it was fair for the manager to have 
waited for Mr S to return to a branch that he was banned from, only to reiterate that he was 
still banned and needed to leave.  Thats  especially so if the purpose  of offering to reconsider 
the ban in the first place was to avoid a confrontation.  
In the end, Mr S made contact by phone to chase up the outcome. A call centre operative 
sent the manager a message to say Mr S had called.  The managers written testimony is 
that he passed on the message to contact Mr S to the manager that had replaced him. Its 
therefore unclear  why neither of the managers returned Mr Ss call as requested.  The 
original manager  would  have known Mr S had called to discuss  the outcome of their 
conversation in December, as that was the only interaction theyd had. It would  seem  this 
was a further opportunity that Halifax missed  to confirm that the ban remained in place, 
before things escalated into a complaint.     
Taking everything into account,  I think that Halifax raised Mr Ss expectations by agreeing to 
reconsider a ban it had previously said was permanent. I think it then prolonged Mr Ss 
uncertainty about the situation  by not sharing the outcome with him. It then added  to Mr Ss 
frustration by failing to get back  in contact with him when he called in to chase the outcome. 
In the circumstances, I think £100 is a reasonable award of compensation.  
Ref: DRN09549013My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as 
Halifax) to pay Mr S £100 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Mike Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0954901