K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the way Nationwide Building  Society dealt with his cash ISA transfer  
to another bank  causing him financial loss.
background
In January 2019, Mr H instructed Nationwide to transfer funds from his Cash ISA account to 
another bank  who I will call Bank A. The account  was closed on 2 January 2019. Mr H says 
the money was not available in his account with Bank A until 7 January 2019. He says 
Nationwide delayed the transfer  and so the money wasnt  available  with Bank A. As a result,  
he says he has lost interest on the funds for these  days  and wants  Nationwide to refund this 
money to him.
Nationwide say the account was closed on 2 January 2019 and all funds were  transferred to 
Bank A the same day. Nationwide say they didnt delay the transfer,  and after the transfer  
they are no longer responsible for the funds. They say they didnt do anything  wrong  and are 
not accountable for any loss he may have suffered. Unhappy with this response,  Mr H 
brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Hs complaint and agreed with Nationwide. He 
had seen evidence  that the transfer  and closure of account were both done on 2 January 
2019. He could see no evidence of wrong doing  and didnt ask Nationwide to do anything 
further.
Mr H didnt agree, so this has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
There has been detailed  correspondence with Mr H about his experience  with Nationwide  
and its clear he has strong feelings about  his experience.  Id like to assure Mr H that Ive 
thought carefully  about everything hes said including  the correspondence sent after he 
received the investigators view. 
I understand Mr H was concerned that hes lost interest on the funds for the period between 
2 to 7 January 2019. He said the funds were not available  with Bank A until the 7 January 
2019. I should explain that our role at this service is to put things right when a business has 
done something wrong. The complaint  I am investigating is against Nationwide so Im only 
able to look at what they have done.  I am unable to investigate the actions of Bank A as part 
of this complaint  but I understand that this is being investigated separately. 
Having reviewed the evidence Nationwide has sent us, it clearly shows that the transfer of 
funds from Nationwide  to Bank A was done on the 2 January 2019. I am satisfied that the 
payment would also have been  received by Bank  A the same day. So I cant  hold 
Nationwide accountable for what happened  after the funds were transferred to Bank  A. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed by my decision but I cant fairly say that Nationwide  has 
done anything  wrong so I wont  be upholding  this complaint.
Ref: DRN07488762my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am not upholding this complaint against  Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0748876