K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that he was given  incorrect and misleading information about his fixed rate 
bond by Nationwide Building  Society. 
Background
Mr S opened  a one year savings bond  with Nationwide in 2015. In 2016 Mr S took out a 
further one year bond. In 2017 Mr S took a five year fixed rate bond.
Mr S says that on 24 July 2018 he visited his local branch and asked about  the bond.  Mr S 
says he was told that interest would be paid to a linked current  account with another  bank on 
27 July 2018 and no later than 29 July 2018. During  his visit Mr S says it became clear  that 
the branch staff didnt know how the bond worked. Despite asking to speak with a senior  
member of staff Mr S wasnt  able to. Hes told us that the branch manager later left him a 
message promising to call back but didnt.  
Nationwide paid Mr S £1,650 on the anniversary of his bond in July 2018 and a further 
£1,650 in July 2019. 
To resolve  his complaint  Mr S wants to withdraw his funds from the five year fixed  rate bond  
early  without penalty. Nationwide  responded to Mr S complaint  on 10 August 2018 and 
apologised that he was given incorrect information  about  when  the interest would be paid 
and said it would pass feedback to the staff involved. 
M S referred his complaint to our service  and an investigator looked at what had happened. 
In its file submission Nationwide said Mr S could  leave the five year fixed  rate bond and that 
it would  recalculate  the interest he would have received on a one year fixed rate bond. 
Nationwide went on to say that it had paid Mr S £1,650 in interest because  he was receiving 
an interest rate of 1.65%  on a five year fixed rate basis. But the interest  rate for a one year 
fixed rate was lower  which meant Mr S would  have to return some  of the interest it had 
already paid him if he were to redeem the five year fixed rate bond early. 
The investigator thought Nationwides offer was fair. Mr S didnt agree so his complaint  has 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S complains that he was given  misleading  information by Nationwide when he asked 
what date it pays interest  to him from his five year fixed rate bond.  I understand  Mr S says 
the information he was given wasnt clear  and the staff he spoke with didnt understand how 
the bond worked or when  interest payments would be received. But I have  to balance that 
against the other information available about  the bond.  The  bonds terms say that interest  is 
calculated daily on the balance and that customers can chose to receive interest payments 
monthly or annually. The terms go on to say that interest will be paid on the anniversary  of 
the account opening. 
Ref: DRN09734742In this case, Nationwide paid Mr S £1,650 on the anniversary  of the date he opened the five 
year fixed  rate bond. Whilst  I note that Mr S says the branch staff werent  sure about how the 
product worked,  I think the supporting information provided was sufficiently clear  in setting 
out when interest  payments would be made. Nationwide has apologised if Mr S was given  
any unclear information or received poor service  and I think  thats  fair in the circumstances.  
To resolve  the complaint  Mr S asks to be released from the fixed  rate bond without penalty. 
Nationwide has offered to let Mr S end his five year fixed rate early without paying a penalty  
(it would normally charge  one years interest  to end a five year fixed rate bond early). But 
Nationwide has paid Mr S interest  based  on the longer term commitment of a five year fixed  
rate bond.  If Mr S had taken a shorter term fixed rate bond  he would have received a 
substantially lower interest rate and lower  returns  from Nationwide. To put it another  way, 
Mr S has received two annual interest payments so far that total £3,300. If he had taken the 
shorter term one year fixed rate products he would have received a fixed  interest rate of 
0.75% and received a total of £1,500 over the last two years. 
When resolving a complaint we try to put the consumer into the position they would have 
been in had no error been made. In this case,  if Mr S were  to end his five year fixed  rate 
bond early but keep  the higher interest payments  he received (on the basis  that he would 
retain the bond for its full term) hed be in a better  position than if hed taken out the one year 
fixed rate bond.  Nationwide says Mr S received £1,800 more than he would have during the 
bonds first two years by selecting the five year bond over the one year version. I agree that 
Nationwides offer to let Mr S come out of his five year bond early  should take the interest 
hes received into account.  
We recently obtained up to date figures from Nationwide, setting out what  it would charge 
Mr S if he redeemed  his bond.  On 1 November 2018  Nationwide  said if Mr S closed his bond  
now it would  charge him £1,220 and return £98,779  from his original investment. Mr S has 
received £3,300 in interest payments from Nationwide  since  the start of his bond.  As a 
result, the total return he would receive  on the original investment would be around  £2,079. 
Thats broadly  in line with what he would have  received if Mr S had opted for the shorter 
term one year fixed rate products. 
The investigator recently sent Mr S details of Nationwides figures  and asked whether hes 
willing to proceed.  Mr S responded and said hes only willing  to pay £412.50 which  is three 
months interest. But that would mean  Mr S had received considerably more interest than 
would have been due if hed taken  out a shorter term product. I dont agree that Mr S 
proposed option  is fair to Nationwide. 
Mr S has the option of leaving  his five year fixed rate bond in place to run to the end of the 
term. If he wants to move  his funds to a different provider  Mr S will need to decide whether 
to accept Nationwides offer to pay £1,220 or pay the full 12 month withdrawal penalty of 
£1,650. As I havent found anything  to show Nationwide treated Mr S unfairly or that it has 
made a mistake that has led to a financial loss, Im not telling it to increase its offer or take 
any further action.  Mr S should be aware  that the £1,220 figure  is liable to change  depending 
on the date his bond is closed. I leave it to Mr S to decide how he wants to proceed.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN09734743Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0973474