K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that Career Finance 4 Trade Skills Limited (CF4TS)  wont  refund him for a
training course.  He says there are various  issues with what he was told about the course
when he agreed  to undertake it. The course was funded using a fixed sum loan provided by
CF4TS.
background 
In March 2015 Mr K enrolled on a training course  provided by a company Ill refer to as N. A
representative from N had a meeting with Mr K about the course at his home.  He paid a £50
advance payment and took a fixed sum loan with CF4TS to cover the remaining cost which
was £6,720.
In April 2018 Mr K got in touch with N as he said hed been  locked  out of his online account.
N explained the course had a time limit of three years which  Mr K had now passed without
completing the course. It said Mr K could pay £250  to another company  to extend the term.
Mr K said he was surprised at this as he didnt know the course had a time limit. At this point
he had completed  a few of the modules of the course, but not all of it.
Mr K complained to N. It said the terms and conditions for the course made it clear that there
was a three year timescale to complete. And it said most people  have no issue  completing
the course in this time.
Mr K then later complained to CF4TS in June 2018.  He reiterated his point about not being
told about the three year time limit. He also said when he signed  up for the course he was
told various other things  that turned out not to be true. He said that he was told test centres
would be open  at weekends  but they turned out to be only available Monday to Friday.  He
said he was told that all his travel and accommodation costs  would  be reimbursed  but he
later found  out only £30 per day could be claimed.  He said he was told the qualification
would lead him to be fully qualified within 18 months  in his chosen field and he would earn
more than his income  at the time. Mr K says he later found out this wouldnt be the case.
Mr K also complained that he thought  the course had delays built in which  meant he
couldnt have  completed it within three years.
Mr K also made other complaints to CF4TS.  He said he was unhappy with Ns response  to
his complaint. He complained N was now refusing to provide him with further training or
materials. And, he said there was a conflict of interest between  CF4TS, N and the company
hed been referred  to for an extension.
Mr K said he either wanted to be able to continue with the course at no cost, or he wanted a
refund to allow him to continue with his studies elsewhere.
CF4TS issued its final response letter (FRL)  in August 2018. It said it couldnt  comment  on
what was discussed  during the meeting with N. But, it said the terms and conditions  for the
course made  it clear  there was a three  year time limit to complete it. It said the Plan  of the
Course made it clear the practical training would take place in week long sessions and not
at weekends. It said a voucher  Mr K was provided to claim expenses  stated that he could
claim for up to £30 a night  for travel  and/or accommodation.
CF4TS said Mr Ks work was marked in a reasonable  time and the time between  him
Ref: DRN06841872booking and completing the practical parts of the course was not unusual   so it felt Mr K
was not delayed completing the course. It also said N responded to Mr Ks complaint
properly.
CF4TS explained it wasnt upholding Mr Ks complaint and it didnt consider that any refund
was due. It said if Mr K wanted to contact the third company N had referred him to it would
have no involvement  in this.
Mr K was unhappy with this response and our service began  to investigate  his complaint.
While we were  looking  at the case CF4TS made  two offers  to settle  the complaint as a
gesture of goodwill. It initially offered to extend  the course by up to 24 months free of charge.
Mr K declined this as hed already continued  some of his studies with another  provider.
CF4TS then offered  to extend  the course by 24 months and cover £400 of Mr Ks costs  for
the courses he completed elsewhere.  Mr K was unhappy with this and declined the offer. So,
our investigator issued her opinion.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ks complaint. She said she thought the course had been
misrepresented to Mr K, as she believed it was likely he was told he could  complete the
course over a longer time. And she believed hed been told the test centres were open at
weekends.
The investigator said she believed Mr K had completed around 40 percent of his course.  So,
she said it was fair for him to receive a refund of 60 percent  of the total cost  which she said
was £4,062.
Mr K agreed with the investigators opinion. CF4TS disagreed. It referenced some other
cases our service had looked  into. It said Mr K hadnt provided material evidence  to back  up
his version of events.  It reiterated what it said about the terms and conditions  making things
clear to Mr K. And it said had this service investigated things quicker, it couldve come to a
solution with Mr K.
I sent Mr K and CF4TS a provisional decision  on 18 June 2020. Ive included the findings 
from this decision below:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I initially  think  this
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
This complaint is about a fixed-sum loan which is a regulated finance agreement. This
means I can look into the complaint Mr K has made against CF4TS.
Mr K raised concerns about the way CF4TS, N and a third company are set up and operate.
This service only looks into individual complaints and isnt here to investigate general
business practices  so I wont look into this further.
Ive thought about everything Mr K has said in relation to his complaint and all of the issues
hes raised with CF4TS.  But, when  making my decision  Im going to consider what I think are
the most  relevant issues  so I wont  necessarily  address every individual  point Mr K raised.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law. Section 75 of
The Consumer Credit  Act 1974 is relevant  to this complaint. This says,  in certain
circumstances, the borrower  under a credit  agreement  has an equal right to claim  against
Ref: DRN06841873the credit  provider if theres  been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of
goods or services.
So, I need to consider  whether N misrepresented the course  to Mr K, or if there  was a
breach of contract when Mr K was doing  the course he signed  up for.
Mr K has gone into detail about several things he says he was told about the course that he
later found  out werent true. Ill consider each of these in turn.
Time limits  to complete  the course
Mr K says he wasnt told about the three  year time limit for the course  when he signed up for
it. CF4TS says this was made clear to him in the terms and conditions he was provided with.
Mr K has gone into some  detail about  what was discussed during the meeting when he
signed up for the course. He said he was told he would have as long as I need  to complete
the course. He says he was told it could take two years  or five, it goes at your own pace.
He said no information  was discussed  with the representative about time limits.  Mr K was
employed at the time, and he says he fully discussed with the representative  that he worked
full time and had limited  annual leave.
CF4TS were asked to provide details of a script that the representative wouldve followed
during the meeting, but hasnt been able to provide one.
Ive considered that it appears Mr K was steadily working through  the course at his own
pace. This suggests  to me he genuinely believed he had as much  time to complete the
course as he needed.
Taking everything into account,  Im persuaded by what  Mr K says here.  Hes been  consistent
about what was said in the meeting. I think its most likely he was told he could  take longer
than three  years to complete the course without  being charged.
Ive then considered  what  the documents given to him said and if I think these wouldve
made it clear  enough to him to negate  the information I think its likely he was told in person.
On the registration form Mr K signed  it says:
I understand that my self-study programme may take from 12 to 36 months  and it can be
paid for according  to the schedule issued  at registration. I understand that the pace at
which I choose to work through the material remains  under my control  and is a matter  of
personal preference (emphasis added by myself).
Thinking about  this, I dont think this makes it clear  the course has a 36 month time limit.
Saying a course may take from 12 to 36 months is not the same  as saying it must be
completed within 36 months.
The terms and conditions  say:
The duration of our delivery of services  to you should normally be complete within 36
months. Your work programme will complete at the end of that period or when  you have
completed all the modules, whichever comes first. If we consider that you have shown good
progress within the period  and provided  you have completed more than 50% of the course
content, you may apply  in writing for an extension to the period allowed. Any extension  is at
our discretion and a charge of £300  will be made  for this service
Ref: DRN06841874Thinking about  the terms and conditions, I dont  think the wording is particularly clear.  But, in
isolation, I think Mr K wouldve understood from this part of the terms and conditions  that the
course had a 36 month time limit.
I need to consider that the registration  form appears  to say something  different to the terms
and conditions, which at best wouldve been confusing  for Mr K - particularly as I think  its
most likely he was told in person he could take longer  than three years to complete the
course. Ive also considered the prominence of these  two pieces of information. In the terms
and conditions the passage above  is in section 15 of 21. It appears these conditions
wouldve been on the back of the registration  form.
The passage above from the registration form is in section three of five, with IMPORTANT
in bold just above it to draw attention. And, Mr K was required to sign below. So, I think  the
first, unclear,  piece  of information wouldve been  much more prominent  to Mr K than the
second somewhat  clearer  one.
In order for a misrepresentation to have  taken place, Mr K wouldve had to have  been  told a
false statement of fact.  And, this wouldve had to persuade him to go ahead  with the
agreement when he otherwise wouldnt have. Im satisfied  in this case that Mr K was told he
could take longer than three  years  to complete the course without  charge. And, Im satisfied
the documents provided werent clear enough  to explain to Mr K that this wasnt  the case.
Mr K says he wouldnt have signed up for the course had he known about  the time limit, as it
wasnt feasible for him to complete the course in this time. Had he been told about the time
limit, given what hes said about his annual leave  and work, Im satisfied he wouldnt  have
gone ahead  with the course or finance. So, Im satisfied the course was misrepresented to
Mr K because of the time limits.
Test centre opening  times
Mr K says he was told during the meeting with the representative from N that test centres
were open  at weekends. Mr K says this was an important part of the discussions as he had
talked with N about working full time and having limited annual  leave.
Mr K says the ability to use weekends  to supplement his training was a strong  factor in his
decision making. He says there were other test centres closer  to him that he couldve used
instead had he known he wouldve had to take annual  leave  to attend.
CF4TS said it was made entirely clear to Mr K that training would take place in the week.  It
pointed to the course programme and said this made it clear the course  would not take
place at weekends.
Ive looked at the course programme and it describes parts as In Centre Practical  Training &
Assessment  2 weeks , or In Centre Practical Training & Assessment   1 week.  Ive
thought about what CF4TS said about  this. But, I dont agree this makes it clear the training
would not take at weekends. 2 weeks,  or 1 week are periods of time  not a description of
when this would take place. The plan of the course doesnt mention that this training  needs
to take place on specific days  namely  Monday to Friday.
Taking everything into account,  Im again persuaded by what Mr K has said here. I think  its
most likely he was told that test centres  were open at weekends  when they werent.
Ref: DRN06841875Ive considered whether this means Mr K wouldnt have signed up for the finance and course
if he was aware of this. It doesnt appear he complained about this until he had other things
to raise with the business, which Im not sure is consistent behaviour  for someone who found
this very important. But, that being said, given I have found  the course was misrepresented
due to the time limits, I dont think I need  to make a finding here as it wont ultimately  affect
the outcome of the complaint.
Expenses
Mr K says he was told all of his travel and accommodation expenses  could be reclaimed. He
says this was important, as the test centre was around 90 miles from where he lived and he
would require stopovers to attend.  He says he later found out he there  was a £30 per day
limit  which wouldnt be enough to cover even  just his accommodation.
Ive thought carefully about this. But I dont  think  it would be realistic for N to say to Mr K it
would offer unlimited  cover for travel  and expenses  for instance if Mr K decided to stay in
an expensive hotel  this could very quickly become a large amount of money over the time of
the course.
Ive also considered what CF4TS say Mr K was provided with at the time.  Theyve  given a
copy of a voucher that they say he wouldve received when  he signed up for the course.
This says We will require receipts for both travel  and/or accommodation and will make a
contribution up to the value to £30/night.
Thinking about  this, I havent seen enough  to make me think its most likely Mr K was told he
could claim unlimited expenses for travel  and accommodation. It follows I dont think the
course was misrepresented for this reason.
Delays during the course
Mr K says there were  delays built in to the course  which meant it couldnt be completed
within the three year limit. Im satisfied that theres an implied  term in the contract  that the
course needed to be delivered using reasonable skill and care.  I would consider any
excessive delays to be a breach of contract. So, Ill consider if I think this was the case.
Looking at when  Mr K booked his practical training, it appears this took around  two to three
months from when he was eligible to apply to him attending. I dont consider this to be a
short timeframe, but it appears Mr K could continue  studying other modules during this time.
And, CF4TS  pointed out that this timescale allows people time to organise  leave  from work
and accommodation   which doesnt seem  unreasonable.  In total, the course had five
practical training  and assessment sections.  If each of these took three months to book onto,
Mr K still couldve completed the course  well inside the three years, with quite a significant
amount of time to spare.
Thinking about  this, I dont think the delays  in booking  onto the practical training and
assessments wouldve  meant Mr K couldnt have completed the course  within the timeframe
set. So, it follows that I dont consider this to be a breach of contract.
Summary
In summary,  Im satisfied  the course  was misrepresented  to Mr K because I think  its likely
Ref: DRN06841876he was told he could  take longer than three years to complete it without charge. And Im
satisfied he wouldnt have  agreed  to the course  or finance if he knew this wasnt the case.
Ive considered what CF4TS said in response to the investigators view. It said Mr K hadnt
provided material evidence to back up his version  of events, whereas it had provided copies
of documents  etc. from the time. In this case,  Mr K has been consistent in what hes told us
and CF4TS.  And, hes given detailed reasons, as Ive gone  into above, for the points hes
made. So, I consider  Mr Ks testimony to be a key piece of evidence in this case. And the
fact he hasnt provided documents to back this up doesnt change  my opinion on this, as Im
not sure what other evidence it wouldve been possible for him to provide.
Finally, Ive considered  what CF4TS said about delays in this service  dealing with Mr Ks
complaint meaning  it couldnt reach  a solution with him. I dont agree this was the case. If
CF4TS wanted to make  an offer to Mr K to put things right, it might have been prudent to do
this before the complaint  came to this service,  rather than after we had begun to investigate.
Putting things right
As Im satisfied the course  was misrepresented  to Mr K, I considered whether he should get
a full refund   which would put him as close as possible to the position he wouldve been in
had he not taken the finance. But, in this case, Mr K has had some  benefit of the course. So,
I dont think it would  be fair for him to receive  a full refund.
Our investigator said that there were  five practical training and assessment parts  to the
course and Mr K had completed two  so she thought hed had benefit of 40% of the course.
I think splitting the course  by practical sections like this seems  a reasonable way of working
out the benefit Mr K had from the parts of the training he completed.  So, it follows  I think  its
fair that Mr K should pay for 40% of the courses total cost - £2,708.
Our investigator said she thought Mr K should be refunded 60% of the value of the course 
which she said was £4,062. But, according  to the account statements CF4TS provided, Mr K
didnt pay for the full amount of the course.  It appears there  is a balance of £960
outstanding. If Mr K received the refund  recommended by the investigator, he would end up
paying for less than 40% of the course  which I dont think is fair.
It appears Mr K has paid a total of £5,810 towards the course. So, I think  he should receive a
refund of £3,102.
I also think that had the course not been misrepresented, Mr K wouldnt  have  taken the loan
and had it on his credit file. So, I think its fair that the loan is removed.
I gave both parties one month to respond  to my provisional decision with any further 
information or evidence.
Mr K responded and said he accepted  the decision,  but made a few points  for me to 
consider.
CF4TS responded  and told me it disagreed  with the conclusions Id reached. But, it offered 
to refund Mr K £3,102  with 8% interest  added, on the condition  Mr K didnt discuss  the 
settlement with any third party without  CF4TS  and Ns permission. Mr K didnt accept this 
offer.
Ref: DRN06841877my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having thought  about  everything again, 
including the additional comments from Mr K and CF4TS, I still think this complaint should  
be upheld. Ill explain why.
Ive thought about what Mr K said in response  to my provisional decision. 
Mr K said he raised the issue of training  centres not being open when he booked onto the 
first practical course. He says he had a lengthy conversation with the representative  from N 
and they apologised about this at the time. Ive no reason  to doubt what  Mr K is saying here. 
But, I still dont think I need to make a finding  about whether the course  was ultimately  
misrepresented to him for this reason  because  it wont impact on what I think  is a fair 
resolution to the complaint.
Mr K reiterated that he was told all expenses would  be reimbursed when he agreed  to the 
course. He also said the voucher was given  to him in a large amount of paperwork. Ive 
thought carefully  about this, along with the evidence I previously had. But, this new 
information isnt enough to persuade me its most  likely the course  was misrepresented  to 
him because  of this.
Finally, Mr K pointed out that he wouldve acted much quicker had all of the issues 
happened in quick  succession. I take Mr Ks point and I understand one of the issues  may 
have been the straw  that broke the camels back. But again, this doesnt  affect  my decision.
Ive also considered what CF4TS said in response  to my provisional  decision. It said it 
thought the terms  and conditions were clear about  the duration  of the course.  Ive thought  
very carefully about this and reviewed the evidence again. But, I still think  the course was 
misrepresented due to the time limits,  for the reasons explained  in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Career  Finance 4 Trade Skills 
Limited to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Reimburse Mr K £3,102 of the total hes paid*
Remove the agreement from Mr Ks credit file
*this should  have 8% simple interest added from the time Mr K paid to the date he is 
reimbursed. HM Revenue  & Customs requires  Career Finance 4 Trade Skills Limited to take 
off tax from this interest. Career  Finance 4 Trade  Skills Limited must give Mr K a certificate  
showing how much  tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN06841878
Ref: DRN0684187