K822xcomplaint
Miss W and Mr W complain about  the type of finance agreement they entered  into with FCA 
Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA). They say they thought the agreement was a hire 
purchase agreement  with Mr W acting as guarantor and not a fixed  term loan agreement  
with Mr W as a joint borrower. They are also unhappy about the mileage allowance under 
the agreement.
background 
In 2014 Miss W was supplied with a car and entered into a fixed term loan agreement  with 
FCA.
Miss W says that at the time of entering  into the agreement she was 18 years  old and this 
was her first car, which she intended  to use to travel between Aberdeen and Edinburgh, as 
well as for local use.
Miss W says she was led to believe that she was entering into a hire purchase agreement 
where she could  hand  the car back at the end of the term with no penalty. She says she was 
also unaware that there was a maximum mileage of 5000 miles per year,  which wasnt  
suitable for her needs.
It was only when Miss W tried to voluntary terminate the agreement that she discovered that 
shed entered  into a fixed term loan agreement with Mr W as a joint borrower. Mr W has also 
said he was unaware  that he was a joint borrower under the agreement and says he 
wouldnt have agreed to this.
Miss W complained to FCA. In its final response  it said it couldnt find any evidence  to 
suggest that agreement had been  mis-sold. It also said the mileage allowance  was only 
applicable if the business decided to buy the car back. FCA advised Miss W that her options 
were to sell the car and settle the finance  agreement, or sell the car and keep the funds to 
use towards another car but remain liable for the remaining payments.
Miss W says she was unable to sell the car whilst it had finance outstanding so she settled 
the finance from other sources in October  2018.  Miss W subsequently sold the car for £4000 
which left her with a shortfall  to pay under the agreement. She wants  FCA to compensate  
her for this.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. She said there  was no evidence  to suggest 
that the nature of the agreement had been misrepresented but felt that FCA had provided 
conflicting information about the ownership of the car. She said the compensation offered by 
FCA was fair.
Miss W didnt agree.  She felt that the compensation wasnt  enough and made a number of 
points including:
She didnt feel that FCA could  prove  that the agreement wasnt mis-sold
She wasnt aware that the buy back of the car wasnt guaranteed
It was impossible to settle  the finance  from the sale of the car
It wasnt made clear at the time of entering  into the agreement that Mr W was a joint 
borrower
It was unfair that shed paid 7% above the value of the car
Ref: DRN07315412The dealer  who issued the paperwork didnt  go through  it with her
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the finance agreement and associated  documents to decide whether these 
were adequate to explain  what type of agreement Miss w was entering into. The Standard  
European Consumer  Credit Information  sheet  (SECCI) which was provided to Miss W and 
Mr W before  they signed the finance  agreement  states that the type of finance is a fixed  sum 
loan agreement. It sets out the amount of credit, the interest chargeable, the term of the 
agreement and the car associated with the agreement. The finance agreement  itself is 
clearly headed  Fixed Sum Loan Agreement  and contains a declaration that in signing the 
agreement, the customer(s)  confirms receipt of the SECCI. The agreement also sets out the 
customers right to withdraw from the agreement within 14 days  of signing it. I can see that 
both Miss W and Mr W have signed  the agreement.
I think the information provided  in the finance agreement  and associated  documents is clear.  
The type of finance is set out, as well as all the other information  Id expect to see. The onus 
is on Miss W and Mr W to read the agreement before  signing it and in signing the 
agreement. They have confirmed that they have read and understood it and agree to be 
bound by its terms.
I appreciate that Miss W has said that the discussion she had with the dealership  led her to 
believe that she was entering into a PCP (hire purchase) agreement.  In particular,  she 
thought she could hand the car back at the end of the agreement.  I wasnt present when 
those discussions took place so I cant be certain  of what was said.  Theres  no statement 
from the salesman  who assisted Miss W and no file notes from the dealership. In 
circumstances like these, I need to give weight to the available information,  these being the 
documents which came into existence at the time.  These are the best evidence of what was 
agreed between  the parties. These  documents  are the finance  agreement and associated 
documents that Ive already mentioned. Im satisfied that these documents clearly say that 
this was a fixed  term loan agreement and that both Miss W and Mr W were joint parties.
I think its likely that Miss W discussed a PCP agreement with the salesman at first. I say this 
because FCA has provided information  about  the process followed by the dealership when it 
proposes lending.  FCA has explained that all lending is initially  proposed  on a PCP 
agreement, but that if the loan to value (LTV) exceeds a certain  value the lending is 
automatically switched  to a fixed term loan. This is what happened in Miss Ws case. 
I can see that the LTV was 107%,  meaning  the amount borrowed was 7% more than the 
value of the car. Miss W has expressed  concern about this so Ill explain how LTV is 
calculated. The basic vehicle price  was £9,788.00. Miss W added extras including a 
warranty transfer (£27), fuel (£25), road fund licence (£30) and a service plan (£279). This 
brought the total price  to £10,149.00. Miss W paid a contribution  of £139 leaving the sum of 
£10,010.00 to be financed. The amount to be financed exceeded the price  of the car by 7%. 
It doesnt mean that Miss W has paid 7% more  for the car. 
Miss W has said that she entered into the agreement on the understanding that she could 
hand the car back at the end of the term. Ive looked at the finance  agreement  and I can see 
Ref: DRN07315413it includes  a sale option which states  that the car will be purchased back at the end of the 
agreement provided that it is in good  condition and that other requirements are met. I 
appreciate that Miss W didnt meet the mileage requirement. However,  FCA has said that 
the dealership offered to inspect the car with a view to valuing it and looking at whether it 
could help Miss W by purchasing it back. FCA has said that Mr W was unwilling to allow the 
inspection so this didnt  proceed. I cant be certain of whether the dealership  wouldve 
purchased the car back had it had the chance to carry  out the inspection but Im satisfied 
that there was a sale option  written  into the agreement  which  Miss W couldve exercised 
subject to meeting  the requirements.
Ive thought about the mileage allowance. Miss W has said that there  was no discussion 
about a mileage limit. Shes made  the point that 5000 miles a year is below average use and 
that she had told the dealership that she needed  the car to travel  between  Aberdeen and 
Edinburgh. Miss W hasnt provided  any information  to suggest  that she asked for a higher 
mileage allowance and the evidence  she has provided  her insurance  documents  shows  
that she insured the car based  on annual  mileage of only 2000 miles. Based on what  Ive 
seen, Im not persuaded that Miss W asked the dealership for a higher mileage allowance  or 
that the mileage  allowance under the agreement was misrepresented.
Miss W has said that she was unable to sell the car until she had settled the loan. She has 
said this was because the dealerships  she took the car to advised her that FCA had an 
interest because there was outstanding finance  on the car. If this was a hire purchase  
agreement I would understand this. But this is a fixed term loan agreement, in other words,  a 
personal loan. FCA didnt have any interest in the car so the fact that there was an 
outstanding loan balance shouldntve  prevented a sale.
Ive looked  at the information  titled Your agreement coming  to an end which  was sent to 
Miss W in July 2018. This sets out the available options but Im of the view that the 
information is misleading because it refers to having title passed into your name. Because  
this was a personal loan agreement, title was with Miss W from the outset. I can see how 
this might have caused confusion when Miss W came  to sell the car. FCA has 
acknowledged that the wording in the letter was incorrect and misleading.
In conclusion, and based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to say that the finance 
agreement was misrepresented.  There was a change in the type of agreement proposed 
from a PCP to a fixed  term loan agreement.  However, Im satisfied that Miss W and Mr W 
were provided with a copy of the finance  agreement and associated documents  which set 
out the key features of the agreement adequately,  including the type  of agreement and the 
mileage allowance.
The letter sent to Miss W and Mr W at the end of the agreement was misleading with 
regards to the ownership  of the car. Im of the view that this caused  confusion and 
inconvenience when  Miss W came  to sell the car. The compensation of £200 offered by FCA 
is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  the complaint. FCA Automotive Services  UK Ltd 
must pay compensation of £200  in total to Miss W and Mr W.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Ref: DRN07315414Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0731541