K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Mercer  Limited  (a company that it is now responsible  for) wrongly 
advised him to transfer his pension benefits  from a defined benefit  occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) to a section 32 policy. He says that the advice  wasnt in his best interests and 
he has lost out financially  as a result of it.
background 
In brief,  Mr B was advised to transfer  the benefits  from his OPS to the section 32 plan in 
1989.  The advice  to transfer was reviewed as part of the regulators industry wide pension  
review. The firm wrote to Mr B on 8 May 2000  setting out the results of its review.  It said it 
had carried out calculations in line with the guidance  issued by the regulator  at that time. 
And it had established that Mr B hadnt suffered a financial loss as a result of its advice and 
the transfer. 
Unfortunately Mr B was diagnosed with a serious  illness in 2014.  And he subsequently 
started looking into his financial position and contacted  his section 32 policy provider to see 
if he could start taking benefits  from it. He found  this wasnt  possible given his circumstances  
at that time. He also found that the section 32 policy hadnt performed sufficiently to meet the 
guaranteed minimum  pension it was obliged to provide. Mr B says he started  to investigate 
further, and later complained to the firm. He subsequently referred the matter  to us.
Mercer said that it had reviewed the advice to transfer as part of the regulators industry wide 
pension review in May 2000, and so it wasnt required to re-open the matter. One of our 
adjudicators started  investigating the complaint. Mr B told him, during his initial  discussion 
about the case, that he had noticed that the firms pension  review outcome letter had 
referred to his occupational pension scheme  by the wrong name.  The adjudicator  therefore  
asked the firm to check  that it hadnt used the wrong  scheme in its calculations. 
Mercer investigated and found that the wrong  scheme details had been used in the original 
loss calculation. It therefore agreed  to re-calculate the loss at the original calculation date 
and using assumptions relevant at that date, but using the correct  scheme  details. 
On completing its calculation it found  that Mr B had lost out financially as a result of the 
transfer. The loss was expressed  as a percentage of the value of Mr Bs section 32 plan 
(9.9%). And this equated  to a figure  of £10,661 as at February  2019.
Mr B raised a number  of queries  about  the offer.  But subsequently decided  not to accept it. 
He said, in summary, that his understanding was that the theory behind the calculation was 
that it was meant to produce a figure  that when applied  to his existing pension  pot would 
provide about  the same  level of benefits  as his OPS  at its normal retirement  age. But that 
because economic conditions hadnt reflected  the assumptions underlying the calculations 
used in 2000, the amount  fell short.  He said the consequences (both of the advice and the 
level of compensation  offered)  were that he wasnt able to take his pension  at age 60 (either  
in its entirety or as regular payments). 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05946852The advice that Mr B was given  to transfer  was reviewed  in 2000 as part of the regulators 
industry wide pension  review. This review was initiated by the regulator  because it feared 
that investors had been given poor advice which didnt  meet  the required standards  at the 
time. 
Where firms found that advice was deficient  they were  required to carry out a loss 
calculation. Some firms went straight to calculating whether investors  had suffered losses 
without investigating  the suitability of the original advice given. Its not always  the case  that 
advice to transfer out of an occupational  pension  scheme is unsuitable  it depends on the 
individuals particular  circumstances, even sometimes  where  it subsequently  results in a 
loss. 
Its not entirely clear  to me whether Mercer  investigated the suitability of the original advice. 
But it did run a loss calculation which showed  that Mr B hadnt suffered a financial loss at 
that time as a result of the advice to transfer.
As explained by the adjudicator, the aim of the calculation (and any compensation that was 
payable form it) was to make a payment that was thought  to be enough to increase  the value 
of the personal  pension  or section 32 plan to provide about the same level of benefits as the 
former OPS by retirement  date. But the problem  was that for many people  there  was a long 
period to that retirement date. So the calculations were based on a number of assumptions 
that were necessary because of this. The then regulator set down how the calculation  
needed to be run, and the assumptions that all firms had to use to assess  the potential loss 
incurred.
Unfortunately the assumptions used havent  mirrored the subsequent reality of the situation 
 albeit a lot of thought was given to them and they were considered reasonable at that time. 
Annuity rates in particular have fallen  significantly (the rates at which the pension  fund is 
turned into income). This has had an impact on the benefits provided by personal 
pensions/section 32 plans. So although it was thought the compensation plus the existing 
value of the pension would be high enough  to match the OPS  at retirement date,  this has not 
always turned out to be the case.  
As Ive said,  in Mr Bs particular case the original calculation showed no loss. When  Mr B 
made his recent complaint to Mercer  and then to us, it was discovered  that the incorrect 
OPS had been used in the original calculation. The names of the schemes were similar, but 
Mr B had been a member  of a different scheme. 
Mercer agreed to re-run the calculation using  the correct scheme details and using the 
assumptions that were  relevant at the original calculation date. This is in accordance with the 
pension review guidance (Pension Review Bulletin 5). It has also subsequently agreed to 
pay the compensation directly to Mr B, with an appropriate deduction to reflect  Mr Bs 
marginal rate of income tax. 
The loss calculated and compensation payable is not sufficient to allow  Mr B to take his 
benefits at age 60. Or at the level that his former OPS would have paid (albeit the amount  
estimated from the OPS  might also have been based on assumptions - for example inflation,  
which hasnt been  as high as expected). But clearly,   I understand Mr B is unhappy with the 
situation given  he will receive less than the OPS and at a later date.  
The firm carried  out its original pension  review calculation as it was required to do as part of 
the pension review. And I think  it did so in good faith - I think  there was a genuine  error.   It 
Ref: DRN05946853appears to have sent its pension review outcome letter to Mr Bs correct address, and so the 
error in the scheme name could have been spotted at that time  albeit I realise  that Mr B 
has said he doesnt recall  receiving the letter. 
However overall, given  that the firm has now carried out a calculation  in line with the 
requirements of the regulators  pension review  guidance, Im satisfied it has met its 
obligations in the particular circumstances  of this case.
my final decision
Mercer Limited has made an offer to pay Mr B compensation in accordance with the pension 
review guidance.  I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case. My decision is that Mercer  Limited  should pay Mr B the compensation it has 
calculated in accordance with the guidance.  But that payment should be payable  directly to 
Mr B (rather  than into the section 32 plan).  
A deduction of 15% can be made  if Mr B is currently subject to basic rate income tax. If he is 
a non-taxpayer  Mercer  Limited should  pay the full amount to him without  deduction (subject 
to Mr B providing evidence of his tax status). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0594685