K820x#14Complaint
Mr D has complained that TSB Bank  plc wont refund him for transactions  on his account, 
which he says he didnt  make.
Background
Mr D says there were three fraudulent  transactions on his account, totalling £14.89. The 
table bellows shows the disputed transactions in bold. I have also included genuine 
transactions made on the same  day.
Date Time Place/location Type of transaction Amount
10/03/2018 16:24 Greggs chip and PIN £1.35
10/03/2018 18:54 Greggs chip and PIN £0.55
10/03/2018 21:25 Pound Land chip and PIN £0.95
10/03/2018 23:14 McDonalds Plymouth
online payment £4.89
10/03/2018 23:23 Bar Fever Plymouth chip and PIN £5.00
10/03/2018 23:33 Bar Fever Plymouth chip and PIN £5.00
Total £14.89
The last genuine  transaction, which Mr D made, was in Poundland at 9.25pm. However, 
Poundland is closed at this time,  so this might be when the banks system processed the 
payment. Mr D had also used his card in Greggs earlier  the same day. 
Mr D said he went out alone on the evening of 10 March. He visited the Fever and Boutique 
nightclubs in his local town but he said he didnt use his card in the nightclubs. He said he 
checked his wallet on his way home and saw that his debit  card was missing. He contacted  
TSB when  he got home and cancelled his card.  He said he noticed the disputed transactions  
later on 11 March when  he obtained a mini statement  from an ATM. 
He called TSB to raise  a complaint about the disputed transactions.
Mr D said he didnt use his card in Fever nightclub, and he couldnt  recall paying for a 
McDonalds meal. He believes someone stole his card when he was in the nightclub.
He asked TSB for a refund.
TSB investigated his claim  and decided not to refund the disputed transactions.  It thought Mr 
D had authorised the payments because:
the payments  in the nightclub were  made  with his card and PIN
Mr D said he didnt keep a written  note of his PIN and he hadnt  shared it with anyone 
else
there was no evidence of how someone else might have known his PIN
Mr D had been inconsistent in his version  of events. Originally, he told TSB he had 
been home all day and evening. Later, he said he went into the town  centre in the 
evening.
According to its records, hed been  checking  his online banking constantly  on the 
evening of 10 March  through to the early hours  of 11 March  but he didnt call to 
report his card until 3.12am.
Ref: DRN01344922However, TSB accepted that it had kept him waiting a long time on the phone and gave him 
£5 to cover the cost of his call.
Mr D wasnt happy with TSBs decision and so he brought  his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but she didnt uphold  it. She didnt think  the 
transactions were  made by someone else because:
there were no failed attempts at the PIN, so the person using the card already knew  it
the was no plausible explanation for how someone else would know the PIN
the transactions were for small amounts. There were  no cash  withdrawals  or other  
spending on the card, which is typical of fraudulent activity
Mr D was in the same  area as the transactions.
On balance, she thought it was more  likely  that Mr D had made the disputed  transactions.
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view. He is asking for a refund of £14.89.  TSB has 
refused to refund him and so this case has come  to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid my review of 
the evidence has led me to the same overall  conclusions as those reached by the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
In short,  TSB is required  to refund an unauthorised transaction  under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). Mr D says he didnt make  the disputed transactions and 
they are unauthorised. So, my primary  concern  now is to come to a view about whether I 
think he authorised  the transactions.
I have seen the technical reports  for the payments  to the nightclub.  They  show  that the card 
machine read the chip in his card and that his correct PIN was entered first time. I am 
satisfied, therefore,  that Mr Ds genuine  card and PIN were used to make  the payments in 
the nightclub.  
The payment to McDonalds was made  online through an app. Again, the technical reports 
show that Mr Ds card and the CVV numbers were entered online. 
Based on this evidence,  I am satisfied the payments were  authenticated.
The use of Mr Ds card and PIN link him with the transactions. So I need to consider if he 
made them or someone else.
Mr D said someone must have stolen his card while he was in the Fever nightclub. Whilst 
this is possible,  it doesnt explain how the thief got hold of his PIN. 
He said he didnt use his card in the nightclub. This means there was no opportunity  for 
someone else to observe  him enter his PIN into a card terminal (known as shoulder  
surfing). 
The only other opportunity  for someone to shoulder  surf him and steal his card was when 
was in Poundland earlier  that day. However,  I think it is most unlikely this is what happened.  
Ref: DRN01344923It would mean that the person who took his card waited several hours  before using it. I dont 
think it is likely a thief would wait that long before  using  a card because  there  is a high risk of 
the card being  cancelled  before it can be used.  
And it would be an odd coincidence  for someone  else to be using his card in the same 
nightclub at the same time he is there.
I have also taken into account that there were no other transactions,  which again is unusual  
for fraudulent activity.  And there were no attempts to use the card after it was cancelled.
I understand Mr D believes that the PIN was obtained from his card using technology. 
However, this service is not aware of such technology.  And theres no evidence  within  the 
industry of technology  being used to obtain  a PIN. 
Considering all the evidence, I find, on balance, that Mr D authorised the disputed  
transactions. It follows that TSB is entitled to hold him liable  for them.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr D but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0134492