K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) have turned down 
their home insurance claim for damage  done to their home  by rats.
background
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs S made a claim under their home insurance policy for damage 
to their roof caused by rats. 
During the 18 months before  making  the claim they had heard unknown scratching noises in 
the roof. This affected Mr and Mrs S to the extent they couldnt sleep and became paranoid  
when hearing  noises in the house.  Life generally became uncomfortable for them.
A roofer came to look at the property and said there were rats in the roof. Some  work was 
done, but this didnt  fix the problem, indeed it made living conditions worse. 
In January 2019 the situation  had become so bad that Mr and Mrs S had repairs  done  to the 
roof costing £1,050. This fixed the problem, though they remained worried about  what  had 
happened, and that it might happen  again.
Mr and Mrs S then made a claim  under  their home  insurance policy  for the costs incurred 
repairing the roof, but it was turned down by L&G. They did this saying damage caused by 
vermin wasnt  covered  under the policy.
Mr and Mrs S complained to L&G who maintained that the claim wasnt covered. Unhappy 
with this Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service where one of our investigators 
looked into what happened. After  reviewing the policy,  and the details of what  had 
happened, he thought  L&G hadnt  acted unfairly when declining the claim. Mr and Mrs S 
didnt think this was a fair outcome, so the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr S has provided us with a lot of background information about himself, Mrs S, and their life 
in the house together.  Having lived in the house  for over 50 years,  which is most of their 
married life, what happened was clearly traumatic. Mr S paints a very clear  picture  about  
how the scratching  noises  at night made both of them paranoid, as well as affecting  both 
their physical and mental health. Being in their late 80s this is entirely understandable.
Hearing about  how Mr and Mrs S met, got married,  and their lives together  in the house 
really set the scene  about the level of impact this problem has had. Knowing plans for a 
special occasion  were affected was a poignant  reminder of just how much  the lives of 
Mr and Mrs S have  been disrupted. Having kept this matter from their children  mustve  
contributed to an already stressful situation.
Coming to a decision in a matter like this isnt something where  I can let my heart rule my 
head. If that was the case the outcome might  be different, but its not. 
Ref: DRN05755982Here I must firstly look at Mr and Mrs Ss policy to see what  it covers. Insurance policies 
cant, and dont, cover every eventuality.  Insurers are free to decide what events they wish to 
provide cover for under  a policy. They are also free to include exclusions in policies for 
events they dont want to cover. 
Mr and Mrs Ss policy doesnt cover damage  from vermin. Looking through the policy  I see 
this exclusion is highlighted in a section titled very important  notice.  Mr S quite rightly  points 
out that it is on page 18 of the policy, and he worries that other  unwary old fogies  might  be 
trapped by such  exclusions. 
I can see the concerns  here; however, having looked through the policy I think  the term is 
made clear. Its also worthy of note that this type of exclusion, for damage caused by vermin, 
is not unusual  with home insurance policies. Also, though I know in reality  this doesnt 
always happen, policyholders like Mr and Mrs S are asked  in the initial  documents,  as well 
as at renewal,  to check their documents carefully.
Mr and Mrs S paid £1,050  to have their roof repaired. I know  this had a financial impact  and 
was paid in instalments. However, looking at the policy Im satisfied this event isnt covered,  
so I wont be asking  for L&G to pay the claim.  
In their letters Mr and Mrs S asked for consideration to be given for a payment of £500  due 
to the mental  stress theyve endured. Ive no doubt  this situation continues  to have an impact  
and was very stressful, to say the least. Spending nights in the house wondering where the 
noises were coming from must have been  worrying, and Mr and Mrs S say they became 
paranoid at every sound. 
In order to consider  any payment like this the first step is that the event causing the problem 
would need to be covered  under the policy. But what happened here isnt covered. So, whilst 
the severe impact  of the situation has been made very clear by Mr and Mrs S, this isnt 
payment I can recommend.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr and Mrs S as I know this situation has affected  them  
deeply. However, having considered everything, Im satisfied L&G have  acted fairly  when  
applying the policy terms and turning down the claim.  I wish Mr and Mrs S all the best and 
do sincerely hope they have no similar problems in the future.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2020.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0575598