K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaints are about  two insurance policies sold to them  by Bank  of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS).  The policies were taken out in conjunction with a 
mortgage and further advances. 
In 2001 Mr and Mrs W were  sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  The policy 
covered them both against not being able to work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
In 2008 Mr and Mrs W were  sold a Total Mortgage  Payment Protection  (TMPP)  policy. A 
TMPP can provide life cover, critical illness cover as well as accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment cover. But this particular  TMPP only contained the life cover element.
background
In 2001 Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage  with BoS. At the same  time they were sold a PPI 
policy. The PPI covered both Mr and Mrs W against  either of them not being able to work 
due to an accident, sickness or unemployment.  The policy cost around £29.58 per month. In 
the event of a successful  claim the policy benefit  was £488.23 and wouldve been payable  
for up to 24 months.
In 2005 Mr and Mrs W took out a further advance of their mortgage. 
In 2008 Mr and Mrs W took another further  advance  of their mortgage.  At the same time they 
were sold a TMPP policy which gave  them both life cover only. The policy cost £46.61 per 
month and had an initial sum assured  of £110,519  which was the amount outstanding for the 
entire mortgage. The policy gave decreasing term cover, which meant  the sum assured 
gradually decreased  in line with the outstanding loan over the term of the mortgage.
In 2010 Mr and Mrs W cancelled the TMPP policy. In 2011  the PPI policy  was cancelled.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policies were  mis-sold. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
the 2001 PPI policy
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
The policy was sold over 17 years  ago so it isnt surprising that neither Mr and Mrs W nor 
BoS have copies of all the paperwork completed at the time. I also have to take into account  
that memories can fade over time. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, on what I think  is 
most likely to have happened. 
Ref: DRN04563902Mr and Mrs W have  told us they recall  being told they had to take the PPI policy to obtain the 
mortgage. Ive thought  about this. Ive taken into account what we know  about  how BoS sold 
these policies around this time and the documents weve seen in the past. And, on balance,  
the paperwork in these cases made  it clear to consumers  that the policy  was optional and 
they would  have been asked for their consent  to the cover.
I also note the policy  remained  in force for many  years until 2011. The premiums for the 
policy would either  have appeared on Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage  statements or their bank 
statements. If the policy was something they only took out to obtain the mortgage, Id expect  
them to have questioned it at an early  stage, but Ive not seen any evidence  they did so. The 
policy was recommended to them, so I do think its likely the BoS representative told them  
they should take out the PPI policy. But thats  different  to saying they had to.
Taking everything into account  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs W were  told they had a 
choice about whether  to buy the policy or not, and they chose to take it.
BoS says its adviser  should have recommended that Mr and Mrs W buy the policy.  In that 
case BoS had a duty to make sure it was right for them. And from what  Ive seen I think it 
was.
Both Mr and Mrs W seem to have been  eligible for the policy.  They  were  not affected  by 
anything the policy didnt cover such as medical  conditions they were already aware of.
Mr and Mrs W wouldve  received some  sick pay from their employers .But this particular PPI 
policy couldve paid a benefit for up to 24 months  in addition to their sick pay. Most likely that 
would be for much longer than any sick pay wouldve lasted. So if Mr or Mrs W had become 
unwell I think they wouldve  found  the policy useful, particularly  if they were  unable to work  
for a prolonged spell.
The policy would also pay a benefit  for up to 24 months if either Mr or Mrs W lost their job. 
Although they may have got some redundancy pay if that happened, the policy  would allow 
them to use any redundancy pay towards other  living  costs.  
As well as making sure the policy was right for Mr and Mrs W, BoS also had to give them  
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading.  
Its possible that BoS didnt give Mr and Mrs W all the information it shouldve. But from what 
Ive seen the policy was right for them and I think its likely  they were  interested  in this type 
of cover.  The cost of the policy seems to have been  comparable to other, similar policies  on 
the market at the time, and Ive not seen anything  to make me think  the premiums were not 
affordable. So even if BoS had given Mr and Mrs W clear information about the policy  and 
the premiums, I still think theyd have bought it.
In summary  I think its most likely  the policy was presented as optional and Mr and Mrs W 
chose to buy it. It looks like BoS recommended a policy that was right for them, and I dont 
think any clearer information wouldve made Mr and Mrs W change  their mind about  
applying for the policy. 
the TMPP policy sold in 2008
In 2008 Mr and Mrs W took out another further advance. It took their total mortgage  to 
£110,519. At the same  time Mr and Mrs W were  sold a TMPP policy. The TMPP contained  
Ref: DRN04563903only a life insurance element that covered both Mr and Mrs W for the full amount of the 
mortgage. The monthly premium was £46.61.
Mr and Mrs W have  said they were  told they needed  to take the policy in order  to obtain the 
further advance.
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage offer dated  12 April 2008. I can see there is a section 
headed Insurance,  which states, You do not need to buy any insurance through  Halifax.
It goes on to say that the only insurance  that was a condition of the offer was buildings 
insurance and that this could be obtained  from another provider.
There is also a welcome letter addressed to Mr and Mrs W which begins, Thank  you for 
choosing our Halifax Total Mortgage Protection  Plan. This letter sets out details of the cover 
and that it has been  accepted  by Mr and Mrs W.
BoS has also shown  us screenshots of its internal systems. And I can see there  is a record 
on file that Mr and Mrs W were given a quote for a TMPP that included  critical illness  cover  
but declined it as it was too expensive, choosing instead a life cover  only policy.  The notes 
also state that Mr and Mrs W had no life cover in place for the mortgage.
All this makes me think its most  likely a discussion took place about Mr and Mrs Ws 
mortgage protection needs. And they chose to accept  the BOS  representatives  
recommendation to take out the life cover policy.
As the policy was recommended  to them, BoS had a duty to make  sure it was right for them,  
and I think it was. It doesnt look like Mr or Mrs W had any existing life insurance  in place to 
cover the mortgage.  And the policy recommended seems to have  matched  their mortgage 
amount and term.
summary
Taking everything into account  I think its most  likely both policies were  presented  as 
optional and Mr and Mrs W chose to take them out. I also think  the policies were right for   
Mr and Mrs W based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. And even if BoS 
had given Mr and Mrs W all the clear information about the policies that it should have, I still 
think theyd have gone ahead and taken  them  out.
.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  Bank  of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Ref: DRN04563904Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0456390