K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited took too long to 
deal with a claim on her legal expenses insurance policy and then refused to provide cover.
background
On 3 October 2018 Miss P made  a claim on her policy to cover  the costs of a legal dispute  
concerning parking charges. She had a court  hearing listed for early  November.
DAS initially said the claim would be considered under the legal defence section  of her policy 
and asked for a copy of the court summons or charges. Miss P said it was a civil dispute not 
a criminal matter, so there were no charges against her.
Miss P contacted DAS again  after a couple  of weeks as she hadnt heard  anything.  She was 
again asked for information about charges and again explained that it wasnt  a criminal 
matter. She asked for a call back from a manager and when that didnt happen, she lodged  a 
complaint.
DAS replied on 24 October, saying her policy wouldnt cover the claim. It accepted there had 
been some  delay and poor service and paid £200  compensation for this.
Miss P wasnt satisfied with the response  and complained to this service. Our investigator  
said DAS was entitled to refuse cover as the policy terms  included exclusions that applied to 
her claim. He agreed there  had been delay but thought the compensation of £200  was 
enough in the circumstances. So he didnt ask DAS to do any more.
Miss P disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. She says the exclusion 
DAS has relied doesnt apply  to her case, so the claim  should  have  been  covered. Because 
cover wasnt  provided, she instructed a barrister to represent her and she wants  DAS to 
reimburse the fee she paid for this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for certain  types of legal dispute. As with all such policies, there  
are limits on whats  covered. 
There is cover for defending some types of criminal  cases. But this isnt a criminal case. 
Miss P wasnt prosecuted for a parking offence. So it should never have been  considered  on 
that basis.
The legal case is a civil dispute between Miss P and a private company over charges for 
parking on private  land.  The policy  provides cover  for contractual disputes  relating to buying 
or hiring  goods  or services. This is a very common type of cover in legal expenses policies. 
And as Miss P had a contract like this her claim was, on the face of it, something that might  
be covered. But the policy  has an exclusion for any contract involving a motor vehicle. 
Miss P says the exclusion  doesnt  apply but I dont agree. The contract  was to allow her to 
park her car on private land. So it clearly involved a motor  vehicle  it concerned  her car. 
Ref: DRN04400152The whole purpose of the contract was to allow her to park that vehicle. I dont see how it 
can be said the contract doesnt involve a motor vehicle. She says the dispute is about a 
contract she entered into relating to the use of land; the charges are for temporary 
occupation of land. But the occupation of the land was by her car.
For these reasons I think the exclusion applies  and so DAS was entitled  to refuse cover.
Although the claim wasnt covered, I agree there was some delay by DAS before it made the 
decision. Miss P contacted DAS on 3 October. She said that she had a court  hearing  in a 
months time. DAS asked  for information  that wasnt relevant. And when Miss P chased  for 
an update she didnt get a prompt reply. It was only after she made a complaint  that DAS 
reviewed the claim and said it wasnt covered.
DAS could have  dealt with the application sooner. If Miss P had received the decision earlier  
she would  have had more time to prepare  for court. Waiting for an answer and having to 
chase DAS would have been  frustrating.  And having only a short time to prepare for court  
would have caused some  distress  and inconvenience. Having said that, I note that the 
previous court order had been  made in July and Miss P didnt contact  DAS until October. 
And in any event, the claim wasnt covered.  Miss P arranged legal advice herself, which  is 
what she would have  had to do anyway. 
Taking all these factors into account I think the compensation  DAS paid of £200 is fair and 
so I dont think it needs to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0440015