K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Domestic & General  Insurance  Plc (D&G) automatically renewed  an 
extended warranty for her video  recorder  for 20 years and that she didnt  agree  to take the 
warranty out in the first place. 
background
Mrs C bought a video recorder from a well-known national retailer  in September  1990.  At the 
time of purchase she also bought an extended  five year warranty  from another insurer. 
Because the in-store cover didnt extend beyond five years, the retailer  invited D&G to offer 
her further  ongoing  cover,  renewable on an annual basis. Mrs C responded to D&Gs offer in 
1996 and the plan was set up after which it auto-renewed annually.  
In August  2017  Mrs C contacted D&G to ask why it was collecting money  from her. She 
thought the payment coming out of her joint account  had been  for life insurance. As she no 
longer needed the warranty, she cancelled it. In July 2018 Mrs C complained  to D&G. She 
said she didnt want or need the cover and in fact never knew  she had it. She said shed 
never been contacted by D&G or received any documentation and she said the video 
recorder had broken  years ago. She also said D&G  had been collecting the payments 
without authority so she wanted a full refund together with interest  which she said came to 
£4,441.05.
D&G looked into Mrs Cs complaint. It said the warranty had been  set up in 1996 in her 
maiden name at an address she said she moved from in 1994.  D&G said it was unaware it 
had the wrong  address for her so accepted that she wouldnt have received any renewal 
documentation which  couldve served  as a reminder that cover was in place. So, as a 
gesture of goodwill, it said it would refund her 50% of the premiums shed paid since the 
start of the plan.  A cheque was issued by D&G to Mrs C for £922.79.  
Unhappy with D&Gs offer Mrs C complained  to this service. D&G told us that its warranty  
hadnt been a continuation of the original extended warranty  Mrs C had taken out. 
Consequently she wouldve  needed  to agree to set up new payment details when its plan 
started. It thought this showed Mrs C had agreed to the cover. Mrs C said that shed not 
received any documents except for the original  paperwork  and the money was taken from a 
joint account she held.  She said the direct debit should never  have been set up because  
both account holders  didnt agree to it and the address was wrong.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Cs complaint but didnt  recommend that it was upheld. He 
thought that there mustve been  some communication with D&G for the policy  to be set up in 
the first place because  D&G had no access to the direct debit information  held by the retailer 
or the previous insurer. She thought  that the fact the premiums  were being debited  from her 
account monthly ought to have alerted her to the fact she was paying for the cover. 
Mrs C disagreed with our investigators findings.  She said the name and address of a payee 
is required before  a direct debit can be set up and as D&G had the wrong  name and address 
she didnt see how it had authority to do so. She also couldnt see how it couldve contacted 
her or sent her any policy terms and she certainly  hadnt contacted it. Mrs C said she hadnt  
moved house during the life of the policy. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN05095512my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs C I dont think her complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
There is no documentation  available from the time the warranty  was set up. Thats not 
unusual given how long ago it was. So I have to reach  my decision by weighing up what  the 
parties have said about  what happened from their point of view. 
Mrs C says she had no contact at all with D&G  about taking out this plan. She says it had 
the wrong address and wrong name  for her. D&G says the retailer  would pass on to it the 
names and contact details  for customers whose original warranties were about to expire  but 
never a customers bank details. So it says the only way it couldve got Mrs Cs was as a 
result of some form of contact between them. As the direct debit was set up  and access  to 
Mrs Cs bank account details was required to do so  its reasonable to think that some  
interaction between  Mrs C (or the joint account holder) and D&G must have taken place in 
1996. I fully accept that theres no documentation that could  prove this either way. But I dont 
think its likely that a plan couldve  been accidentally set up in Mrs Cs name using her 
correct bank details  and an address she had lived at without some kind of authority from her 
(or the joint account holder).  
Theres some evidence  (in the form of a transfer  deed) that Mrs C sold the property that 
D&G had as her correspondence address in 1994. This was before the plan was taken out. 
But I cant say with any certainty  because no documentation exists - why this error was 
never remedied and whose fault that may be.
But the fact it appears it wasnt  can explain why Mrs C didnt receive any renewal 
documents. The fact she didnt  meant she missed an opportunity  to be reminded she had  
and could cancel   the cover. D&G accepts this and this is why its offered to repay Mrs C 
50% of the total premiums she paid during the lifetime of the policy.  I think thats  fair. I dont 
accept Mrs Cs calculation for the premiums  shes paid (£2,502.17)  because  its based on 
the cost of the final years premiums not on what premiums  she was charged  through all the 
previous years the plan was in place.  Ive seen D&Gs calculation  and agree  that the total 
premiums collected came  to £1,845.58.
And in deciding that D&Gs decision to refund Mrs C 50% of the policy premiums is fair Ive 
taken into account  that the direct debits appeared on her bank statement each month. So its 
reasonable to think that the fact the payment was going out each month  ought  to have 
alerted her to the fact she was still paying for cover.  
I know that Mrs C says that both account holders must give their authority before a direct 
debit can be set up and that this certainly  didnt happen. But my understanding  is that this 
depends on how the account was set up. If Mrs C thinks the bank should have obtained both 
joint account holders  authority  for the direct debit and didnt do so, she should complain to 
her bank. That wouldnt be D&Gs fault. 
Taking all the circumstances of this complaint  into account I dont think, on balance,  that 
D&G has treated  Mrs C unfairly here.  I think that refunding 50% of the premiums  she paid is 
reasonable. Im not minded to make it pay her any more. 
Ref: DRN05095513my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0509551