K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that a car she has been  financing through an agreement with FirstRand 
Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo), has been of unsatisfactory  
quality. She also complains that MotoNovo  mis-sold her the finance.
background
Miss H has been represented  by her mother throughout this complaint but for ease I will 
refer to Miss H throughout this decision.
Miss H took receipt of a used car in February 2018.  She financed  the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car was about  nine years old 
and had already  completed close to 47,000 miles.
Miss H says shes  had problems with the car. From  the information  shes provided its clear  
the following  issues have  been dealt with by the dealership:
in March 2018 Miss H reported a knocking  noise from the steering. Top mounts and 
seals were replaced;
in May 2018 she reported a fuel leak and the knocking noise was still present;
in July 2018 she again reported a fuel leak and again reported the knocking noise. 
The fuel leak was repaired and a bolt was replaced  to remedy the knocking noise. 
Miss H complained to MotoNovo about these issues but they rejected her complaint  because  
they said there was no proof the faults she complained of were  present when the car was 
supplied to her: the point at which they said they were responsible for its quality.
She referred  her complaint to this service and she also complained  that the finance 
agreement had been mis-sold to her. She said she was on a zero hours contract  when it was 
approved and that it wasnt  affordable.
Our adjudicator provided his view. He understood that Miss H thought  shed returned her car 
to the dealership on more occasions than she could  provide written  evidence for but he 
didnt think that mattered. He thought the evidence that had been presented was sufficient to 
suggest there had been a problem with the car at the point of supply and that the dealership 
had failed to repair the car. He noted that within the first six months the car had been back  to 
them on three occasions to have the knocking  fixed and that there were two requests to 
remedy the fuel leak. He said that in those  circumstances he was persuaded that there  was 
a fault with the car, at the point of supply, that hadnt  been remedied and that MotoNovo 
should therefore allow Miss H to reject the car.
To put things right he suggested that MotoNovo should  cancel the agreement; collect the car 
and pay Miss H £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused. He 
didnt think it would  be fair to ask MotoNovo  to refund any of the finance instalments Miss H 
had paid as he noted shed had fair use of the car. 
He went on to explain that MotoNovo should report the agreement  as settled on Miss Hs 
credit file but he didnt  think  they needed to remove  any missed  payment markers as he 
noted Miss H had failed  to keep up with payments. He wasnt  persuaded that there  was 
sufficient evidence the agreement had been  mis-sold to Miss H. 
Ref: DRN09324812MotoNovo didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion. They thought  there was no evidence 
the issues Miss H complained of were present at the point  of supply and they said shed 
never complained to them about  mis-selling. If she wished to do so they said she would 
need to address those concerns to them in the first instance. They  asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint MotoNovo so please  let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss H acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Miss H. The car 
here was around  nine years old and had already travelled about 47,000 miles but I dont  
think a reasonable  person would think a fuel leak or a knocking  noise  from the steering was 
acceptable, even  in a car of this age and mileage.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right. 
But MotoNovos responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Im persuaded that the faults with the knocking  noise and with the fuel leak were  most likely 
to have been present or developing  at the point  of supply. I say that because Miss H 
reported them to the dealership soon after she took receipt of the car.
Ref: DRN09324813In those circumstances relevant  legislation allows MotoNovo one opportunity to repair the 
problem. But here, the car has been back to the dealership on two further occasions and the 
problems have clearly  remained unresolved.  
So I think it would now be fair to allow Miss H to reject  the car. Id agree with the adjudicator 
that its clear Miss H has had reasonable use from the vehicle  so I dont think  it would be fair 
to ask them to repay  any of the finance instalments  shes made.
But Miss H has been  inconvenienced by matters. Shes had to return  the vehicle on several 
occasions and has had to pursue her claim through this service and provide her own 
evidence of faults when job cards havent  been provided by the business. I think MotoNovo 
should compensate  her for that distress and inconvenience and, in the circumstances, I 
would agree that they should  pay Miss H £100.
Its usual in these  circumstances for this service to ask for any deposit  to be repaid.  I see no 
reason not to suggest that here as well and MotoNovo  should  add interest  to that payment 
as Miss H has been deprived of that money whilst funding  an unsatisfactory vehicle.
I understand that Miss H has struggled to make payments towards her agreement. Some of 
those payments may be due to her financial  difficulties but some may, I think  its reasonable 
to suggest, be due to her having had the need to raise  a complaint which should have been 
satisfactorily resolved  earlier.  For clarity I would ask MotoNovo to remove any adverse 
reports they may have  made to Miss Hs credit file from the date upon which  she made her 
complaint about  the cars quality which, according to their final response on the matter, was 
28 November 2018. 
Miss H has complained to us about the agreement being mis-sold  but MotoNovo have 
confirmed that part of Miss Hs complaint has never been made to them. Its only fair that 
MotoNovo are able to consider the complaint before its referred  to this service. Im therefore 
unable to consider  any mis-selling in this decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell FirstRand  Bank 
Limited to:
end the finance agreement with nothing further to pay. Although arrears will still be 
payable;
collect the car at no cost to Miss H;
pay Miss H £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  been 
caused;
refund  any deposit Miss H paid and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Hs credit  file from 
28 November 2018.
Ref: DRN09324814Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0932481