K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Blackfinch Investments Limited  (trading as AVD Wealth) 
didnt provide sufficient  information about  the maturity  value of a traded endowment policy  
before it matured.
background
Mr and Mrs B invested £28,000  in an AVD Wealth Portfolio in April 2012 on an execution 
only basis. The advice to invest  in this portfolio was given by an IFA, Mr G, who is 
representing Mr and Mrs B in this complaint. The asset behind  the portfolio was a traded 
endowment plan (TEP)  which was due to mature in July 2015. The purchase price of the 
TEP was £23,649  the remaining funds were  to be used to cover the remaining policy  
premiums and AVD Wealths servicing fees.
The policy matured on 1 July 2015  and Mr and Mrs B were paid the TEPs maturity value of 
£25,474.20.
In May 2017  Mr G raised a complaint on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf  about the information 
provided regarding  the plans ongoing returns and value. He said as the plan owner, 
AVD Wealth should  have been  able to obtain a valuation  from the plan provider showing the 
annual bonuses to date and the current final bonus. This wouldve provided Mr and Mrs B 
with an accurate valuation and given  them the opportunity to sell the portfolio if the returns 
were poor. Mr G considered this was an important part of the portfolio administration and 
service agreement Mr and Mrs B had agreed to when the portfolio was sold.
AVD Wealth believed it had fulfilled the terms of the service agreement, which  included  
providing annual  valuations, handling premium  payments and the plan maturity. But it 
recognised the information provided about the valuation was not as comprehensive as it 
could have been, which might have been helpful  to Mr and Mrs B. So, it offered a refund of 
the administration fees Mr and Mrs B had paid, totalling £412.93.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  accept this and referred the complaint to our service. They  said they 
werent made aware of any potential underperformance or loss prior to maturity. They also 
felt the plan providers statements, which were far more detailed,  should have been passed 
on to them.  Mr and Mrs B said not having  these  statements meant they couldnt make an 
informed decision about whether or not to surrender the plan. They wanted full 
compensation for their loss.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he considered AVD Wealth  had met its 
obligations under  the service agreement. Mr and Mrs B didnt accept this and asked for a 
final decision  on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I realise this will be disappointing  for Mr and Mrs B, so Id like to explain why.
Having seen a copy of the statement issued  to AVD Wealth by the plan provider, I can see 
why Mr and Mrs B are frustrated that they also didnt receive  a copy of this. The statement 
Ref: DRN04848222shows the annual  bonus and the current final bonus rate, so it allows  Mr and Mrs B to gain a 
more accurate view of what the maturity value could be. While it would have been helpful  for 
AVD Wealth to have  passed these statements on, I dont think  they were  obliged to under 
the service agreement or the relevant regulations.
At the time the investment was arranged,  the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  (FCA) Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS) applied. COBS 16.4.1 said:
A firm that holds client designated investments or client money for a client must send that 
client at least once  a year a statement in a durable  medium of those designated investments 
or that client  money  unless such a statement has been provided in a periodic statement.
COBS 16.4.2 goes on to say:
A firm must include in a statement of client assets  referred to under this section the following 
information:
1)details of all the designated investments or client money held by the firm for the client  
at the end of the period covered  by the statement;
2)the extent to which any client designated investments or client  money have been the 
subject of securities financing transactions; and
3)the extent of any benefit  that has accrued to the client by virtue of participation  in any 
securities financing  transactions,  and the basis on which that benefit  has accrued.
Under the service  agreement  it says AVD Wealth would provide annual  statements 
regarding the value of the policy,  which is consistent  with the above regulations.  From the 
evidence Ive seen,  AVD Wealth provided statements on the following dates:
8 March 2013
18 February 2014
1 September  204
27 March 2015
So, I think its clear AVD Wealth  met its obligation to provide annual statements. I can see it 
also began  to issue half yearly statements from 1 September  2014, going beyond what  was 
agreed in the service  agreement and what the regulations required.
The statements  provided a current portfolio  value,  which is different to the plan maturity  
value. It also included  the following information:
The current  portfolio value is based on purchasing a similar  portfolio in the current  market. It 
results from a projected end value,  which is based  upon the value of the most  recently  
matured policies, with Interest deducted as per a discount factor for the valuation date. The 
discount factor is determined from the current supply and demand situation  in the Traded 
Endowment Policy market. A future increase or decrease in the level of maturity  pay outs 
would in turn lead to a lower or higher end value, which  would also either negatively or 
positively affect  the current value of the policy.
It also reminded Mr and Mrs B that the current portfolio value included the money retained in 
the client account to cover  the premiums and service  charges.
Ref: DRN04848223Overall, I dont  think the statements were misleading. They explained  that the value was 
based on purchasing a similar portfolio in the current  market,  not the actual maturity value of 
the plan. It also made Mr and Mrs B aware that the value of the portfolio could go up or 
down. The service  agreement didnt specify that a maturity value would be provided,  nor is it 
a requirement under  the regulations to do so. Furthermore, given this was a TEP, I dont 
think it was unreasonable that the valuation provided was a market  valuation. If 
Mr and Mrs B required further information  about  the policy, including the maturity value and 
bonus rates,  I think they could have asked  for this. 
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs B are disappointed  with the overall performance I think  
consideration has to be given  to the price  they purchased the plan for, which  was £23,649. 
Although they invested £28,000  in the portfolio, £2,754.95 was payable in premiums, with 
the remaining  sum covering AVD Wealths service fees. Part of the premium  paid for life 
cover of £40,000, which Mr and Mrs B would  have benefitted from had the original 
policyholders passed away before the plan matured. So, I dont  think its fair to say that 
receiving less than the £28,000 invested at maturity  represents a total loss.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, Ive also had to consider whether Mr and Mrs B would 
have surrendered the plan if theyd been  given  more specific  information about  the value 
based on the annual bonuses and final bonus payable. On balance, I dont think  they would 
have done so. This is because having  only taken the investment for around three years,  and 
having paid funds towards it, I dont think they wouldve wanted to forfeit  the final bonus  and 
potentially receive  a lower  sum than they would have on maturity of the plan. I also havent 
seen any evidence to show  that if Mr and Mrs B had surrendered  the plan they would have 
actually suffered any loss. 
For this reason, I think the offer made  by AVD Wealth to refund the administration fees is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
Blackfinch Investments Limited has made an offer to pay Mr and Mrs B £412.93. I conclude 
that such an offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision is that Blackfinch Investments Limited should pay Mr and Mrs B £412.93.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0484822