K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Everest Limited misrepresented  the terms of a finance agreement  for 
which it acted as credit broker. She wants compensation.
background
Mrs S is represented in this complaint by her son. For ease of reading Ill mostly  refer to Mrs 
S.
Mrs S tells us she wished to take out a fixed sum loan agreement to pay for new windows 
and doors.  She says she wanted to repay the loan over 10 months and that this was agreed 
with the Everest  representative. She says the loan agreement was financed  by a company 
Ill refer to as C. But when she received  the written details of the agreement from C it 
showed that the loan was due to be repaid over 60 months and not the 10 months she had 
thought. She feels the loan was misrepresented by Everests  representative.
Everest told us it didnt offer repayments  of loans over a ten months period. And that it only 
offered repayments  over 60 or 120 months. But it said it was possible its agent  had referred  
to the possibility of overpayments being made which could bring the repayment  period 
down to ten months.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said she wasnt  able 
to say what was discussed at the point of sale and so felt it was fair to rely on the agreement 
which had been  signed by Mrs S. She said this had clearly set out that the repayments  were 
required over 60 months.  And she pointed  out that overpayments could be made without 
penalty.
Mr S, on behalf of Mrs S, expressed dissatisfaction with this outcome. He said he didnt  feel 
the complaint  had been fully investigated and emphasised that he was telling the truth about  
the details which had been  agreed. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint  an 
ombudsman has been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that the original  complaint made by Mr S on behalf  of his mother, comprised of 
two main elements.  The first of these related to the delay in the completion of the relevant 
works. The second concerned the alleged misrepresentation of the terms of the finance 
agreement.
Our investigator has explained  that as this complaint  is against  Everest,  we cant  look at the 
first aspect.  Everest is only potentially liable for issues which  arise  from its role as credit 
broker of the agreement.  Complaints regarding quality and service  issues  relating to the 
installation of the goods can be made against the lender. But as the lender here is C that 
would require a separate complaint. My decision will therefore,  deal only with Everests  role 
as credit broker.
Im sorry  Mrs S has experienced the upset  and inconvenience of discovering  the terms of 
her loan were not what she thought had been agreed.
Ref: DRN01907832Where evidence is unclear or incomplete  - as some of it is here - Im required to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. That is to say I decide what  is the most  probable  
explanation to account for whats happened. I should also explain that I dont  apply the law -
directly - but I do take it into account.
This complaint alleges that the terms of the finance agreement  were misrepresented by 
Everests representative. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact - which  is relied 
upon by the consumer - and results in them entering  an agreement.
As credit broker (intermediary), Everest  is liable if there was a misrepresentation regarding 
the terms of the finance agreement which led to Mrs S taking out the agreement and 
incurring a loss as the result of the misrepresentation.
The main  point of dispute here is what was said and agreed  in discussions with Everests  
representative. I dont  doubt that Mrs S wished to take out an agreement which was 
repayable over 10 months. Nor do I doubt that she and Mr S believed that was what  had 
been agreed. Theres no suggestion that they are not telling the truth in providing their 
recollections of the conversation. But its not uncommon for parties  to the same  conversation  
to have different  recall  of the precise  detail. The representative no longer works for Everest  
so I havent received his account.  But I dont think  that makes any difference  to my decision.
Ive seen a copy  of the finance agreement that seems to have been signed  electronically by 
Mrs S on 13 February 2018. This clearly sets out that repayments are to be made  over 60 
months. And I can see that C also sent a letter,  also dated 13 February,  which confirms that 
it is the finance provider of the loan to pay for the goods Mrs S purchased.  This also refers to 
the flexibility of the loan and states that the loan attracts  daily interest. It goes on to explain 
that overpayments can be made  which will both reduce the term of the loan and the amount  
of interest paid.
Mr S accepts that he didnt read this carefully  enough and was unable to advise his mother  
as to the differences in what they thought had been  agreed. As the information was provided  
I cant say Everest can be held responsible for the fact that it was not fully understood for 
several weeks. But in any event I dont think its resulted in any loss being  incurred.
I think the most probable explanation is that theres  been a misunderstanding  as to exactly  
what was said and understood  between  the parties at the time of the pre-sale discussions.  It 
seems improbable  that a representative would not be aware that his company only offered 
two options regarding the length of the loans it brokered. And Im equally sure that Mrs S 
and Mr S made it clear  they wanted  the loan to be paid over 10 months.
The law relating  to fixed sum loan agreements requires lenders to accept  early  repayments 
and to reduce  interest payments accordingly.  Id assume a representative would  be aware of 
this. The relevant legislation is to be found  in the Consumer  Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004. In summary,  it provides that where a consumer wishes to repay a loan, in 
whole or in part, prior to the due date, then the lender must remit the relevant part of any 
interest due as a result  of the early repayment.
Ref: DRN01907833I think the most probable explanation is that there was a misunderstanding  as to how (not if) 
the loan could be paid off over ten months. And theres nothing  inconsistent with Mrs S and 
Mr S saying she was told the agreement  could be repaid over ten months and the 
agreement that was actually signed.  As such I dont  think  the agreement  was 
misrepresented. Its also my understanding that Mr S has assisted his mother  to repay  the 
loan - and as this wouldve resulted in less interest being payable  theres  no evidence of 
actual loss.
In summary,  I dont think there was a misrepresentation  of the agreement. I accept there 
may have  been  a misunderstanding as to the particular process of how the loan could be 
paid off over the ten month  period  which was desired by Mrs S. But I dont  see this resulted 
in any financial loss. So Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0190783