K820x#14complaint
Miss P has complained  about  Southern Rock Insurance Companys handling of her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Southern  Rock includes their agents.
background
Miss P had third party fire and theft (TPFT) car insurance with Southern  Rock.  In November 
2017, she had an accident with another car. As she was pulling  out from a parked position 
another car was travelling towards  her from behind. As the other car passed Miss P, the 
front right hand  side of her car came into contact  with the rear left hand side of the other car. 
The other driver claimed for the damage  to his car and for whiplash injury.
The other drivers car was a total loss because it was uneconomical to repair  it. 
Southern Rock held Miss P responsible for the accident and paid the other drivers claim. 
Miss P complained. She said the accident wasnt her fault.  She said she checked to make 
sure it was safe for her to slowly pull out but the other driver was speeding. She said there 
was only a scuff to her car and a small dent to the other car. Miss P also complained that: 
Southern Rock decided she was at fault before even speaking  with the two independent 
witnesses; the other car couldnt have  been a total loss; the other driver couldnt have 
suffered injury; and that Southern Rocks  service  was poor.
Southern Rock didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. Miss P didn't think that was fair so she 
brought her complaint  to us. One of our adjudicators looked into it. He felt that 
Southern Rock had dealt  with Miss P fairly.  As Miss P didnt  agree with our adjudicator, her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Miss P, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
In her complaint, Miss P has made a number  of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Southern Rock have dealt with Miss P in a fair and reasonable way.
the accident and settling  the claim
Under the policy, Southern Rock have the discretion to settle claims as they feel appropriate. 
But I expect them to exercise that discretion in a fair and reasonable way. It isnt my 
responsibility to decide  who was at fault for the accident. I can only look to see if 
Southern Rocks decision to hold Miss P responsible was fair.
From the descriptions of the incident from Miss P, the other driver and the two witnesses, it 
was clear that Miss P was trying  to pull out from a parked position while the other  driver  was 
already established and driving on the road.  It was therefore Miss Ps responsibility to 
ensure she could pull out onto the road safely. Miss P and the two independent  witnesses 
said that as Miss P was pulling out the other driver  was speeding. But even if the other  driver  
was speeding  that doesnt in itself mean he was at fault. I understand the stretch of road the 
Ref: DRN09338612accident happened on was straight with no bends.  So, I think  Miss P would have had sight  of 
the road and the car behind her if she looked. Had the other driver been travelling at an 
extreme speed, it might have been the case that even if Miss P checked the road behind 
her, by the time she pulled out the other car would  have  made  up so much ground  in a short 
space of time that Miss P might not have had enough time to react. But the evidence  is thats  
not the case.
The female witness said the other car was travelling  just a little bit over the speed  limit. The 
male witness  said that road had a 30 mph speed limit and the other  driver was going over 
30 mph. So the evidence  doesnt  suggest the other  driver  was going extremely fast. Also, 
both those witnesses  are simply estimating what speed they think the car was travelling at. 
Neither can be certain of the exact  speed  the other car was doing, so I can't be certain  
whether or not the other car was speeding. I therefore think Southern  Rock  decision that 
Miss P was responsible for the accident was reasonable. Thats  because the responsibility to 
ensure it was safe to pull out was with Miss P, even if the other driver was driving in excess 
of the speed limit. 
Ive seen the engineers report on the other drivers car. The engineer estimated the cost of 
repairing the damage to be over £1,700.  And the market value of the car was a little over 
£2,300. So, the decision was made that while it was possible  to repair the car, it was 
uneconomical to do so. It is normal insurance industry practice  to treat a car as a total loss 
once the estimated cost of repair is a high proportion  of the cars value. The decision that the 
other drivers  car was a total loss was therefore  reasonable.
Miss P also disputed that the driver could have been  injured  as a result  of the accident. The 
evidence is that the other  driver was travelling over 30 mph.  And that Miss P pulled out 
causing her cars front right hand side to come  into contact  with the other  drivers rear left 
hand side. Miss P said the contact was minimal but the female witness said she heard a 
bang. So, I think its inevitable that the other drivers car would have been jolted given the 
impact. The driver didnt  claim that he suffered serious injury but he said it was soft tissue  
injury, often referred to as whiplash. And the other  driver did provide  Southern  Rock  with 
medical evidence  supporting  his injury. In those  circumstances, I think it was reasonable for 
Southern Rock to accept  the claim and pay compensation.
Southern Rock have experience in dealing with cases like this and I think  they settled after 
reasonably investigating the claim.  They took into consideration the information Miss P gave 
them; the other drivers  account; what the independent witnesses said; the engineering  
evidence; and the medical evidence.  So, I think Southern Rocks decision was reasonable.
If Southern Rock didnt settle  the claim as they did, the only way of challenging the other  
driver would  have been to take the matter to court. For the reasons explained above, 
Southern Rock would have felt that if this matter went to court they had a poor chance of 
succeeding. I dont  expect insurers to take disputes  to court  that are unlikely to succeed. So, 
I think their decision not to take the matter to court, and potentially incur significant  costs in 
doings so, was reasonable. 
other issues and poor service
Miss P wasnt happy that Southern Rock told her she was responsible for the accident even 
before they had spoken with the independent witnesses. Its correct that Southern  Rock  felt 
Miss P was to blame before they spoke with the witnesses. But I can understand why they 
formed that view when  they did, because from Miss Ps own account  of what  happened,  and 
Ref: DRN09338613with Southern Rocks  knowledge of similar  accidents  and how the courts  view them, they felt 
she was responsible. And Southern  Rock  maintained their view after speaking with the 
witnesses. So, I cant say they did anything wrong.
Miss P said that when  Southern Rock  wrote to one of the witnesses asking them  to complete 
a witness form they failed to enclose the form which wasted time. While  I accept  that 
shouldnt have happened, Im afraid  that mistakes like that do sometimes happen. And 
Southern Rock quickly rectified that by sending the form.
Miss P also said that Southern Rock changed  the female witness  evidence. She said when 
she received the witness statement it was different to what  the witness  had told Miss P. 
Miss P said the witness had told her the other  driver was driving well over the speed limit. 
But I have listened  to that witness  call to Southern Rock and what  she said was the other 
driver was driving just a little bit over the speed  limit. Miss P also said Southern  Rock  mis-
spelt the witnesses  name  which is unprofessional.  But I dont think mis-spelling the witness  
name had any bearing on the outcome of the claim.
Miss P feels that Southern Rock  have unfairly tried to hold her responsible  for the accident  
from the start. But Southern Rock had no benefit in doing that. By holding Miss P 
responsible for the accident Southern Rock had to pay for the other cars total loss and for 
the other drivers claim for injury, the total of which ran into several thousands of pounds. 
Had Miss P been found not at fault Southern Rock wouldnt have paid those costs. So, if 
there was a way of finding Miss P wasnt at fault I think  Southern  Rock  would  have wanted  to 
do that to avoid having to pay the costs  Ive mentioned.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020. 
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0933861