K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains about how Calpe  Insurance Company Limited  handled a claim made  on 
her motor insurance policy.
background
Miss F was involved in an accident with another driver. Her policy  excess was £3,000. Calpe 
said that her car was valued as less than this, so she didnt have a valid claim to make. But 
Miss F had to pay her excess and Calpe deducted her cars value from this, leaving her 
owing £200. Calpe said the salvage  belonged  to Miss F and so it said she should pay £702 
for this. But Miss F was unhappy that she didnt receive a payment for her car, with the 
valuation of her car and the salvage value.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Calpe 
had assessed  the cars  pre-accident market value correctly according to the policy terms and 
conditions and our approach.  This was less than the policy  excess, so he thought Miss F 
owed Calpe £200 after the deduction of the cars  value. And, as no valid claim had been  
made, he thought  Miss F should  retain  the salvage.  He thought  its value had been fairly  
assessed. 
Miss F replied that she thought the policy had been mis-sold. She also said the other drivers 
claim was for £2,400  yet Calpe said it had paid out £3,352.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Miss Fs accident.  I can understand that this has had financial 
repercussions for her. Her policy premium  was £4,000, and now she has lost her car and still 
has to pay Calpe £902 in settlement of her claim.  She also now has to dispose  of the 
salvage. 
Miss F thought her policy had been  mis-sold  to her by her broker.  But I cant consider that 
here as its a separate business. I can see that another  complaint has been raised against 
the broker regarding  this concern.
Miss F thought Calpes  offer for her car was too low. She said shed found cars like hers 
advertised for higher prices. She thought Calpe had kept its valuation below £3,000, the 
policy excess, to avoid a valid claim from her. But I havent seen any evidence  to show  this. I 
think Calpe  used an independent assessor to value Miss Fs car. 
The investigator has explained this services approach  to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers  offer is reasonable. I think  Miss Fs 
policy provides for her cars  market  value in the case of its total loss. This is defined in the 
policy and is in keeping  with our approach. 
Ref: DRN03288602In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
Our investigator thought Calpes settlement offer was fair and reasonable. I can see that he 
checked the motor-trade guides we use for cars of the same make,  model, condition,  age, 
mileage and options as Miss Fs. This gave valuation in keeping with Calpes offer of £2,800. 
So I think Calpes valuation of Miss Fs car was made correctly according to our approach 
and the policy terms and conditions. So I think its fair and reasonable.
Miss F said shed found cars like hers advertised for higher prices.  But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive  as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices.  
The valuation was less than the policy excess.  So Calpe explained to Miss F that she didnt 
have a valid claim. But it did deduct  her cars  valuation from the excess  payable,  leaving 
Miss F owing £200. I think thats correct and making a claim has benefited Miss F. 
Calpe also said the salvage still belonged to Miss F. It said Miss F should pay it a further 
£702 for this. 
As no valid claim had been  made, then I think the salvage belongs  to Miss F and its value 
should be deducted from her settlement for the cars value. I think  the salvage value was 
correctly arrived at as it was made by an expert  engineer and in keeping  with other insurers  
approach. So I cant say its unfair or unreasonable. As Miss F owns the salvage,  then I think  
its for her to arrange  for its disposal.  
Miss F said the other insurer had said its costs were  £2,400 yet Calpe said its outlay  was 
£3,352. Calpe has explained to us that the other insurers costs  were for the repairs  to the 
other drivers  car. Calpe also incurred costs  for car hire and engineers. But it said this 
doesnt affect how much its asking  Miss F to pay. I think thats fair and reasonable as I think 
the amount Calpe has calculated Miss Fs owes it, based on the policy terms and conditions, 
is correct. . 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0328860