K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them an 
Additions Plus packaged bank account  in December 2004. They paid a monthly fee for the 
account which provided several  benefits in return.
background
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Barclays mis-sold the packaged  account  to Mr and 
Mrs M and didnt recommend that Barclays should pay them any compensation. Mr and Mrs 
M didnt agree so they asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  a lot of thought, I dont think the Additions Plus 
account was mis-sold  to them.  Ill explain  why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs M was given a fair choice when they took 
their packaged bank account.
Mr and Mrs M held a fee-free account  before upgrading  to the Additions  Plus account. 
Theyve said the account was sold during a telephone call with Barclays, and that Barclays  
recommended the account to them.
I dont know exactly what was said during the telephone call, but I do think  its more  likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs M wouldve known  they didnt have to upgrade their account. I also 
think theyd have expected to get something in return for the monthly fee, and they wouldnt 
have agreed to pay it if they werent  happy  to do so.
Barclays says recommended the packaged account  to Mr and Mrs M. So it needed to check 
that the benefits were suitable  for them, taking into account their circumstances.
At the time of the sale the main benefits of the Additions Plus were car breakdown cover,  
worldwide travel insurance, and an interest-free overdraft portion.
When they raised their complaint with this service Mr and Mrs M told us about  their 
circumstances. Theyve  said they had a car, and also travelled worldwide a few times  a year. 
I cant see anything about their other circumstances that wouldve meant they werent 
eligible to rely on or make  a claim on the accounts  main insurance benefits, such as their 
age, or any pre-existing  medical  conditions. So I dont think that Barclays  made an unfair 
recommendation when it sold the Additions  Plus to Mr and Mrs M.
Ref: DRN03233702Barclays also had to give Mr and Mrs M enough  clear information about the Additions Plus 
account for them to decide whether they wanted  it. And Ive noted that their main complaint 
point seems to be in relation to this. Theyve said that they werent given enough  information  
about the exclusions on the car breakdown cover policy and the travel insurance policy, 
which led to declined claims.
Our adjudicators explained why they didnt think the account had been mis-sold, but invited 
Mr and Mrs M, and their representative, to provide us with more  detail about  the declined  
claims theyve  mentioned. They also noted that due to the time thats  passed,  theres  not a 
lot of information available, so its hard to conclude that Barclays  did something wrong, 
without any further  details or evidence.
Whilst its entirely possible that Mr and Mrs M did have a travel  insurance claim declined, 
without any further  information about  that, it doesnt  necessarily  make me think the account  
was mis-sold. Not all insurance  claims are successful, but that doesnt necessarily mean that 
the insurance in question  wasnt  right for the policyholders from the outset. And as Ive 
explained, I think the account  was right for Mr and Mrs M based on what I know of their 
circumstances, and I cant see any overarching  concerns that wouldve affected their ability 
to claim on the policies.
Whilst I dont think  the account  was mis-sold, I havent made a decision on whether the 
travel insurance provider was right to decline Mr and Mrs Ms travel insurance claim. I note 
that Barclays has set up a separate complaint for that specific issue, which Mr and Mrs M 
can pursue separately  to this complaint about the mis-sale of their Additions  Plus account.
Ive also seen that Mr and Mrs s representative  said they werent  informed that the 
accounts mobile phone insurance  policy would only provide a refurbished mobile phone  in 
the event of a claim. Theyve also said they werent  informed  the accounts  car breakdown  
cover policy provided a basic level of cover, which wasnt  suitable  for them.
As the Additions  Plus account  didnt include mobile  phone insurance when it was sold, this 
point doesnt affect my thoughts on whether the account was mis-sold to them.  I also dont 
know what Mr and Mrs M were told about the accounts breakdown cover,  but I havent seen 
that theyve been affected by what they were or werent told about  the breakdown cover  
because I cant see that theyve made any call-outs. So this also doesnt  change my 
decision.
I accept that its possible  that Barclays didnt tell Mr and Mrs M everything it should  have  
about the Additions Plus account. And I understand that with hindsight they might not feel 
like it was good value  for money to them as they didnt make  as much  use of all of its 
benefits as they could  have. But for the reasons Ive explained I havent seen enough to 
make me think that Mr and Mrs M wouldnt  still have  taken the account,  even  if Barclays  had 
told them  more about it.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs M that Ive looked at all the information  I have  about  their 
complaint. And Ive thought about everything  theyve said.  But having done  so I dont think  
Barclays mis-sold  the Additions  Plus account to them. So I dont think  it owes them  any 
money.
Ref: DRN03233703my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0323370