K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  (L&G). Hes unhappy 
with charges that have been  applied to his pension.
background
Mr W had a personal pension plan (PPP) with a provider Ill refer to as Provider N. In 2008, 
following a business  decision, some of Provider  Ns plans, including  Mr Ws, were 
transferred to L&G. The change didnt impact  Mr Ws PPP in any way and it continued to be 
administered in line with the terms and conditions  applicable  when  he originally took out the 
plan with Provider N.
Having received an annual statement for his PPP and noticed charges applied,  Mr W wrote 
to L&G on 14 November  2010. In summary  he said:
when he originally took out his plan Provider N had never  mentioned a £2.75  monthly  
plan fee. He asked for this and any other charges be refunded
Provider N never told him when he took out his plan that hed be dumped halfway 
though the policy and transferred
he wanted to know of any penalties that would be applied  if he transferred to another 
provider
he felt let down  and betrayed by Provider  N
L&G responded to Mr W on 19 November 2010,  saying all charges applicable to his plan 
were detailed in the terms and conditions he wouldve been supplied with when he took out 
his plan with Provider  N. L&G confirmed the charges were non-refundable and reminded Mr 
W that it continued  to administer his plan under the terms  and conditions  set by Provider N. 
It confirmed Mr W could transfer to another provider without any charge.
On 15 November 2013 L&G wrote to Mr W. It said that following Mr Ws request, his plan 
had been made paid up. L&G confirmed that in line Mr Ws original plan conditions, charges 
would continue to be applied.
L&G wrote to Mr W on 2 February 2016.  In summary it said:
plans like Mr Ws, which were  administered on a third-party system, were  becoming 
increasingly difficult to support
following a review,  it had decided to close the PPP Scheme, meaning Mr Ws plan 
could no longer remain in the Scheme. It was providing Mr W with 90 days  notice of 
its intention to make this change so he had time to consider his options
one of Mr Ws options was to transfer to L&Gs Stakeholder Pension Scheme
Mr W had until 4 May 2016 to tell it what he wanted to do. Unless he said otherwise, 
it would  transfer  his pension pot to L&Gs Stakeholder Pension Scheme on 10 May 
2016
Enclosed with L&Gs  letter  to Mr W was a Personal  Illustration,  Stakeholder Key Features 
document and a Questions and Answers leaflet.
Mr W responded to L&G confirming he wished to transfer to L&Gs  Stakeholder plan. Further 
to this L&G provided Mr W with his cancellation  rights and invited  him to contact it within  30 
Ref: DRN07540342days if anything was unclear. Mr Ws PPP funds were later transferred to a Stakeholder  Plan 
with L&G.
In 2019 Mr W spoke  to L&G about concerns he had regarding his plan. He expressed  
dissatisfaction about charges being applied to his plan. L&G provided its final response  on 
the matter on 17 May 2019. In summary it said:
it noted Mr W wrote to it in 2010 to request a refund of charges hed said he hadnt 
been made aware of. In its response  L&G explained the charges were in line with the 
terms of the contract which was originally set up by Provider N and that they were 
non-refundable
in November 2013 Mr W contacted it about  stopping his contributions and it had 
written to him on 15 November 2013 to confirm his plan was paid up. Again, it was 
confirmed that charges  would  continue to be applied
when it started Mr Ws Stakeholder  pension, it wrote to him confirming the key 
features of the plan, including details of charges
it didnt agree that it had acted inappropriately or that Mr W wasnt  made aware of the 
charges on his plan
if Mr W had concerns  about what he was told about charges when Provider  N 
originally sold his plan,  hed need to contact Provider N directly
Unhappy with L&Gs response, Mr W referred  his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered  the matter and said she didnt think  L&G had done anything wrong. 
In summary  she said L&G had made Mr W aware  of the charges applicable to his plan.
Mr W disagreed  with our investigator and said he didnt  feel L&G were treating him fairly. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Id first like to say Im sorry to hear of the health  issues Mr W is experiencing, particularly his 
heart condition. I understand that hes found  his dealings with L&G overwhelming at times 
and in some  instances  frustrating. I have sympathy  for Mr W and appreciate  how important it 
is for him to understand how his L&G plan works and what his options are. The efforts hes 
made in this respect are understandable.
While I appreciate Mr Ws concerns about  what has happened here,  I should  be clear that 
my decision  centres on L&Gs actions only. Mr Ws assertion  that Provider N failed to inform 
him of the charges applicable to his PPP when it was originally sold is something hell need 
to direct to Provider N if he wishes to take this forward. As Mr W will be aware, L&G didnt 
sell his PPP.  Therefore,  it wasnt responsible  for any PPP charges  set at the outside or 
information Mr W was (or wasnt)  given at the time.
Turning now to the charges Mr W feels L&G is unfairly applying to his Stakeholder plan.  Mr 
W has said L&G never made him aware  of the charges applicable  to his plan. He also feels  
L&G are penalising him by applying charges  when he stopped making contributions in 2013.
Ref: DRN07540343I have very carefully considered what Mr W has said. But Im afraid  that, based on what Ive 
seen, Im not persuaded L&G has acted unreasonably.  
When Mr Ws PPP was transferred to a Stakeholder  plan in 2016 he agreed  to the terms 
applicable to L&Gs Stakeholder plan. This included the plan charges. 
L&Gs letter  to Mr W on 2 February  2016  included a Key Features document  which outlined 
the charges that would apply if Mr W agreed to transferring to its Stakeholder  plan. The 
document specifically  referred to the Stakeholder plan management charges and how these 
would be calculated. 
Im also mindful that L&G made it clear Mr F didnt  have  to agree to his plan being 
transferred to the L&G Stakeholder. L&G confirmed that Mr F could transfer his plan to 
another provider  if he wanted to. Mr W didnt choose to do this. 
L&G also invited Mr W to contact it on more than one occasion between  February  and May 
2016 if he had any queries about  the information  it had provided.  Theres  nothing  to indicate 
Mr W did this. And as Mr W didnt make  use of the cancellation form L&G sent him in May 
2016, his PPP was transferred to L&Gs Stakeholder.
As Mr W was given  clear information  about  the Stakeholder Plan charges and provided with 
an opportunity to query them  before  he accepted the transfer  option,  Im unable  to find that 
L&G failed to make  Mr F aware  of the charges that would apply to his plan from 2016 
onwards or that it has acted inappropriately by applying the relevant Stakeholder plan 
charges to Mr Fs plan.  I also havent  seen anything which  indicates  L&G is penalising Mr W 
or treating him unfairly because he chose to stop contributions in 2013.
I understand Mr W feels strongly that all charges applied to his plan should  be refunded and 
that he may be disappointed with my decision.  Although I dont doubt Mr Ws sincerity or 
strength of feeling  in bringing  this complaint,  for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
there arent enough  grounds here for me to reasonably  conclude  L&G has done anything  
wrong regarding  the issues  he has raised.
I note Mr Ws most recent comments regarding further changes he feels L&G has made. 
And his worry about the impact of these  changes on his plan. Ive queried this with L&G and 
although it confirmed  its intention for the administration of plans like Mr Ws to be dealt with 
by another Provider, it also said this change hadnt  gone ahead yet and, given  current 
circumstances, that it wasnt clear when it would. L&G has also said Mr W has the option of 
transferring to another provider free of charge  if he wishes to do so. So, it seems to me 
L&Gs proposed  change is unlikely to result  in any material difference for Mr W. Mr W may 
however wish to contact L&G directly or seek financial advice if he remains concerned about 
the proposed  changed  and its impact.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Chillel Bailey
Ref: DRN07540344ombudsman
Ref: DRN0754034