K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service under a 
home emergency insurance policy.
background
Where I refer to the insurer  or British Gas,  I refer to the insurance company of that name and 
I include engineers  and others for whose actions  I hold that company responsible.
Mrs C had a British Gas policy that covered her central heating and hot water system.  It 
didnt cover a power flush of the system. In about  October she called for help because she 
wasnt getting hot water. 
She complained that it took five visits to diagnose  and resolve the problem. She complained 
that British Gas advised her to get a power flush  which  cost £848.00  and which she doesnt  
think was necessary. On the fifth visit, a new printed circuit  board (PCB) was what her 
system needed.
In its final response  letter, British Gas said it would reduce the cost of the flush  to £700.00 by 
sending Mrs C a cheque  for £148.00.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt  satisfied the 
power flush was required to resolve the problem. She recommended  that British Gas should  
refund the remaining  amount Mrs C had paid for the power flush. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs C 
and to British  Gas on 24 June 2019. I summarise my findings:
I found it likely that the system needed a power flush in late 2018.  British Gas also 
replaced a pump. And it has given a technical explanation of how the replacement of 
the pump caused the failure of the PCB. 
So I thought  Mrs C had fallen short of showing that the PCB was the only real 
problem all along.
Subject to any further information from Mrs C or from British Gas, my provisional  decision 
was that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct  British Gas 
Insurance Limited to do any more in response  to this complaint.
British Gas agrees  with the provisional decision.
Mrs C disagrees.  She says, in summary,  that:
She wasnt aware that some parts of her boiler were becoming  difficult to obtain.
Ref: DRN03194042Limescale  had been mentioned and she was advised that a device should be fitted to 
her pipes  to help reduce the build  up. She agreed to this and the engineer fitted it 
No engineer had ever advised a Powerflush prior to this issue.
If British Gas engineers had suspected  sludge and scale  it shouldve explicitly 
informed her. This did not happen.  
Had she been informed that she was not covered if she did not have a Powerflush (or 
indeed that the parts for her boiler  were no longer available)  she would have had the 
Powerflush (and replaced the boiler) because renewing would have been pointless. 
On 25 October she didnt see the engineer  take a water sample. He didnt mention 
he had done so or that a sample would be tested.  She questions whether any water 
sample was ever taken.
She told the engineer that her radiators werent cold at the bottom due to sludge build 
up. On occasions she had had to bleed  the radiators because the cold spots  were  
always at the top.
She was told that paying in advance was the only way she could have a Powerflush. 
The engineer  phoned to book this during his visit and handed her the phone to pay 
by card.  She had very little confidence in the engineer and that a flush  would resolve 
her boiler problem. That is why she asked repeatedly what would happen if this didnt 
fix the issue and was repeatedly told she would be refunded.  There  was no 
misunderstanding on her part.
Mrs C doesnt understand the technicalities of how a boiler works. But the original 
problem was exactly the same and nothing changed from the first British  Gas visit up 
until the PCB was replaced, even with the new pump, the Powerflush and the lead 
replacement. It was only when the PCB was replaced that her boiler returned to 
normal. She thinks this demonstrates  that the PCB was the only problem. It should 
be up to British Gas to prove that there was no issue with the PCB prior to 
replacement.
The PCB was the issue with these boilers.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From its work history, I see that British  Gas recorded that Mrs Cs boiler had been installed 
in 1999. And in 2014 it made a note including the following:
BLR RSL AND SCALED
BLR RSL is British  Gas jargon for boiler reduced service list which means  spare parts are 
becoming difficult to obtain.  I think SCALED  means the boiler  had a build-up of limescale. I 
find it likely  that British  Gas told Mrs C she needed  to pay for a power flush.
And in September 2017 British Gas made a note including the following:
Ref: DRN03194043BLR KETTLING/SCALED ADVISED NOT  COVERED.
From that note, I find that the boiler had a build-up  of limescale and British Gas explicitly told 
Mrs C that it wouldnt cover  damage caused by limescale.
Mrs Cs policy renewed in June  2018. The policy terms contained the following exclusion:
Damage  caused  by limescale,  sludge  or other  debris  if weve told you before that 
you need to carry  out repairs,  improvements or a British Gas Powerflush, or a similar  
process, but you havent done so
That exclusion was summarised  in the policy summary as follows:
Removing sludge or scale  or repairing the damage it causes if we've  already  told 
you about it.
In October  2018, Mrs C reported that her hot water wasnt coming on as set on the timer. On 
22 October 2018, British  Gas visited and made  a note including  the following:
Water mother not make switch all the time
I dont understand  the reference to mother. But the note is consistent  with Mrs C not having  
full control over the supply of hot water.
On 25 October 2018 British Gas visited again  and made a note including the following:
Tested water in system as boiler  overheating
powerflush req
From that note I accept  that British Gas tested the system water and said a power  flush  was 
required. I think it did so on the basis of a visual inspection. It later said it had sent a water 
sample off to its testing  contractor. Later  still it told us the contractor hadnt  kept a record of 
the result. I dont  find that satisfactory.
But there was a documented history of scale in the system  in 2014 and 2107. So I find it 
likely that Mrs C needed to get a power  flush in late 2018. She wouldnt have been covered 
for damage  caused  by limescale (typically  damage  to parts  containing water) unless she got 
a power flush.
Mrs C says that  during  the visit on 25 October   she paid in advance for the power flush. 
She has said that the engineer told her that she wouldnt have to pay if the flush didnt fix her 
boiler. But I dont  find it likely that he would say that - especially as shed paid in advance. So 
I think Mrs C misunderstood what the engineer  said.
In its final response letter  British Gas said it fitted  a replacement pump on 25 October 2018. 
But its file contains  a work history showing the parts used (and their cost). From that, I find 
that British Gas fitted the pump on 6 November 2018, the same  day it (or strictly speaking a 
sister company of the insurer) did a power  flush. Indeed a British Gas manager has told us 
that it is standard practice to replace  the pump  when  doing a power flush.
On 16 November 2018, British Gas visited again.  It made a note including the following:
Ref: DRN03194044 intermittent red lockout-no suppressor  lead on [tradename] pump,  fit lead
So I accept the statement of British Gas that the pump came with a replacement  lead to 
connect it to the PCB  but that the engineer hadnt  used that replacement  lead on 6 
November. British Gas says that it was that mistake which  over the next few days - caused 
the PCB to fail.
Finally on 17 November  2018, British Gas replaced the PCB. And Mrs C had reliable hot 
water. So I can see why she  and the investigator  thought  that British Gas could and 
should have solved  the hot water issue by replacing the PCB first instead  of carrying  out a 
power flush.
But Ive found  it likely  that the system needed a power flush  in late 2018. British  Gas also 
replaced a pump. And it has given a technical explanation of how the replacement of the 
pump caused the failure of the PCB. So I think Mrs C has fallen short of showing that the 
PCB was the only real problem all along.
Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to order British Gas to refund  the £700.00 
balance for the power flush  or to do anything further in response  to Mrs Cs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0319404