K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that Astrenska Insurance  Limited  (Astrenska) declined her claim for the
cost of her aortic  valve replacement surgery under her private medical insurance policy.
background
In December 2016 Mrs P became unwell and attended hospital. After  tests were completed
she was told she had aortic valve stenosis and required aortic  valve  replacement.  Her
husband contacted Astrenska who pre-authorised her treatment and confirmed cover under
her policy.  Its noted that the claim has been  accepted only on the medical  information  given
to us. We reserve the right to withdraw  cover  if further information  shows  this claim is not
eligible for benefit.
Mrs P was required  to pay the hospital €2000 before they would proceed with her surgery.
She had her surgery, which was successful,  and shes  made  a good recovery.  But when she
submitted her claim to Astrenska it was declined, as during surgery  it was noted she had a
bicuspid aortal valve. Astrenska said this was a congenital condition, which wasnt covered
by Mrs Ps Standard Plus policy,  as congenital conditions are only covered by their Elite
policy.
Mrs P complained to Astrenska who werent prepared to change their decision and cover  the
cost of her surgery, but they did refund Mrs P and her husbands  premiums  for the policy
year 2016/2017 in which the claim was made, and agreed to pay the cost of her treatment
up to the date her biscuspid valve was diagnosed. But this didnt include the full costs of her
aortic valve  replacement surgery.
Mrs P then complained to our service. Our investigator considered  the case  and initially  said
Astrenska hadnt  done anything wrong  as congenital  conditions werent covered by her
policy.
Mrs P then provided further  medical  evidence which showed her biscupid heart valve  was
only discovered during  her aortic valve replacement surgery. So our investigator
recommended the complaint be upheld and Astrenska pay half the costs claimed, as Mrs P
had no prior knowledge of her biscupid valve.
I issued my provisional decision on Mrs Ps complaint  in February  2019,  and Ive set out 
below my provisional findings.
Mrs P had a Standard  Plus private  medical  insurance policy  with Astrenska.  Its not disputed
that the policy doesnt cover congenital  conditions. But Mrs P says she had no knowledge of
her biscupid  heart valve, and has provided a medical report which  states she didnt  have a
congenital condition.  Although Mrs Ps surgery had been pre-authorised by Astrenska this
was based on the medical  evidence available and they stated we reserve  the right to
withdraw cover if further information shows this claim is not eligible for benefit.
Mrs P attended hospital on 9 December 2016. On examination the hospital records show a
diagnosis of actual  left decompensated heart failure with severe aortic valve  stenosis was
made. Mrs P was required to pay a cost commitment of €2000  on her emergency  admission.
An echocardiograph, on 9 December 2016,  showed  high-grade aortal valve stenosis. She
was referred for cardiac surgery which was carried out on 16 December 2016. During her
surgery it was noted that she had a biscupid heart  valve.
Ref: DRN04583412The operation note states The aortic valve is orientated bicuspidly (LCC and RCC  fused),
heavily calcified and degenerated. Excision of valve  and careful  decalcification.
And the pathohistological  assessment  of the damaged aortic valve  refers to clear  dystrophic
calcification and fibroses.
When Mrs P submitted her claim to Astrenska for the cost of her surgery  it was declined, on
the basis that, when a history of her condition  was requested, her treating doctor failed  to
mention that this condition was of a congenital  nature. And Astrenska said the operation
code given for the claim was Q23.1, which is the code for Congenital Insufficiency of Aortic
Valve. So Astrenska said Mrs Ps surgery wasnt covered  by her policy which  doesnt
include a congenital  benefit.
I havent seen  any evidence to show that prior to Mrs Ps surgery either  she, or her treating
doctor, knew she had a biscuspid aortic valve. This was discovered  during her surgery.  This
is confirmed in the report from Mrs Ps treating consultant. He says in December 2016 Mrs P
complained of dyspnoea and tachycardia  and a high grade aortal  valve stenosis was
diagnosed. He doesnt agree that a biscuspid aortal valve  is a congenital defect, his view is
that its a normal variant.
Mrs P has told us that prior to the symptoms which led to her admission to hospital  shed
lived an active life, and I havent seen any evidence to suggest shed previously had any
problems with her heart. So, based on what Ive seen, her biscuspid heart  valve  doesnt
appear to have caused any health  problems.
My role is to consider the evidence  in this case and to decide  what  is fair and reasonable in
all the circumstances.  Having done so I dont  consider Astrenska have dealt with
Mrs Ps claim fairly.
Mrs P was diagnosed with aortal  valve stenosis and considered a good candidate for
surgery. Tests carried out prior to her surgery showed significant degeneration of her aortic
valve. And this is recorded in the operation note and confirmed by histology. The operation
note shows that during  her surgery, Mrs P was found to a have a biscuspid  aortic valve. The
operating surgeon  recorded this as a congenital deformity, and used the operation code for
this. But he also recorded heavy calcification and degeneration of the aortic valve,  which
confirmed the diagnosis of aortal valve stenosis, which is the reason Mrs P required surgery.
And I havent seen  any evidence  that the presence  of a biscupid aortic  valve was what
caused Mrs Ps aortal valve  stenosis.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen Im not persuaded that Mrs Ps surgery  was required
because she had a biscuspid aortic valve. The evidence suggests she needed surgery as
she was suffering for aortic valve stenosis. So regardless  of the code  the operating surgeon
recorded, based on the medical evidence, I not persuaded  that she required surgery as a
result of a congenital deformity, and her treatment  should be covered  in full by Astrenska.
And even  if it was possible to say Mrs Ps surgery strictly falls outside  the policy terms, I
consider that a fair and reasonable outcome  in these  specific circumstances would be for
Astrenska to admit the claim.
So I dont  think Astrenska  have acting fairly  in declining Mrs Ps claim.  And to put things right
I require them to pay Mrs Ps claim for the cost of her aortic valve replacement. As Astrenska
refunded Mrs Ps premiums for the year 2016/2017, they should  deduct the sum refunded,
Ref: DRN04583413from the sum due to Mrs P in respect of her outstanding treatment costs.
So, my provisional decision was that I upheld Mrs Ps complaint.
Since I prepared by provisional  decision, both Mrs P and Astrenska,  have indicated  they 
accept my provisional decision.
Mrs P has also provided an invoice for medication she was prescribed following her surgery, 
totalling €559.26, and a calculation of the cost of travel between hospitals  which  totals 
€99.97. 
Astrenka have advised us theyve already paid Mrs Ps travel costs.  And theyve indicated  
theyre happy to pay the €559.26  for the cost of her medication.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  indicated they accept  my provisional decision, and Astrenka have 
agreed to pay the further invoice Mrs P has provided in respect of her medication, I dont 
think I need to comment  further on the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision I uphold Mrs Ps complaint against 
Astrenska Insurance  Limited and to put things right I require them pay the full cost of her 
aortic value replacement  surgery, including the €559.26 for her medication, less payments 
already made and the sum refunded in respect  of her premiums for the year 2016/2017.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0458341