K820x#14Complaint
Mrs B complains that Legal  & General Insurance Limited declined  her claim on her pet 
insurance policy.
Background
Mrs Bs dog needed treatment for an eye condition. She made  a claim to Legal & General to 
cover the cost of the treatment.
Legal & General declined Mrs Bs claim. It said the policy didnt cover any pre-existing  
conditions. And it said that after looking at Mrs Bs dogs medical history,  the condition Mrs B 
was claiming for existed  before  the policy started.
Mrs B disagreed and asked Legal  & General to reconsider the claim. She provided a letter 
from her vet explaining her dogs  medical  history in support of her claim.
Legal & General reviewed the claim,  but didnt change its decision.  It said it still felt the claim 
related to a pre-existing condition  as defined in the policy.
Unhappy, Mrs B complained to us.
Our investigator thought Legal  & General acted in line with Mrs Bs policy  when declining the 
claim, so he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs B remained unhappy.  She also said she thinks Legal & General should have asked for 
the medical history  at the start of the policy. Shes  said there was no way of her letting  it 
know about her dogs condition before she made the claim for treatment.
Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to decide  the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding 
Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Legal & General has an obligation  not to unreasonably decline a claim. So I need to be 
satisfied its acted fairly when declining Mrs Bs claim for treatment of her dog. 
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Bs policy with Legal & General have a general exclusion 
for all pre-existing  conditions. It defines pre-existing as: Any condition diagnosed or 
undiagnosed showing signs,  symptoms, manifesting or existing in any form prior to the
commencement date
Under the section  for veterinary fees, Mrs Bs policy says Legal & General wont  cover:
Costs resulting from an accident, injury or illness that first showed clinical signs before the 
commencement date.
Looking at the policy document and the key facts document,  I find that both these terms are 
clear. But I need  to be satisfied Legal & General has applied them fairly to Mrs Bs claim. So 
Ive looked carefully  at the history of this matter.
Ref: DRN05340352Mrs B took out the policy in July 2018,  and claimed for treatment for her dogs eye condition  
in September  2018.
When assessing the claim, Legal & General looked  at Mrs Bs dogs medical  history  and said 
based on this, the first sign of the condition  was in July 2017, with further signs presenting  in 
May 2018. Based on this, its said the treatment Mrs B is claiming for relates to a pre-existing 
condition as defined  in the policy. And I think thats reasonable.
I understand Mrs Bs treating vet has said when they looked at Mrs Bs dog in July 2017 and 
May 2018, the condition wasnt showing any clinical signs and didnt need any treatment. But 
the policy is clear in defining clinical signs as changes in your pet's normal healthy  state, 
its bodily  functions  or behaviour.  So Im satisfied Legal & General  is acting  fairly  when 
saying the medical  history  indicates the condition was pre-existing,  as discharge from the 
eye and an ingrowing  hair both meet the policys definition  of a clinical  sign.
Looking at the letter from Mrs Bs vet supporting  the claim, its clear the first treatment was 
needed after the policy started. But the first signs were present  before the policy started. The 
letter from the vet doesnt clearly state treatment Mrs B is claiming  for is unrelated  to the 
previous signs and symptoms, just that it didnt need treatment.
Mrs B has said Legal & General should  ask for the full medical history when the policy starts  
if its going to use it to decline the claim. But it doesnt need  to. Legal & General needs  to ask 
Mrs B what  it wants to know,  and its entitled to rely on what  its told when setting up the 
policy.
Ive listened to the sales call and seen  the statement of fact for Mrs Bs policy,  and Im 
satisfied it asked clear and relevant questions. Mrs B has said she has no way of knowing 
her dog had a pre-existing condition as the medical advice shed received didnt indicate her 
dog needed any treatment. I do understand her point, and accept  that this is the case. But 
thats not in question here. Legal & General hasnt declined the claim based  on what Mrs B 
did or didnt  say when  the policy started.
Its declined the claim  because the treatment  relates to a pre-existing condition. Which, as 
Ive explained  above, is a reasonable decision based on the evidence.
My final decision
I understand this will disappoint Mrs B, but my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0534035