K821x#15complaint
Mr F complained about the advice he received from ReAssure Limited1 to transfer  two 
occupational pensions he held to a personal pension.
background
Mr F held two defined benefit  pensions from two previous employers. The normal  retirement 
age for those pensions  was 60 and 62 respectively. In 2000 he sought advice from 
ReAssure about  transferring  the pensions to a personal pension  as he was looking to retire  
at 55 and increase  his retirement income.  I understand  Mr F had several discussions with 
ReAssure from October  2000 into 2001.
Ultimately, ReAssure recommended that Mr F transfer his pensions.  One transfer was 
completed in October 2001 and the other  in February 2002. In 2003 Mr F transferred the 
personal pension  away from ReAssure to another provider.
In 2019 Mr F complained  to ReAssure as he felt the advice he received had been  poor.  He 
raised several issues, including:
there was no proper discussion or explanation  regarding
othe guarantees in the existing pensions he was giving up
ohis capacity for loss on the performance  of the personal pensions
othe fees and charges (and how these would affect the returns) and
ohim losing  part of his retirement income if he later wished to provide an income 
for his wife upon his death or increase his income in line with inflation
there was no reference to charges  in the Transfer Value Analysis reports
how a medium risk portfolio would  be likely  to achieve  the growth needed for the existing 
benefits to be matched.
ReAssure didnt think it had done  anything wrong  in recommending the transfer. It said the 
Transfer Value  Analysis  reports showed that transferring to a personal pension plan would 
be worthwhile. It also said Mr F was aware that the performance of the personal pension 
wasnt guaranteed  and might not match the guaranteed pensions  he was giving up.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She felt the advice ReAssure gave 
was unsuitable  as the growth needed wasnt realistically achievable considering  Mr Fs 
desired retirement  age and his attitude to risk. In essence, she felt the growth  needed was 
too high to justify  Mr F giving up the guaranteed benefits of the occupational schemes, and 
needed more  risk that he was willing to take.
ReAssure disagreed with our investigator. It said she had based her assessment on rules 
that only came in force in 2018  and it didnt think they should be applied  retrospectively. It 
also felt Mr F had actively sought advice with a plan to transfer to a personal  pension that 
would allow him to take retirement benefits  at 55 and that he understood there  were  risks 
1 The advice Mr F received  was given by another financial business. However, there has recently  
been a transfer of business from that financial business to ReAssure, so ReAssure is now responsible  
for this complaint. Therefore,  for ease, I will refer to ReAssure throughout my decision.
Ref: DRN05033782involved (which had been outlined). Overall  it felt the growth needed was achievable with the 
level of risk Mr F was willing to take.
Mr F mostly agreed  with our investigator. He felt the level of compensation she had 
recommended wasnt  enough to reflect the time and effort  hed spent putting the complaint 
together. He said he spent a few weeks working  on the complaint  including getting more 
information for ReAssure   and that he lost significant work  (at around £950 a day) as a 
result of a complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F was in his early 40s when he first started  discussing his pension arrangements with 
ReAssure. He was looking  to retire at 55 (which  was earlier than the retirement age in the 
existing schemes he was in) and to increase his overall pension  benefits. His target  was to 
receive around two-thirds of his final salary at 55. He wasnt making any contributions into a 
personal pension  or occupational scheme.
The rules  and guidance regarding pension transfer advice and what an advisor must do 
have changed  over time. I agree with ReAssure that (unless the rule specifically says so) its 
unfair to retrospectively  apply a rule that wasnt in existence when advice was given.
The principle  that a defined benefit transfer should be presumed to be unsuitable as a 
starting point was introduced by the regulator in COBS in December 2001. Nevertheless, 
there were some important  guidance notes issued by the relevant regulators (FIMBRA and 
LAUTRO) in 1992 and 1994 which were adopted  by the Personal Investment Authority, 
including:
alternative options to transferring from the defined benefit scheme (eg doing  nothing,  
transferring to a new employers scheme)  should be given equal  consideration
a full analysis  why these options were ruled out was required
a reason why letter  was required explaining why the advice  is suitable  (taking  explicit  
account of the option of remaining within the existing occupational scheme) and 
demonstrating a real link between  the consumers circumstances,  objectives and risk 
profile and the recommendation.
The regulators at the time also anticipated  that many consumers would be best advised to 
remain in their existing  defined benefit scheme.
Essentially, ReAssure was required to give suitable  advice to Mr F which was in his best 
interest.
suitability of the advice
Im satisfied that Mr F contacted ReAssure to seek advice in respect  of his aim to retire  at 
55. However, ReAssures  role here was to give suitable advice  it shouldnt  advise  Mr F to 
transfer to a pension plan that allows him to retire at 55 if that advice  is unsuitable. Its also 
important to note that Mr F was able to retire at 55 under the existing pension schemes. So it 
wasnt necessary to transfer  the pensions for this reason.  Im also satisfied that Mr F 
Ref: DRN05033783understood there were risks involved in transferring  his pension. But providing warnings 
about the risks doesnt make unsuitable advice suitable.
An advisor shouldnt  regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up 
from the defined  benefits pension scheme  as sufficient in itself.  For a transfer to be 
financially viable, the investments a consumers attitude to risk allowed  them  to make  
shouldnt just have  been capable of achieving the growth rate needed to match the existing  
benefits but to exceed them  which, as Ive mentioned  above,  was Mr Fs aim. Thats  
because thered usually be no point in a consumer giving up the guarantees of a defined 
benefit scheme simply to stand still given the risk that the new pension might underperform.
The Transfer  Value  Analysis reports and recommendation letters Ive seen dont mention 
anything about  the alternative  option of Mr F staying in the existing schemes  or whether  that 
was even considered.  There  is reference  to risk and benefits in the personal pension  not 
being guaranteed, but theres no real explanation of the risk or the loss of the guaranteed  
benefits.
The advice was given  during a period  when  the regulator was publishing  discount  rates for 
use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst 
businesses werent  required to refer to these  rates when  giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been  considered  
reasonably achievable when the advice was given  in this case. 
According to the Transfer  Value Analysis  reports,  the investment return required to match 
the occupational pension  at retirement  at 55 was quoted as 7.0%  per year on one of Mr Fs 
pensions and 8.1% per year on the other. Its unclear whether the figures show the growth 
needed before or after charges were applied. ReAssure said it did, but I would expect that to 
be clearly shown in the reports   and it isnt.
I therefore think its fair to work on the basis  that the return needed to exceed  the existing 
benefits and to cover the fees would  have been  higher  than the 7.0% and 8.1%  quoted. The 
discount rate at the time  which as Ive said above  provides what  I think is a useful 
indication of what growth rate was reasonably achievable  was 6.7% per year (for each 
pension) for the 11 years to retirement. So on the face of it, the growth  needed to exceed the 
existing benefits  didnt look reasonably achievable.
But the simple  comparison between the discount rate and the investment return  needed isnt 
the only determining  factor.  Other  things  need to be considered.
An important consideration is whether the growth required is achievable given Mr Fs attitude 
to risk. Ive already  said above that the growth  reasonably achievable based on the 
regulators rates was 6.7%, compared to the (more than) 7.0% and 8.1%  that was needed to 
provide Mr F with a higher  income. There are various references to Mr Fs attitude to risk 
from the documentation at the time,  eg:
it being positive  (which is described as being  prepared to take a reasonable amount of 
risk in expectation of a good reward)  as opposed to very cautious,  cautious or 
aggressive
it being medium
it not indicating  a preparedness  to take such high risks associated to SIPPs.
Ref: DRN05033784The discount  rates  take into account that a customer would be taking some risk and so I 
think its likely that a reasonably achievable return for Mr F given his medium attitude to risk 
was probably around the discount rate Ive quoted. But it needed to be more than that as per 
the Transfer Value  Analysis reports just to match the existing benefits, and higher again to 
exceed them  every  year until Mr F turned 55. 
Another consideration is Mr Fs capacity to suffer a loss on the pensions.  As far as I know,  
the two defined benefit pensions were the only retirement  provision Mr F had and were likely 
to remain his main source of retirement  income  because he didnt have a pension with his 
current employer and he was only 11 years (from when the final transfer  was completed) 
from his planned  retirement. So he couldnt afford  to take much risk with them as it was his 
main source of retirement  income. I havent seen anything which shows  that the advisor took 
this into account.
Mr F was essentially advised to give up guaranteed benefits in exchange for a pension that 
was at risk to match his existing schemes  benefits  and was unlikely to exceed  them.  And his 
objective of retiring  at 55 could have also been  achieved by staying in his defined benefit  
scheme.
So when taking  account of the investment  growth  needed to exceed the existing benefits, 
the growth rate reasonably achievable  at the time, Mr Fs pension  portfolio, employment 
situation and attitude to risk, I conclude that the advice to transfer  the two pensions was 
unsuitable.
loss suffered/putting  things right
The aim of any decision  I make in cases like this is to put the consumer as far as is 
reasonably and practically possible  into the position they would  have been  in had they not 
received the unsuitable advice. Mr F has suffered a financial loss (although I dont know  
precisely how much). If ReAssure had recommended against the transfer I think  its likely 
Mr F would have followed that advice and would  have  remained in his defined  benefit 
schemes. And had that happened, he wouldnt have suffered the loss he did.
In order to establish the amount of the loss Mr F suffered, our investigator suggested a 
methodology for the calculations along  the following lines:
ReAssure should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension  review 
methodology, as amended by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017;
the calculation  should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions 
published by the FCA at the date of the actual calculation;
ReAssure may wish to contact the Department  for Work  and Pensions  to get Mr Fs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension  Scheme (SERPS) if 
applicable;
these details should then be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mr Fs 
SERPS entitlement;
if this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid into 
Mr Fs current pension  plan.  The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any 
available tax relief
the compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection  or allowance
Ref: DRN05033785if a payment into Mr Fs current pension isnt possible  or has protection  or allowance 
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr F as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction to allow  for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss 
would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed  according to his likely income tax rate 
in retirement  presumed to be 20%.  So making  a notional deduction of 15% overall from 
the loss adequately reflects this.
That in my opinion  is a fair way of calculating and compensating Mr F for any loss he 
suffered.
Our investigator also suggested  that ReAssure pay Mr F £200  compensation in respect of 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.  
Ive noted Mr Fs comments about the time he spent  on the complaint and the earnings he 
lost. Compensation  I award in this respect  isnt a fine or a punishment for the business 
concerned so what happened, and the reason for it, isnt normally a consideration. The 
compensation is more  to reflect the impact  eg distress  and inconvenience  (which includes 
time)  the matter has had on a consumer.
In deciding compensation I dont usually consider a consumers hourly or daily rate. Thats  
because we all have  things we need  to deal with in our daily lives.  And in financial 
complaints like this its rare that I find a consumer had to take time away  from their job (and 
therefore lose earnings as a result) to deal with it. Its usually a choice the consumer made  ie 
they chose to deal with the matter during work time as opposed to after work or in the 
weekend. Of course,  things might be different if the nature of the complaint forced the 
consumer to lose earnings (for example, if an insurer refused to provide a doctor with 
medical negligence cover), but I havent seen anything to suggest thats the case here.
It also looks likely from what  Ive seen that although  the advice was nearly 20 years ago, the 
distress and inconvenience Mr F has suffered  particularly due to dealing with the complaint 
 as a result of it has only been since early 2019.
Overall, Im satisfied that the £200 suggested  by our investigator was fair.
my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest  and/or costs/interest  on costs that I think  are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000,  I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as outlined  in the bullet  points under the loss suffered/putting things right  section 
above, plus £200 for distress and inconvenience. My decision is that ReAssure Limited 
should pay Mr F the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that ReAssure  Limited  pays Mr F the balance.  
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  ReAssure Limited doesnt 
have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely  that Mr F can accept my decision and go to court 
Ref: DRN05033786to ask for the balance. Mr F may want to get independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept  this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2020.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0503378