K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  about  Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group. He isnt happy that it 
wouldnt deal with a claim under  his van insurance policy.
background
Mr L took out insurance for his van through  his broker Adrian Flux. His policy auto renewed 
over a few years and as he was happy with the cover he let this proceed  automatically. 
Mr L required a driving other cars (DOC) extension and ensured that was part of his policy  
when he took out insurance.
Unfortunately, Mr L had an accident in his partners car and so he let Adrian Flux know  as he 
was using his DOC extension at that time.  Adrian  Flux told him he was covered initially  
before writing out to tell him that he wasnt. It said it removed the DOC extension at his last 
renewal. Mr L complained  as he said this wasnt made clear to him when  he renewed his 
policy.
Adrian Flux said his insurer had actually removed  DOC cover  six months  earlier, but they 
didnt tell him as the cover  was being  honoured until renewal. And although it acknowledged 
it didnt highlight the change in the covering letter to Mr L it was satisfied the change was 
clear enough  in the insurance schedule and the renewal notice. As Mr L remained unhappy 
he complained  to this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld Mr Ls complaint. He didnt think  Adrian Flux 
had made  it clear enough to Mr L that his insurance  cover was changing. He accepted that 
when the documents were considered in detail that DOC had been removed, but he thought 
Adrian Flux should  have  done more to bring this to Mr Ls attention  when his policy  renewed. 
So, he thought  it should provide cover as if the insurance was in place.
As Adrian  Flux didnt  agree  the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Adrian Flux have said Mr Ls insurer told it that DOC  cover  was being removed from Mr Ls 
policy six months into cover. As DOC was being honoured until Mr Ls policy  renewed it 
didnt let Mr L know. But I think this was a missed opportunity. I say this as had Adrian Flux 
have forewarned Mr L about the change  in cover then he would have had plenty of notice 
about the change.  And ensured that he either didnt use DOC after renewal or looked  to get 
an alternative policy. 
Turning to the actual time of renewal I agree with our investigator that Adrian Flux should 
have made  the change  clear to Mr L in its covering letter.  I say this as Mr L was clearly 
happy with DOC  extension and it was something  he used from time to time.  So I think it 
should have made the change very clear to him at renewal. Mr L simply  read its covering 
letter which suggested  everything remained the same other than a small increase in 
premium. 
Ref: DRN01916532I note Mr Ls cover letter for renewal this year makes it abundantly clear that cover has 
changed and that he doesnt have DOC anymore (when in fact DOC cover  had actually been 
removed the year before).  So, although Adrian Flux have said it wasnt necessary to put 
anything in its cover letter  and says Mr L should have looked at the renewal documentation  
that was attached to the cover letter in more detail, it has chosen to put a clear statement 
about changes  in its cover letter this year. While it is good to see that Adrian Flux has taken 
the learning from this case on board now, it also shows it shouldve done  this in the first 
place.
Overall, while  I accept  that a consumer  should look at their policy documentation Adrian Flux 
also had a duty to highlight  significant  changes in cover (as it has attempted to do this year). 
In this instance, I accept  that Mr L believed his insurance cover was the same and nothing  
had changed.  And he simply allowed his policy to renew believing  he still had the same  
cover as the year before,  as Adrian Flux didnt  highlight  any change. 
So the fair and reasonable  thing  to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for 
Adrian Flux to look to cover the claim as if Mr L had DOC cover in place. I understand Mr L 
didnt face any further sanction in relation to this incident so Im not asking  Adrian Flux to do 
anything more. Although I understand that the incident may have impacted on Mr Ls 
partners insurance  policy,  but this should be rectified when Adrian Flux take the action 
outlined here.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Adrian Flux 
Insurance Services Group to provide cover for Mr L as if he had DOC in line with the policy 
he previously had.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0191653