K821x#15complaint
Mrs M, represented  by Mr M, complains that Close Brothers Limited sent information  to an 
old address causing distress and costs.
background
Mrs M has a credit  agreement with Close Brothers  relating to her insurance  policy.  In 
October 2018, Mr M contacted Close Brothers about  a missed payment and explained the 
situation that had lead to this. He also changed the correspondence address. On 
5 November Mr M called  again saying the insurance policy  had been cancelled.  As part of 
this call he discovered that Close Brothers had the old address on its system.
Mr M says that he and Mrs M had experienced serious issues  at their old address which  is 
why they moved.  He says that the police were involved. Because of the issues Mrs M was 
concerned about  the new address and information  about their cars being sent to their old 
address and so decided  to change car registration plates and stay in a hotel.
After a complaint  was raised, Mrs M was told that the new address had not been sent to her 
old address. However  she wants to be compensated for the costs of the new registration 
plates and hotel.
Close Brothers says that Mrs Ms address was changed on 8 October and a letter  to confirm 
this was sent to her old address. It says that no new information was included in this letter.  
On 12 October it received  an instruction from the brokers automated system to amend the 
address back to the old address. It says this was processed automatically and so no team  
member saw this or had the opportunity to challenge  it. A letter  was then sent to Mrs M 
about the amendment to the new address.
Close Brothers did not accept that it had breached the Data  Protection Act. It did uphold the 
complaint in regard  to the tone of its Customer Services Department. It apologised for this 
and awarded £75 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Our investigator did not find that Close Brothers had provided the service it should  have.  She 
noted that a letter including a payment  schedule  was sent to the old address even though 
this was actioned  on the call when the address  was changed. She further noted that a 
termination notice  was also sent to the old address on 22 October  and she thought  more  
could have been done to stop this. Because  of this she recommended  that Close  Brothers 
pay a total compensation of £150 (£75 additional  to its original offer). 
Neither party accepted our investigators  view. Mr M said it was understandable, given the 
issues, that Mrs M spent money  on changing  the car registration  plates and staying  in a hotel.
Close Brothers said that no personal information  was sent to Mrs Ms old address and that 
this should have been clarified by its agent on the call. It said that although Mr M had 
contacted it to update the address it relied on information from the insurance broker  being  
correct and would always carry  out an automated instruction.
In regard to the payment schedule, it said that this was generated on the day Mr M called to 
change the address and that it was sent to the address on the agreement. As this was 
ordered before the address change was notified the action was already in the system  and 
couldnt be changed. 
Ref: DRN07390462It said it had considered the distress the issues had caused and said its offer of £75 was 
reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has explained  that it isnt our role to say whether Close Brothers breached  
data protection  laws.  This is for the Information Commissioners  Office to decide.  However,  
we can look into whether Close Brothers acted fair and reasonably and whether it should 
pay any compensation due to the impact any issues have caused.
I have listened  to the calls that took place on 8 October.  On these call Mr M explains the 
situation that he and Mrs M were  in and the reason for the missed payment.  An agreement  
was made  about  future repayments.  I note the comments Mr M made on the later calls about  
not being told about he need to make  a manual payment but on this call it is explained  that 
the arrears payment would need  to be made  over the phone.
Following the discussion  regarding payments, Mr M changed the address on the account.  It 
was explained  this was a change of correspondence  address and that he would  need  to 
change the address with the insurer as well. On the call on 5 November,  as well as the issue 
about a manual payment  Mr M also discovered that the old address was on the system. 
Mr M explained that there had been problems  with the previous landlord and was upset that 
letters containing personal details had been  sent to the old address. The adviser  
acknowledged this comment rather than explaining what information had been sent so I can 
understand why, at this stage, Mr M was concerned  that personal data had been sent to the 
old address. Mr M says that because of this he and Mrs M paid to stay in a hotel and change  
their car registration plates.
While I appreciate Mr Ms concerns I also note that a call took place on 6 November. This 
was a day after the call on which concerns  were  raised and the adviser says that it was a 
payment schedule that was sent to the old address and there is no suggestion that the new 
address details were  disclosed. I have not heard  on the calls any suggestion that information 
about the car registration numbers was sent to the old address.
I have looked  through  the letters sent to the old address and can see that there were three. 
The first is the acknowledgement of the address  change.  It is right this is sent to ensure the 
address change is genuine  and there  is no information in this that should raise  concerns. 
The next letter is the payment schedule and then a termination notice is also sent. Again 
these letters do not contain the new address  or details of car registration numbers.
Based on the above, I do not find it reasonable that Close Brothers  should  be required to 
pay for the hotel and change of registration plate costs.
That said I do not find that Mrs M was provided  with the service she should have been. 
Close Brothers offered  to pay her £75 compensation and I understand a cheque was sent on 
27 November 2018. But based on the final response  letter this payment appears  to be linked  
to the tone used  by its Customer Services  Department. 
Ref: DRN07390463I note Close  Brothers comment that the payment schedule  was ordered before the address 
was updated.  However  given  this all happened  on the same call I think  it would have been 
reasonable for Mr M to have been told about the letter going to the old address, or for steps 
to have been taken to amend this. 
Close Brothers has said that the insurance broker then amended the address back to the old 
address. While I accept that this is not a mistake  by Close Brothers,  I also think it reasonable 
that given Mr M had updated  the address he would expect letters  to go to the new address. 
Because of this change the termination  notice wen to the old address. I understand that 
systems are automated but I also think it reasonable that checks are in place to flag any 
unusual circumstances  and given the short period between the changes in address it is 
disappointing that this was not flagged.
Overall, I think that Close Brothers could  have provided better  service  in regard to Mrs Ms 
account. Because of this I agree with our investigators recommendation that the total 
amount of compensation should  be increased  to a total of £150.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Close Brothers  Limited should pay Mrs M a total of £150 
compensation (£75 additional to the initial offer of £75 for which a cheque was issued)  for 
the trouble and upset she has been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0739046