K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M, who are represented by a third party, have complained to us that
Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in May 2005.
background
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy at the same time as they were taking out a mortgage 
with BoS. It included PPI cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment for Mr M only 
and life and critical  illness  cover for both Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M have  told us that they werent given enough information about the policy  and 
in any event didnt  need it. 
The PPI was part of a packaged  protection policy called Total Mortgage Protection Plan 
(TMPP). As well as PPI this can also include life and critical illness cover.  Mr and 
Mrs M have  only complained about  the PPI element of the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy had been  mis-sold. Because  Mr and Mrs M 
disagree, their complaint  has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of payment protection insurance on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say they bought the policy when they were in a meeting. And BoS has 
confirmed it made a recommendation that they take out the policy. So that means BoS had 
more responsibility, having to make sure that the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Ms 
situation and also that the information  it gave them was clear  and not misleading.
Unfortunately, most of the sale documentation  is no longer available.  In reaching my 
decision, Ive therefore had to rely on the paperwork Ive seen plus what  I know about  
BoSs sales process for this type of policy at the time.
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs M signed a declaration at the time they made their application 
for the mortgage. This included a section about  the PPI cover,  if they decided  to buy it. 
But I dont  think  that alone  is enough  to make  me think that they knew theyd bought the 
policy.
I also realise that Mr and Mrs M have given  us their best recollection of what  happened  at 
the time of the sale. But again,  that alone  isnt enough  for me to uphold  this complaint.
Having taken everything Ive seen into account I think its more likely than not that
Mr and Mrs M knew they had a choice about  whether to buy the policy and that they 
decided to go ahead and buy it. And having noted  that the PPI element was free for the 
first two months,  I think thats something  else that would have shown that Mr and Mrs M 
Ref: DRN09199862didnt have to have the cover and that they could have chosen  not to continue with it at the 
end of the free period. 
Ive next looked to check whether Mr M was eligible for the PPI cover  or disadvantaged by 
any of the main exclusions in this type of cover. From what Ive seen, Mr M was eligible 
and wasnt affected  by any of the main exclusions. Mr M told us about an injury  he 
sustained in 2006  after the PPI sale - which eventually led to surgery that had to be 
repeated and required him taking a week off work each time. That wouldnt have been 
something hed be able to make  a successful claim for, given the limited  amount of time 
he was off work. But given that the injury  happened after hed taken out the cover,  its not 
something I need to think about when looking at a possible  mis-sale. 
Mr M told us he was entitled to receive  some benefits from his employer if he wasnt  able 
to work due to accident or sickness.  Hes said this wouldve been equivalent to 6 months  at 
full pay followed by 6 months a half pay. The policy would pay out for up to 12 months  if he 
made a successful claim, which  would be paid in addition to any existing work benefits plus 
the savings Mr and Mrs M have told us about.  So if Mr M wasnt able to work  due to 
accident or sickness, or if he lost his job, the policy would be a useful benefit to have to 
help protect his and Mrs Ms home.
Mr and Mrs M have  also told us they each already had insurance cover in place that 
provided a 12 month benefit if they were  unable to work, or if one of them  lost their job. 
However, without the benefit of knowing how this cover worked and/or being able to see 
the relevant policy  details,  unfortunately its not something Im able to take into account.  Mr 
and Mrs M also say they were entitled  to death in service benefit from their employer but 
thats a particular type of benefit  that would obviously only be of use were either of them to 
pass away, so I cant consider it as being  something that provided similar cover to the PPI. 
Ive seen that the total cost of the PPI cover  was £11.95 per month, covering the 
monthly mortgage payment plus an additional sum that made  the PPI a total benefit of 
£201.14 per month.  Not having the paperwork,  Ive no way of knowing if this was 
shown. So its not completely clear  whether Mr and Mrs M knew  about the cost when 
they decided to buy the policy.  Having  said that, I havent seen anything to make  me 
think they would have had difficulty in meeting the monthly premiums  for the cover.  So I 
think on balance BoSs recommendation to buy the PPI cover was a suitable one.
Its possible there may have been other  shortcomings in the way this policy  was sold 
but, having looked at all aspects of the sale, I think Mr and Mrs M would still have 
decided to buy the policy if theyd been  better  advised and informed.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has raised a number  of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that we are not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented  poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  
good faith meant BoS should  have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance  
of the limitations  and exclusions and the impact  it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has not said how these  points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
Ref: DRN09199863I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ms particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  - for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 September 2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0919986