K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs W, who are represented  by a claims management company, (CMC),  complain 
that GE Money Home Lending  Limited  rejected their claim under s 75 Consumer Credit  Act 
1974 in respect  of the purchase  of timeshare points.
Background
In October  2002 Mr and Mrs W bought a points based membership from a company  I will 
call G. This cost £6,354  and was funded by a loan from GE. In August 2018  the CMC 
complained on Mr and Mrs Ws behalf to GE. It said that they had been pressurised into 
making the purchase and they had been  misled. Although  they had made extensive use of 
their points, they had encountered difficulty in making bookings and not all had been 
satisfactory. They say they had not been  made aware that the maintenance costs  would 
increase significantly.
GE rejected the claim and said that it was out of time. The complaint was brought  to this 
service where it was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She considered the complaint fell within our jurisdiction and was not time barred. 
However, she considered  the claim fell outside the time limits set by the Limitation Act.
The CMC didnt agree and asked that the matter be considered by an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
GE has said that this complaint falls outside our rules set out in DISP  2.8.2(2)  on the basis 
that the complaint was made too late. I dont agree. 
Our rules say that we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers  it to us more  than:
(a)six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint
unless:
the failure to comply  with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
When assessing and declining a claim under the Consumer Credit  Act, a business is 
exercising its rights  and duties under a regulated credit agreement. A consumer may then 
complain if they feel that a business  has failed to fulfil its obligations  under this credit 
agreement, because they havent received satisfactory compensation for their claim.
So in this case, it follows that the event  complained  of is GEs decision on May 2021 to 
decline the claim Mr and Mrs W made regarding the timeshare, rather than the sale itself. 
The CMC complained on February 2019,  which is well within the six-year  time limit specified 
in the rules.
Ref: DRN00146542Because of this, I think we can look at this complaint, as it has been brought  within the time 
limits set under DISP  2.8.2(2). So, I will now go on to consider the complaint, which  is that 
GE would not look into the claim under the Limitation Act. 
Turning to the substance  of the complaint,  when  considering what  is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of the complaint, Im required to take into account: relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, GE is jointly  and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or services  for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. This means, Mr and Mrs W 
have a like claim against GE just as they would  have against the supplier. So, if this claim 
against the supplier  of the timeshare has likely expired under the Limitation  Act, then that is 
something GE could take into account when it considers the claim against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits which apply to different types of claims. The CMC 
has said the timeshare  Mr and Mrs W bought was misrepresented to them.
Under the Limitation Act, they would have  six years from the date upon which they suffered a 
loss as a result of the misrepresentation to bring  their claim. 
As GE steps into the shoes of the supplier  for the purposes of the s.75 claim, to work  out 
when the clock starts running under the Limitation  Act, we need to work out when it would 
start if the claim had been brought directly against  the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person  bringing  the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result  of the misrepresentation.  In this case, given the nature of the 
complaint, I think damage occurred when  they suffered a financial loss as a result of 
purchasing the timeshare. Ill explain why below.
 
The CMC says that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, Mr and Mrs W paid to 
enter an agreement which  has caused them to suffer  a loss. It says that but for the 
misrepresentation, Mr and Mrs W wouldnt  have  entered into the contract at all and wouldnt 
have paid any money to the supplier.
So, I think the point of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in October 2002. Thats the moment when they accepted  any potential benefit  under 
the contract, and it was also the moment they accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, they 
needed to raise their claim no later than October 2008. As I understand it, they raised their 
claim in August 2018, which  is some 18 years after the loss occurred.
They may say that they werent  aware they could raise concerns about the 
misrepresentation until much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims 
such as this, start to run from the date of loss, which may fall earlier  than the date they 
became aware  that something might have gone wrong.  
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into 
this complaint. Under s.140A,  the courts may make an order  under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement  if it determines  that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Ref: DRN00146543Only a court has the power  to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law we need  to take into consideration. 
The Limitation Act still applies for these types  of claims. For a s.140A claim, Mr and Mrs W 
would have six years  from the date the related finance agreement ended. From the 
information I have,  their finance  agreement ended more than six years before they brought  
their complaint so a s.140A  claim was raised  outside  the time limits. 
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide  whether or not any claim they may have against 
the supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that this misrepresentation claim against  the 
supplier and the like claim  against GE more than likely exceeded the relevant time limits 
set out in the Limitation  Act. So, it would not be unreasonable for GE to take this into 
account when  considering  the s.75 claim against  it. 
So, given that this claim now is more than likely time barred under the Limitation Act, I think  
GEs decision not to look into the claim was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2021.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0014654