K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  him a store 
card PPI (payment protection insurance) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple, Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Mr H took out the PPI at the same  time as applying for a store card whilst in a shop in July 
1997.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Mr H says he wasnt told that the policy was optional and that he would have declined  it if he 
has known. He says he didnt request it and so it must have been added  without  his 
knowledge or consent. Ive seen a copy of Mr Hs application form for the store card.  It has a 
separate section  for PPI and within that section a person  needed to tick a box to request the 
policy. If someone didnt want the policy they could have left the box blank.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr Hs recollection of 
the sale has faded. Based on the available evidence, I think that FICL  made  Mr H aware that 
he had a choice  about buying the PPI  and the way that the application form is laid out 
reinforces that. It seems to me that Mr H probably decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt 
have to, even  if he no longer  remembers  doing so
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mr H, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his needs. 
But it did need to provide  him with enough information for him to make an informed decision 
about whether  or not the policy was right for him.
Mr H would have received up to six months sick pay from his job. But the policy  would have 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr H would have received full pay 
for. Hes told us that he had some  savings. But having the policy would have  allowed him to 
retain these  or use them to cover other outgoings. Overall I think  Mr H had a need for the 
policy and could have  benefitted from it if hed been unable  to work due to illness or if hed 
lost his job.
Ref: DRN01071642Its possible that FICL could have  provided more information about the policy,  particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of those things. As I 
think that Mr H had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think  that better 
information would have caused  him to change his mind. So Mr H isnt any worse off as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.  So there is nothing that FICL needs to do to 
put things right.
When Mr H first made this complaint, the policy was still active on the card. If that is still the 
case, Mr H may want to consider whether he still has a need for the policy or whether he 
wants to cancel it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0107164