K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Acromas Insurance  Company Limited (Acromas) failed to provide  
him with a courtesy  car under his motor  insurance policy.
All references to Acromas  include its agents.  
background
Mr G has a motor  insurance policy with Acromas which he bought through a broker.  The 
policy is branded  in the name of company R but the insurance  is underwritten/provided by 
Acromas. 
In February 2019  Mr G called one of Acromas agents and said his car had broken down and 
he wanted it to provide  him with a courtesy car in the meantime. He said he didnt want to 
claim for the repairs under his policy.
Acromas didnt provide  Mr G with a courtesy  car because it said courtesy cars are only 
provided subject  to availability. It also said Mr Gs policy doesnt cover breakdowns so he 
wouldnt be able to claim under his policy  in any event.  
Mr G wasnt happy and complained but Acromas didnt change its view.  Mr G then 
complained to us. He said he wanted Acromas to compensate him for all the money  he 
spent on transport since his car broke down. Our investigator didnt think the complaint  
should be upheld  for the reasons Acromas gave. 
Mr G didnt agree with our investigator  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  He said his 
policy covers breakdowns.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
Mr Gs policy  includes cover for damage to his car caused by accidental  or malicious 
damage. It excludes  loss or damage  caused by a number of things including breakdowns, 
faults or breakages.
There is also a section  regarding courtesy  cars which says Acromas  will cover loss or 
damage to any courtesy car its recommended repairer provides while any damage  to the 
insureds car is being repaired. It also says the provision of a courtesy  car is subject to 
availability and the repairers terms and conditions.  
Mr G called Acromas  to say that his car had broken  down and he wanted a courtesy  car 
because he was entitled to one under the policy. The agent he spoke to told him the 
courtesy car was subject  to availability- it wasnt guaranteed- and this depended  on whether 
the repairer had one available. The agent  also said as Mr G wasnt  making a claim under the 
policy Acromas  wouldnt  be able to provide  him with a courtesy  car. The agent took Mr G 
through the policy to say that the courtesy  car was subject to availability and up to the 
recommended repairer. Mr G thought this was an excuse for Acromas not to provide a 
courtesy car. 
Ref: DRN05112562From what  Ive seen Mr G didnt make a claim on his policy  and he said he didnt  want  to 
claim for his vehicle damage. But he thought he was entitled  to a courtesy car under the 
policy. As I said above the policy doesnt cover breakdowns- so even if he wanted to make a 
claim under his policy he wouldnt have been  able to. However, if for example his car was 
damaged in an accident he wouldve been  able to make a claim on his policy and if his car 
was being repaired  by an approved repairer he may have been  able to get a courtesy car. 
But as he didnt make  a claim, and as he wouldnt have been covered in any event, I dont 
think he was entitled to a courtesy car. For that reason I dont think  Acromas  dealt with him 
in a way that was unfair or unreasonable when it refused to provide him with a courtesy car. 
Mr G said his policy covers breakdowns but Ive seen no evidence  of that. And having 
listened to the call he had with the broker when he took the policy out I note he opted not to 
add breakdown cover to his motor insurance policy. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr G but I have to consider how Acromas  
and its agents  treated  him and in these circumstances  I cant see that it treated him unfairly 
or unreasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0511256