K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly  placed  a CIFAS marker against  
her name. CIFAS  is the UKs fraud  alert service. Miss N wants Nationwide to remove  the 
marker. And pay her compensation  for the trouble and upset  caused.
background
Miss N had several accounts  with Nationwide. 
Between September 2016 and January 2018,  Miss N received over £250,000 in bank credits 
into her accounts, £30,831.71 in cash credits, made  over £175,000 in Swift payments and 
withdrew £42,928 in cash. 
In January 2018, Miss N was arrested and interviewed about her account  activity. During her 
interview with police, Miss N explained  that she was receiving money from her brother 
overseas, who was a director of several businesses. She said that the money was to help 
pay for the care of their sick father. She also said that some of the money was sent overseas 
to other  family members to help with everyday  living expenses.  And she received cash  
payments as gifts from her brother.
Miss N also explained  that she used the services of a money transfer service, which  I will 
refer to as G, to receive money from her brother. She said she met with the owner of the 
money transfer service  and agreed that Miss Ns brother would use it as an intermediary  to 
make payments into her account as it was more cost effective. So, Miss Ns brother would 
make payments to Gs account held overseas where  her brother was located.  And then G 
would pay this money to Miss N from its accounts held in the UK. 
Miss N said if G didnt  have enough money  available in its accounts,  it would sub-let  the 
transaction to third parties. This meant the money wouldnt always  credit her account  in one 
lump sum  sometimes it was divided up into smaller amounts. And it could be paid into her 
account by unknown third parties  businesses and individuals. Because of this she didnt 
always know whod paid money into her accounts.  
Nationwide reviewed all Miss Ns accounts  and found that not all the money paid into her 
accounts could  be accounted for. They also had concerns that Miss N was being paid by 
multiple unknown  third parties. And she didnt always send out the full amounts received. It 
noted in 2012, shed  received over £191,000  from a relatives business  in the USA to buy 
plant equipment, which was then shipped  to Nigeria. So, it believed  she was using her 
personal account for business purposes.
Miss N also told Nationwide  that shed given her savings bank card and PIN to her relative to 
use because he couldnt obtain an account  of his own due to bad credit. And that hed had 
paid around £10,000 into her account. Miss N couldnt provide any information of the source 
of these funds. So, Nationwide recorded  a CIFAS  marker against Miss N based on how she 
was using her accounts, which it said amounted to misuse of a service. 
Miss N complained to Nationwide and asked it to remove the marker. She also complained 
to CIFAS. She says that there was no evidence her accounts had received fraudulently  
funds or been  used  for business  purposes. She also provided  evidence to show  that she 
wasnt charged following  the police investigation. And says the police were satisfied with the 
source of funds which credited her account. Nationwide said it hadnt done  anything wrong in 
Ref: DRN01477542applying the marker.  It maintained Miss N had misused her accounts. CIFAS also agreed. 
So, she brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  looked at Miss Ns complaint. She said she wasnt  persuaded that 
Miss Ns explanation supported her account activity. In summary she said:
it was likely that some of the money  was used  for the care of Miss Ns father but 
some of the transactions occurred before he became  unwell
the transactions were of high value
the activity on the account far exceeded  Miss Ns £2,000 a month salary
it was unclear why Miss N would allow multiple unknown third parties  to credit her 
accounts
Miss N cant  explain  all the money received and paid out of her accounts
Miss Ns accounts were more likely than not being used for business purposes
Miss Ns explanation of the police being  satisfied  with the origin of the funds wasnt  
correct  there simply wasnt enough  evidence to formally  charge Miss N. 
Miss N disagreed. She said she wasnt charged by the police and no funds paid into her 
accounts were found to be fraudulent.  So, she said Nationwide should  remove the marker.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at whether Nationwide was fair to apply the marker, based  on the evidence it 
had, and the investigation it carried out. And what  the rules  say about applying  such  marker.  
Miss N says most of the money paid into her accounts was received from relatives.  And was 
used to pay for the care of her father  who was unwell. If that were the case, I would expect  
Miss N to be able to account for every  transaction in her account. However, from looking at 
what she told Nationwide, Miss N couldnt explain where all the money  which passed 
through her accounts originated  she simply didnt know. She was also unable  to provide 
copies of any medical bills to support her explanation for some of the account transactions.  
Miss Ns also told Nationwide  that in 2016  she gave a relative use of her savings account 
because he was unable  to get an account  of his own due to bad credit. I can see that around 
£10,000 was put through  this account between 2016  and 2018. Miss N accepts  she 
shouldnt have done this and that as a result  of this Nationwide werent  able to meet  its legal 
and regulatory  obligations as it didnt  know who was operating  the account.  
Its also not in dispute  that over £100,00  which came into her account  was used to buy plant 
construction equipment, which was bought in the USA and shipped to Nigeria  for use in her 
brothers business.  So, I think Miss N was using her personal account for business  
purposes. 
Miss N has pointed out that she wasnt charged  by the police.  And says the police were  
satisfied with the source of the funds  which credited  her accounts. So, she says on this basis 
Nationwide should  remove the CIFAS marker.  
Ref: DRN01477543Whilst I accept  Miss N wasnt charged. It doesnt follow  that Nationwides  concerns werent  
well founded. Before  placing the marker against Miss Ns name, Nationwide  needed to have 
reasonable grounds to make a referral  to a law enforcement agency. Under CIFAS guidance 
Miss N didnt need to be charged with an offence. And having looked at how Miss N was 
operating her accounts I think  it was reasonable for Nationwide to have concerns. So, when  I 
weigh everything  up, I think  Nationwide was justified in acting in the way it did. On that basis,  
I think its fair and reasonable that Nationwide  reported Miss N to CIFAS for misuse  of her 
accounts. And Im not going to ask Nationwide to remove the marker. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0147754