K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc made an entry  about him on a fraud prevention 
database  CIFAS  following  a mortgage  application he made.
background
Mr G and his wife Mrs G had a mortgage  with another lender. They decided to re-mortgage 
and applied  to BoI. BoI considered and rejected  the application. It also decided  to record  an 
entry on the database about Mr G. BoI has confirmed that although this was a joint mortgage 
application it only made the entry about  Mr G, not Mrs G, and so this is his complaint  alone.
Mr G owns a limited  company, through which he is paid a salary as sole director.  BoI was 
concerned about  the payslips he provided in support of his application. And it didnt think he 
had reported ownership of the company accurately on the application form. So it rejected the 
application and made the entry.  However,  it didnt explain  the reasons to Mr G at the time, or 
seek his comments.  
Mr G complained. Our investigator  didnt think the complaint should be upheld, so Mr G 
asked for an ombudsman to review  it. I took a different view, so I issued  a provisional 
decision. I said:
There are two key issues here.  The first is the payslips, and the second  is the 
company ownership.
Mr G declared  his income on the application. BoI then asked for proof of his income. 
Mr G provided  three payslips  but they were  payslips  for the next three months, not 
the previous three months. They  were  payslips for pay he hadnt actually received 
yet.
Mr G also said on the application  that he owned less than 25% of the company. But 
its entry at Companies  House said he owned  75% or more.
Based on these discrepancies, BoI placed the entry on the database. It didnt ask Mr 
G for any explanation or clarification before it did so.
Mr G has since  explained his position to our investigator.  He said that he is the only 
director and employee  of the company.  He takes the same salary each month, and 
his accountant  prepares payslips for him a quarter at a time; he then pays himself the 
amount set out each month.
Mr G also said that, at the time, he had decided to divide the companys  shares  
between himself and his three children.  He hadnt  updated Companies House  
believing he only needed to do so when filing the annual return  and in fact hasnt  
done so, because on reflection he and his children decided that it would make  their 
own financial  positions too complicated if they owned shares in a business  they 
werent working in. So he reverted  back to full ownership of the company.
Ive considered the databases principles for its members (of which BoI is one). The 
principles for members are publicly available on the databases website. One of the 
principles says that BoI should only make  a record when there are reasonable 
grounds to believe  that fraud or financial  crime has been committed  or attempted, 
Ref: DRN05950392and that there must be clear, relevant and rigorous  evidence  such  that BoI could 
confidently report the matter to the police. 
The application form requires  Mr G to provide   and sign a declaration that he has 
provided  complete and accurate information. And so he should;  its only on the 
basis of complete and accurate information that a proper lending  decision can be 
made. But I think evidence of fraud  such as is required  by the database   requires 
evidence not just of inaccuracy but of dishonesty.
Im not persuaded that threshold has been  reached  in this case. I note that BoI didnt 
make any further enquiries  of Mr G, or more  generally  before making a report. 
The law requires payslips to be prepared in advance of payment being made. These 
were. Its unusual  for them to be prepared three  months in advance.  But Mr Gs 
account has been corroborated by his accountant. As he runs a small business, and 
is the sole director and employee, he and his accountant limit administrative 
expenses  and one of the ways of doing  that is to have  the accountant prepare 
documents quarterly  not monthly. Mr G ought  to have provided evidence  of income 
hed actually received, not of income  he was going to receive in the future. But while 
this business practice  may be unusual, I dont think it amounts to evidence  of fraud. 
Mr Gs answer  about the ownership of his business  didnt match Companies House 
records either. He declared he didnt  own more  than 25%; official  records  said he 
owned 75% or more. Hes explained  that he had decided to pass shares on to his 
children, but they later decided it would  be better  if he retained full ownership. He 
hasnt been able to provide evidence of this, because he says he didnt file, or retain 
copies of, the required forms following the change  of mind.
Ive considered the evidence here.  Mr G doesnt  have  documentary evidence to 
support his account. But again I bear in mind the principles,  and the burden on BoI. 
While there  is undoubtedly a discrepancy between  what Mr G put on the form and 
what was recorded  at Companies House,  Im not persuaded BoI has shown that the 
discrepancy meets the standard required to show that there  are reasonable grounds 
to believe fraud has been  committed or attempted.
Taking everything into account,  therefore, I think BoI was too quick to make a report  
to the database.  It could  have made  further enquiries, and considered the outcome of 
those enquiries, before  doing so. And because it didnt, Im not persuaded its been  
able to show that the threshold for making  a report has been met.
In the circumstances, I think it would be fair to require BoI to remove  the entry its 
made on the database. Mr G says the entry has caused him financial loss  for 
example, because hes been  turned down  for finance elsewhere.
I havent seen  evidence of that as yet. If in response to this provisional decision Mr G 
can provide evidence that he has been turned down for finance  and that the 
database entry was the reason for rejection   Ill consider whether theres been any 
financial loss. But I note that the database requires of its members  that an entry  
should only be a reason  to make their own enquiries; it shouldnt be a reason for 
automatic refusal  of an application. In any case, at the moment, I dont have any 
evidence of loss and so cant propose an award  of compensation for financial loss. 
Ref: DRN05950393But I do think the record has caused  Mr G considerable trouble and upset, and Im 
minded to require  BoI to pay him £400 compensation for that.
Both parties  replied to my provisional  decision. BoI said it didnt agree with what I had said. It 
reiterated that it considered that what Mr G had said on the application wasnt  correct.  It said 
this amounted to a misrepresentation  and was fraudulent. It referred me to the Fraud Act 
2006. And it said the payslips he provided were  future payslips, not records of pay already 
received, and therefore couldnt be verified.  It considers it made  all enquiries it felt necessary 
and the threshold  for making  a report was met. 
Mr G provided  evidence  of what he said were his financial losses.  These related to 
increased costs for car finance, and interest he had to pay on credit cards he wasnt able to 
switch to new 0% deals.
Having considered the evidence, I emailed both parties setting out what I was minded to 
direct BoI to pay by way of further  compensation. I told BoI I was minded to require it to pay 
some of Mr Gs claimed losses, but not all. I said:
Both parties  responded and Ive considered what  they had to say. 
Having done so, I see no reason to change my view that this complaint  should be 
upheld. Bo
I hasnt provided any further  evidence or argument beyond  what it has already said.  Its not 
in dispute that the information  Mr G gave wasnt accurate  in respect of the shareholding. But 
as I said  and as the Fraud Act says  fraud  requires not just inaccuracy but dishonesty. Im 
not persuaded that BoI made sufficient enquiries or had sufficient evidence to be fairly 
satisfied the threshold  for making  a report had been met.
Mr G says that his financial losses caused by the marker are:
Higher interest on a loan for an Audi
Higher interest on a loan for a BMW,  replacing  the Audi
Interest on credit cards charged  because  he was refused 0% balance transfer 
deals
He has provided  evidence from his bank that the CIFAS  marker  was a major 
contributing factor in the refusal of loan agreements with his bank, leading  him to 
take out specialist vehicle  finance instead. The bank  has estimated that had it been  
able to lend, it would  have done so at 3.5  3.6%
I then attached copies of the evidence Mr G had provided, and went  on:
I dont think the evidence is sufficient to show that Mr G was refused a credit  card or 
balance transfer  because of the CIFAS  marker. A credit  application  can be refused 
for many reasons. However,  I do think the email from his bank is persuasive 
evidence that its likely  that, but for the CIFAS  marker, he would  have been  able to 
take personal loans  rather  than vehicle  finance.  
I therefore intend, in my final decision  and in addition to the £400 compensation I 
directed in my provisional decision, to require Bank  of Ireland to pay Mr G the 
additional monthly payments he has paid and will pay on the two loan agreements  
(the Audi for the months  between  March  and November 2019,  followed by the BMW  
Ref: DRN05950394from December 2019 until December 2024), compared to five year personal loans at 
3.6%. 
I also contacted  Mr G in similar terms.
BoI said it had no further comments  to make. Mr G said that in fact the loan had been 
agreed, and was only withdrawn at the last minute  when the marker came to light.  He 
agreed with my proposed redress in respect  of the car loans.
However Mr G didnt  agree with me about the credit  card interest.  He said that card 
providers dont disclose  the reasons for a refusal. But before the marker he was able to 
obtain new cards and balance transfer deals with no problems, but after the marker was 
unable to do so. He said that a marker would  result in the refusal of a credit application and it 
was a reasonable conclusion that this is what  had happened here. There  might not be direct 
evidence, but the balance  of probability was clear.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I remain of the view that this complaint should  be upheld. 
Im not persuaded that BoI had sufficient evidence to reasonably conclude that the threshold 
for putting a marker on had been  met. 
Ive seen Mr Gs correspondence with his bank, which  confirms  that the CIFAS marker  was a 
major factor in his loan application being  rejected. Im satisfied, that on balance,  its more 
likely than not that but for the marker,  his application  would  have been  granted. And Im 
therefore satisfied  that its fair for BoI to meet the additional costs  caused by his taking  a 
loan elsewhere.  I dont intend  to add interest to the refund  of payments Mr G has already 
made, since the loss caused by having paid out some of those  amounts  in the past is offset 
by the benefit  of getting the refund  of future  payments in advance.
However, Im not persuaded by the evidence in relation to the credit  cards.  Mr G has given 
me a rejection letter in respect  of one application.  That letter  doesnt  give a definite reason 
for refusal  but says possible reasons are related to the Mr Gs use of his account  with that 
bank. It says no credit check has been  carried out.
There are many reasons  why a credit card application can be refused.  I appreciate  why Mr G 
believes it to be related to the CIFAS  marker.  And I accept thats a possibility  though I note 
the scheme rules  say that a marker  should  lead a firm to make its own enquiries, not simply 
reject an application.  I also note that the letter Mr G has provided shows  the application  was 
made by his company, not by him. I dont  consider  I have enough  evidence  to be able to 
safely conclude that Mr G was refused credit card or balance transfer applications solely  or 
primarily because of the marker.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc to:
Ref: DRN05950395Calculate the difference between the monthly payments on the following loan 
agreements:
oA loan over five years at 9.9% APR borrowing £13,291.64, which was taken 
out on 28 March  2019 and redeemed  on 21 November  2019 and replaced by
oA loan over five years at 7.9% APR, borrowing £21,940, beginning 21 
November 2019
And the same agreements, for the same  amounts and terms, at an APR of 3.6%
Pay Mr G the difference between the monthly payments over the terms of the loans; 
and
Pay Mr G £400 compensation.
I have already provided Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc with copies of the loan agreements to 
assist in making that calculation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0595039