K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt pay the correct  maturity 
value for the mortgage endowment policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs A were  advised by an independent  adviser to take out an endowment  policy to 
repay their mortgage. The policy was set up to achieve the target sum of £115,000 on 
maturity. This value wasnt guaranteed and was dependant on the performance  of the with 
profits fund. The policy had a basic sum assured of £49,565 on which bonuses were added, 
with the aim of sufficient bonuses to achieve  the target sum. The policy  had a maturity date 
of December 2009.
In 2002 Mr A became unwell and he stopped paying  premiums into the policy. In 2003 he 
asked for information  about his policy. In December 2003 Aviva provided  a surrender 
illustration. This showed a surrender value of £45,535 and a deduction of £5,812.12  for the 
premium loan plus interest  leaving a total surrender value of £39,722.88. 
Over the years Mr and Mrs A were sent further  information about their policy, including 
letters warning of a high risk of a shortfall  on maturity. Their  policy  reached its maturity  date 
in December 2009. Rather than take the maturity proceeds then they decided to leave  the 
policy invested. The maturity pack advised  the estimated maturity  value was £90,855.09 
which included the £11,000 mortgage  endowment  promise. The pack further explained  there 
were outstanding premiums plus interest that need to be deducted from that value. 
Mr A was contacted in 2010 with regards  to his intentions with the policy. Mr A asked for the 
policy value and says he was told the policy would pay out circa  £90,000.  Mr and Mrs A 
decided to take the proceeds of the policy and they completed the payment release forms in 
October 2010 (it isnt clear if these are the forms from the 2009 maturity  pack  or if new forms 
were sent out). 
In November 2010, Aviva paid Mr and Mrs A a total of £55,972.51 in two separate payments. 
This represented the maturity value of the policy less the loan to pay for premiums that they 
didnt make between  July 2002  and November 2009. 
Not happy with this Mr and Mrs A complained  in 2011. Aviva considered the complaint but 
didnt uphold  it. It explained the maturity  pay out was reduced by the premium loan. But they 
remained an unhappy and complained  again in 2013 including  a new complaint that a 
member of staff had left during dealing with the enquiry. Aviva didnt revisit the complaint 
again. Later that same year Mr and Mrs A complained about  the sale of the policy  and they 
were referred to their adviser. 
In 2018 Mr and Mrs A made a complaint about  payment  protection  insurance, but referenced 
their endowment policy number. Aviva  replied explaining it wasnt  PPI. Over the next few 
months, Mr and Mrs A continued complaining about  the proceeds  of the policy  (and that it 
hadnt performed  well), including to the CEO. A reply  to their complaint was sent in 
December 2018  after Mr and Mrs A asked us to get involved. This didnt uphold their 
complaint and provided a further  30 days for Mr and Mrs A to refer the matter  to us (previous 
referral rights had expired).
Ref: DRN03998012When sending in its file Aviva said it thought the complaint had been made late. Our 
investigator explained why he was satisfied  the complaint had been made in time; it was 
about the maturity  value  of the policy and a complaint had been made within a year of taking 
the proceeds. He was also satisfied the complaint had been referred in time as Aviva had 
extended Mr and Mrs As referral rights. 
Our investigator went on to fully investigate the complaint  and didnt uphold  it. He wasnt 
satisfied Aviva had acted unfairly  or contrary to the terms  of the conditions of the contract by 
deducting the outstanding  premiums from the maturity value. He also wasnt  persuaded that 
any guarantee given in a phone call meant  Aviva  was required to pay out more. 
Mr and Mrs A werent happy  with the outcome. They explained Mr A had been unwell and 
premiums hadnt been  paid.  Since 2002  he had several conversations in which  he had been 
told because of the missed premiums  and performance the policy  it wasnt  going to reach 
the target  sum, but this had been left as things may have  picked  up. In 2010 before deciding 
to take the proceeds he was guaranteed to be paid circa £90,000. He wanted  the call 
listened to. And he explained it wasnt until his second complaint in 2013 that he was 
provided with a copy of the 2011 final response. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to alter his view.  And so Mr and Mrs A asked for the 
matter to be escalated.  They also requested a hearing with the ombudsman.  We wrote out to 
Mr and Mrs A asking  for their reasons  for the hearing request. Although we received further 
arguments against the outcome and indications that Mr A was trying to obtain  further  
information, we never  received any reasons. So I proceeded to consider the hearing request 
which I declined on 28 May 2019   I was satisfied I could reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome based  on the papers before me. 
Both parties  were provided with time to provide further comments.  Mr and Mrs A have said, 
in summary, that:
They were guaranteed  circa  £90,000 by a member of staff. When  they called to 
query the missing  amount they were told he had left. They have since been told he 
hadnt left but had moved department. 
They want the missing  amount plus 8% interest on that sum. 
Aviva  says conversations  are recorded but now say there  is no record.  The complaint 
handler (in 2013) said he had listened  to calls but there are no conversations  on the 
tapes. 
The staff member who guaranteed  the circa £90,000 supposedly wrote to them in 
2011. The letter is unsigned. But as he was told that staff member had left in 2010,  
did he write the letter and was it actually  sent? They have since  been told there is no 
record of this letter. 
On top of the missing funds Mr and Mrs A believe  they are entitled to a generous  
amount of compensation for the distress  caused over the last nine years. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
Ref: DRN03998013Firstly, I would like to reassure both parties  that although I have only summarised the 
background and arguments above,  I have read and considered  all of the information 
provided in its entirety. 
At the heart  of this dispute is whether Mr and Mrs A have beee paid the correct maturity  
proceeds from their policy. The information we have,  and which Mr and Mrs A dont dispute, 
is that they stopped paying  premiums  in 2002  and never paid them  again  until the policy  
reached its official maturity date in 2009.  They then decided to continue holding  the policy, 
finally taking the proceeds in 2010. 
The policy document, which forms the basis of the contract between Mr and Mrs A and Aviva 
(previously Norwich Union) says:
Unpaid premiums
This section only applies if the policy has a surrender value.
1 If a premium is not received by the Society  within thirty days of becoming due, it will 
be advanced out of the Surrender Value as a loan on this policy, provided there  is 
adequate Surrender Value within the policy. 
2 Compound interest will be charged from the due date of each premium advanced, 
at a rate determined  by the Society.
3 Any advanced premium shall be repayable by the policyholder  to the Society  in one 
sum within twelve months of the date on which if fell due and until such repayment is 
made it shall be secured,  with all unpaid interest,  by a first charge on the policy in 
favour of the Society.
So the terms of the policy set out that premiums will be paid in the form of a loan against the 
proceeds of the policy, if the policy holder misses  payments.  That is what happened  here, for 
a number of years. 
And although Mr and Mrs A say they were  never  told about  this I disagree. Aviva  has 
provided copies  of correspondence that shows Mr and Mrs A were  told about this. A letter 
sent in December 2003 (described  above) set out that an amount would be taken from the 
surrender value for the premium  loan. And again in the maturity  pack sent in 2009, its set out 
that outstanding premiums  need  to be deducted from the figures given.  So Im satisfied they 
were aware of the premium loan albeit they might not have been aware of the full impact  
until deciding to take the proceeds. 
I accept Mr A recalls being  guaranteed  circa  £90,000 when  he called in 2010.  But it is far 
from certain that is actually what happened instead  of someone simply giving him a value. Its 
unfortunate there is no recording of the call available now,  which isnt surprising given the 
passage of time and that there  is no obligation  for call recordings to be kept (assuming  it was 
recorded in the first place). But even if I accept  what Mr A says as true that doesnt mean  he 
is entitled to that sum as he seems to think. 
I agree  that being provided  with incorrect information would be extremely  disappointing.  But 
providing incorrect information wouldnt override the contract Mr and Mrs A entered into. And 
Im not persuaded the content of the call itself would make a binding contract either, 
particularly where  there hadnt been a meeting  of minds between the parties  as there  
wasnt here; an error had been made.  In order to put right an error we look to put policy  
holders in the position they would have been  in had the error not been made  that is, had 
they been given the correct information.  Given the circumstances here, Mr and Mrs As 
Ref: DRN03998014position would be no different to what it was; they simply would have been given correct  
information about how much they would actually receive beforehand.
I understand Mr and Mrs A feel very strongly  about this. But I find no basis  on which  to 
require Aviva to pay them  the difference between what  they believe  they are entitled to and 
what the contract says they are entitled  to. 
I am aware  that usually a loan would  only last for 12 months, after which the policy  would 
lapse with a value (more commonly  known  as becoming paid up, less the loan). This would 
have resulted in the policy continuing  to provide life cover  from the value, which might have 
resulted in the policy lapsing without  a value after a period of time. Instead,  the policy 
continued, which meant it provided the full amount of life cover over that time and continued  
to be invested.  Im not persuaded  Mr and Mrs A have lost out as a result of the policy 
continuing with the loan,  rather  than being  lapsed  with a value after 12 months of non-
payment of premiums. 
I turn now to the other  matters Mr and Mrs A are unhappy about. I respond to these points 
only for the sake of completeness, as Im not persuaded they have  any bearing on the 
outcome I have reached above. 
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy about  the unavailability of a call recording, particularly as a 
complaint handler  mentioned having listened  to calls in 2013.  As I set out above, there is no 
requirement for calls to be recorded  and if they are, for those records  to be kept any specific 
length of time. That a call isnt available in 2018/2019 doesnt mean it wasnt available in 
2013. 
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy they were told a member  of staff had left, only to find out later 
that he had moved  department. It is possible that these are two different members of staff 
that happen to have  the same name, its equally possible  that the staff member  moved  from 
a customer service role to a complaint handling role, hence  the letter being from him a year 
later. I cant know for certain. I do understand why Mr and Mrs A are upset at seemingly 
being given conflicting information,  but as I have  decided any guarantee they believe they 
were given isnt binding, Im not persuaded this makes a material difference  to the outcome 
of their complaint.  
 
Mr and Mrs A also believe  they are entitled to a generous amount of compensation. But as I 
have found Aviva hasnt  done anything wrong I dont make any award. I do understand how 
very difficult it must  be not receiving enough to repay a mortgage and the financial strain this 
must have  placed  on them cant have been easy. But I think  the distress they have suffered 
is as a result  of the non-payment of premiums  rather than anything Aviva  had done. I do 
understand this might  have been outside of their control,  particularly as Mr A had become  
unwell. But that wasnt the fault of Aviva either and I find no basis on which to make  such an 
award. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN03998015Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0399801