K820x#14complaint 
Mr T complains that Infinox Capital Limited  gave him unsuitable  trading advice that caused 
him total losses of around €50,000.
background
Mr T opened a trading  account with Infinox  in July 2016. He says he was approached by an 
individual well call Mr F and encouraged to begin trading. It appears a third party  introducing 
broker was also involved in the opening  of the account. 
To open the account, Mr T had to follow Infinoxs online application  process. This included  
an appropriateness assessment, given the products on offer included contracts for 
differences and foreign exchange contracts. Amongst other things, the assessment gathered 
relevant information  from Mr T in order to see whether he had the necessary knowledge and 
experience to understand the risks involved.
Mr T didnt  pass  the appropriateness assessment. So he was shown a warning about the 
risks involved which  he had to accept before continuing to open  the account.  Mr T began 
trading and says he followed advice from Mr F. Several positions were  opened  in 
commodities, foreign exchange and indices. Unfortunately, within a month or so, Mr T lost all 
of the money  hed deposited. 
In November 2018, Mr T made a complaint about  what had happened.  He said hed been 
phoned by someone called Mr F who claimed to be a representative of Infinox and that he 
was told about  Mr Fs experience in the field and his successes. Mr T says Mr F promised 
profits if he traded  with him, but that there  wasnt any mention made about taking a high 
level of risk with his money. 
Mr T says he took Mr Fs trading advice and followed  his exact instructions  with regards to 
the currency, timing and size of the positions. He recalls Mr F saying things like the 
experience being a once  in a lifetime  opportunity,  that hed make  a lot of money and that he 
must trade big to earn big. He says he was encouraged to deposit more  money  into the 
account in order  to continue trading. 
Overall, he felt it was wrong  for Mr F to advise him to make the sorts of trades he did, given 
his lack of experience with these sorts of investments. He said hed not been warned of the 
risks and complained  that Infinox werent  supposed  to give advice  as a beginner in the 
field, he thought  he ought to have  been made to open a demo  account  first. So he asked for 
his money to be refunded.
Infinox considered the complaint but didnt agree theyd done anything  wrong   they said 
that Mr F wasnt  associated with their business whatsoever,  so if Mr T was unhappy  with his 
advice he ought  to contact him.  
Unhappy with this, Mr T asked for our help. One of our investigators  looked at what  had 
happened, but he agreed with Infinox in that they hadnt done  anything wrong. Our 
investigator couldnt see that Mr F was associated with Infinox, so they couldnt  bear 
responsibility for the advice hed given. He said Mr Ts account was execution-only, so no 
advice was given  and while he wasnt an appropriate candidate for this sort of trading, 
Infinox had done enough here as theyd warned him of the risks involved and by continuing 
Ref: DRN09265582to open the account, Mr T had accepted these risks.  So he didnt agree there were grounds  
to have the lost money refunded.
Mr T didnt  agree  while he didnt  have any letters or emails to evidence it, he was certain 
Mr F was associated  with Infinox and that the advice  given was in breach of their terms. So 
the matter was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and while I recognise 
this will be very disappointing for Mr T, I agree with what our investigator said for similar 
reasons. 
advice and Mr F
The main  thrust of Mr Ts arguments in this case  is that he was given advice by Mr F who 
was associated with Infinox. But Infinox say they have nothing  to do with Mr F  he was not 
a current or former employee nor did they have a direct relationship  with anyone of his 
name. 
Like our investigator,  I reviewed the regulated individuals as well as appointed 
representatives associated with Infinox but couldnt  find anyone by Mr Fs name as having  
either current or previous association with the firm. 
In the absence of any real evidence about  Mr Fs involvement here, I cant  say it was fair for 
Mr T to have reasonably  perceived an apparent authority from Infinox to Mr F to deliver  
investment advice on their behalf. So while I appreciate Mr Ts strength of feeling here, Im 
afraid Im not satisfied  Mr Fs actions can be associated with Infinox.
But theres another party potentially involved too  the introducing  broker. So Ive thought  
about them  as well, in case thats who Mr F worked  for. 
Ive taken a look at the contract between Infinox  and the introducing  broker but this 
confirmed that the broker  wasnt an agent of Infinox, nor was it a partner, employee,  
appointed representative or tied agent. And that nothing could be construed to create a joint 
venture, partnership or agency relationship between the parties.  It also confirmed that the 
introducing brokers  firm was not to provide  advice  in relation to the platform  or services  
offered by Infinox. So overall, Im satisfied that the introducing broker  had no authority to 
give Mr T advice  on behalf of Infinox. 
The terms for Mr Ts account also said no advice would be provided  and from all Ive seen, 
Im satisfied his account was an execution-only service.  Infinox  were  therefore not directly or 
indirectly responsible  for giving any advice, nor were they obliged  to. Given  Mr Ts insistence 
that he received  advice,  perhaps it was the case that hed reached some sort of agreement 
with Mr F directly.  But it doesnt then follow he could reasonably  have perceived that advice 
as being from or on behalf of Infinox  the terms of the account set that out rather  clearly.
So from everything Ive seen, I dont think any advice given by Mr F is something  Infinox 
should now be responsible for. 
appropriateness
Ref: DRN09265583As Infinox  are a regulated  firm theyre  subject to the rules set out in the regulators handbook 
 the conduct  of business (COBS) section is whats relevant  here. Infinox werent required to 
assess the suitability  of Mr Ts upcoming trading  given they werent going to be giving him 
any advice. However, to trade as he did COBS 10 required Infinox to assess  his 
appropriateness for doing so. In other words, this required them  to gather relevant 
information from Mr T in order to decide whether  he had the necessary  knowledge  and 
experience to understand the risks involved. 
Looking at the answers Mr T provided, I can see that he didnt have the knowledge  and 
experience to pass the appropriateness test. He stated that he had no trading experience,  
earned less than €15,000 a year, had less than €40,000, had liquid assets under €5,000  and 
that his initial  deposit amount was more  than 25% of his net liquid assets.  However, it 
doesnt follow that Infinox did anything wrong by letting him open  an account  anyway.  The 
rules say that if the firm warn the client of the concerns, they are still able to go ahead  and 
open an account with regards to the wider circumstances.
Infinox told us that when Mr T completed his appropriateness assessment, hed have been 
given the following warning:
"We note you have  limited trading experience.  Trading Forex  and CFDs carry a high 
level of risks and may not be suitable  for all investors. Before deciding  to participate 
in the Forex and CFD market, you should  carefully consider your investment  
objectives, level of experience and risk appetite. You should obtain independent 
advice if necessary".
While it didnt explicitly say the account would be inappropriate, I think  the standardised 
warning was adequate and ought  to have put Mr T on notice that his limited  experience  
meant the account  may not have been right for him. I also think  the warning was sufficiently 
significant given  Mr T couldnt have continued  with the application  process without accepting 
it. 
Having given the warning,  and with it being accepted, Infinox then had the option to either  
turn down Mr Ts application  or proceed with it. They chose to proceed and allow the 
account to be opened. Mr T may now argue this wasnt the right thing to do, but the 
regulators rules permitted  Infinox  to do this while having regard to the circumstances. And 
Ive not seen evidence of wider circumstances that should have prevented  Infinox from 
opening the account  so while the option for them  was there, they didnt  have to turn Mr T 
away. 
Overall I dont think it was wrong for Infinox to let Mr T trade  they warned him they didnt 
think the account was appropriate  for him but he chose to accept  the warning and proceed 
regardless. He chose to trade and to follow Mr Fs advice. So despite  Mr Ts inexperience, I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable for the risks he accepted at the time to now be 
transferred to Infinox  by way of them compensating him for his losses.
I sympathise with Mr Ts position as I can see hes lost a lot of money  and I dont 
underestimate his strength  of feeling about his complaint. But from everything Ive seen, 
theres no evidence  to show Mr F was acting  for or on behalf of Infinox, so they cannot be 
held responsible for any advice he gave Mr T. And for the reasons Ive explained above, I 
dont think Mr Ts losses are something for which Infinox ought  fairly and reasonably  to be 
held responsible for.
Ref: DRN09265584my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 December  2020.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0926558