K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr and Mrs B when they applied to Abbey  
National for a mortgage in 1997.  The policy covered Mr B for accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. 
Santander merged  with Abbey National so Ill refer to Santander in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. Mr and Mrs Bs main concern is that they were given the impression that PPI was a 
condition of their mortgage.  Theyre also concerned that the policy shouldve been  in their 
joint names so it covered  both of them. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Mr and Mrs B had a joint mortgage  so Ive looked  at both their circumstances when the 
insurance was taken out. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  about  the way Santander  sold them PPI just based  
on what they say. I must look at all the available information and decide what I think  is most 
likely.
I think Santander made Mr and Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional  and they chose to 
take it out. I say this because where  it mentions PPI on Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application 
theyve ticked yes to say they wanted  to apply for PPI. There  was a no option they 
couldve ticked instead to say they didn't require PPI if they hadnt  wanted the cover.  So I 
think Mr and Mrs B wouldve seen that PPI was separate to the mortgage. And it was up to 
them to say if they wanted to have it.
Mr and Mrs B wouldve had to fill in a separate application form to have PPI added  on to 
their mortgage. They  wouldve  been  able to choose the amount of cover they wanted and 
they wouldve  been able to say if they wanted  to share the benefit.  
On balance, based on all the information  I've seen,  I think the PPI was added  to 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage when they decided they wanted to have the benefits the policy  
could offer them and they chose the cover they wanted. 
Santander recommended  the PPI and it doesnt  look like it was unsuitable  based  on what 
Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time. 
Ref: DRN00219822Mr and Mrs B couldve chosen to protect  their mortgage monthly repayments for up to 
24 months per accident and sickness claim if theyd wanted to as the policy  offered this 
option. To be as fair as possible to Mr and Mrs B, I've looked at their complaint on the basis  
they just had 12 months accident and sickness cover.  
Mr B told us he was entitled to at least 12 months  full sick pay. Looking  at his circumstances  
at the time, I dont  know how likely  it is that he wouldve got as much sick pay as he thought. 
In any event, PPI wouldve paid out, on top of any sick pay, for at least  12 months per claim. 
This couldve been a useful  benefit at whats likely to have been  a difficult time if Mr B 
needed to claim as he mightve  had extra costs if he was ill or disabled. 
The policy wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months per claim in the event that Mr B lost 
his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
I dont know if Mr and Mrs B wouldve  always had savings they could've  relied on to cover 
their mortgage monthly repayments and other outgoings if Mr B wasn't  working. Repeat 
claims were  possible under this policy giving  Mr and Mrs B long term protection for their 
mortgage whilst they were paying for their home.
Mr B was the main  earner  and he was eligible for the policy.  So I can see why Mr and Mrs B 
mightve wanted to protect his income. I think losing his income wouldve had a significant 
impact on Mr and Mrs Bs financial position.  I dont know how long its likely that Mrs B 
wouldve been able to manage the monthly mortgage  repayments on her own for very long if 
Mr B wasnt  working. So I think having  this cover wouldve been important to Mr and Mrs B 
at the time, even  if theyve forgotten now.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs B are concerned that the cover  wasnt set up in the 
way they wouldve wanted  they say they believed all their mortgage arrangements were  
set up jointly. But, this doesn't affect  my overall view. Thats because even if the policy  
benefits shouldve  been split between  them,  it wouldve  only made a difference if 
Mr and Mrs B had lost out in money  terms as a result of the benefit not being shared. That 
never happened as they made  no claim on the policy. This means even if Santander made  a 
mistake about this, I cant say Mr and Mrs B are worse off financially. 
Its possible some of the information  Mr B was given about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Mr Bs case. So, I dont  think having  more  information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected his decision to take it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs B when they bought  the policy. 
But they chose  to take out the cover when they couldve  said they didnt want it  so it seems 
they were happy  at the time to pay for it. Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy  wasnt  
affordable for Mr and Mrs B. They couldve cancelled it at any time if they didnt want to keep 
paying for it. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs B still wouldve decided to buy the policy  even if theyd been better 
informed as the policy gave them useful protection in their particular situation. 
So, I dont find theyve  lost out as a result of anything that Santander mightve done wrong. 
This means  Santander  doesnt need to do anything to put things  right.
Ref: DRN00219823my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0021982