K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP lent irresponsibly.
background
Loan Amount Total interest agreed (rounded)
Approved Repaid Term and 
instalment amount (rounded)
1 £300 £152 19 December 
201516 March 2016 3 months
£151 x 3
2 £150 £93 4 April 2016 8 June 2016 3 months
£65 x 3
3 £200 £84 1 October 2016 21 November 
201678 days
£95, £95 & 
£93 
This table  uses information provided by Uncle Buck and is a summary. I have a copy  of the 
agreement for Loan 3 but not for Loans 1 and 2. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought that Uncle  Buck should put 
things right for all three of the loans.  Uncle  Buck disagreed for Loans 1 and 2 but did 
concede for Loan  3. So that is not in dispute and I am not reviewing it here.  Uncle Buck  
asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman  for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  short-term  lending - including  all the relevant rules,  guidance  
and good industry  practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. In the early  stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include: where a customers income  is particularly low; where the repayments  are 
particularly high; and/or  where the frequency of the loans and the length  of time over which  a 
customer has been given  loans need  to be looked  at: repeated  refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing  had become, or was becoming,  unsustainable.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But that does not apply in Mrs Rs case. 
Ref: DRN06996382I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mrs R could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. In particular the customer  should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments,  and without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments,  evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint.  Loan  3 has been conceded by Uncle  
Buck and so I have  looked at Loans  1 and 2 only. 
Proportionate checks for Loan 1 was for Uncle Buck to know Mrs Rs income. She was a 
new customer and the loan of £300 was to be repaid over three months.  I can see that it had 
her declared  income and declared expenditure. I think the debate  over whether Mrs R was 
paid £1,100 each four weeks or each calendar month  is largely irrelevant. Creditworthiness  
checks are to be from the borrowers perspective  and on Mrs Rs own declared income and 
expenditure then it looks  to be a very narrow margin left after repayment of the £150 each 
month for Loan  1. 
I see that Uncle Buck carried out some credit  checks. Uncle  Buck often states to us, and has 
repeated here, that it can only make a decision  on what it can see. Having obtained the 
information available to it through the credit checks then it needs to take into account what it 
finds. These may have revealed  some history that probably ought  to have prompted Uncle 
Buck to make an extra check and consider  Mrs Rs expenditure  more  closely. 
I am not satisfied it did that and in light of all the information it had gathered from its 
up to date credit checks I think its more likely than not that affording  this loan was going to 
be difficult for Mrs R. And I think that a responsible lender ought not to have lent. I uphold 
Mrs Rs complaint for Loan 1.
For Loan 2, Uncle Buck had carried out some  credit checks and that revealed an increase in 
overall debt from £781 to £2,920. I think that this was enough of an increase  to have made it 
realise that a responsible lender ought not to add to that debt increase which,  in my view, 
was becoming too much.  And this could be demonstrated using the information Uncle Buck  
had gathered with its searches. What I mean by this is: for Loan 1 the credit  searches 
revealed no delinquencies within the previous 12 months. This would have meant  
December 2014  to December 2015.  And for Loan 2 there were 2 delinquencies within  the 
12 months, so that would have meant  from April 2015 to April 2016. This leads me to work 
out that between December  2015 and April 2016  Mrs R had two accounts which have 
deteriorated into being delinquent. This was when Mrs R was repaying Loan 1. It suggests 
that she was not managing debt in general  and was demonstrated as such  as she came  
back to Uncle Buck for another  loan. 
I uphold Mrs Rs complaint about  Loan  2. 
Ref: DRN06996383Uncle Buck  has accepted  that it needs to put things  right for Loan 3 and so I say no more  
about that lending decision.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs R paid on Loan 1 to 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year* on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about Loans 1 to 3 from Mrs Rs credit file;
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mrs R a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint and direct that Uncle Buck  does as 
I have outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0699638