K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which Mr S says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold to him with a credit  card account he took out in 1993. We know  
that for a time Lloyds  issued  joint Visa and Mastercards on the same account.
It seems  Mr Ss Visa card ended in 2010 and the Mastercard in 2005.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. However, Mr S has already been paid some money for the commission 
Lloyds received from selling him the PPI.
Mr S still thinks he was mis-sold the PPI in the first place and has therefore asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss mis-sale complaint.
The history  of his credit  card account  isnt particularly clear due to how long ago all this was. 
However, Im satisfied the original date when Mr S took out his account  with the joint cards  
was December 1993. Obviously this is now some  25 years ago, so its not unusual  or 
unreasonable that Lloyds  doesnt still have a copy of his application form. Businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely.
Nevertheless my experience of these types  of sale is that its more  likely Mr S would  have 
completed an application which gave him an option to either have  or not have  PPI on his 
new credit  card account. I was also sent copies of Mr Ss credit card statements where he 
appears to have been charged regularly for PPI. The sums tend to be small but they are 
described on his monthly statements as Payments Insurance Premium.
Theres no dispute PPI was sold with these cards, so I think its more  likely Mr S asked  for 
the cover. I think if he hadnt, he would have wanted to know what  the charges were  for.
So I think its more likely  Lloyds properly obtained Mr Ss consent.
Lloyds says it may have  recommended the PPI cover so this means it was under an 
obligation to make sure it was suitable  for Mr Ss situation. I looked at Mr Ss age, job, health 
and general circumstances to help me decide  about this. 
I think that Mr S was eligible for the PPI and I dont think he would  have been  caught by any 
of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies.  We also now know the cost was 
around £0.79 per £100 of the outstanding  monthly balance on Mr Ss account. Ive seen 
nothing that suggests he would have  found these charges unaffordable.
Ref: DRN07170572Mr S says he already  had sickness protection with his job from that time, implying he didnt 
need the cover. I understand his point, but Im afraid this doesnt  mean  the policy wasnt  
suitable. In the event  of a successful claim for example, Mr S wouldve been able to have his 
outstanding balance reduced by 10% each month for up to 12 months. These  benefits  were 
accessible in addition  to any other  means he already had in place at the time. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I think the cover was probably  suitable for him.
Lloyds also had to give Mr S clear information.  I cant confirm he was told everything he 
shouldve been  told. But on balance, I think he was given a choice  and he agreed to the 
policy. I also think he would have been given some documents explaining how the cover 
worked.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all the costs  of the PPI. But Lloyds has 
already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because when the policy  was sold, it 
expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - it should have  told Mr S about  that. Because Lloyds didnt, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has already  paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC has already paid him for the commission  and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0717057