K820x#14complaint 
Mrs M complains that not being able to voluntary  terminate her Personal Contract 
Purchase (PCP) agreement with Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) 
without incurring a financial penalty  until having  paid off 50% of the credit agreement  was 
unfair, as this point  was only reached  at the end of the agreement. Mrs M also says this 
wasnt explained to her when she took out the agreement.
Mrs M has been assisted in her complaint by her husband, Mr M, and he also dealt  with 
VWFS on behalf of her. But for ease  Ive referred to Mrs M rather than Mr M throughout 
this decision, as its her complaint.
background
In October 2015 Mrs M entered into a PCP with VWFS for a new car. The agreement  
was for three years.
In July 2018  a settlement figure was requested for Mrs Ms car. VWFS informed Mrs M that 
the Voluntary Termination (VT)  quote was £1,989.82. VWFS says it explained there  was 
a shortfall due to the agreement  not being  due to end until November 2018.
There were further calls between VWFS and Mrs M regarding the options available,  and 
in September  2018 a hand-back request was diarised by VWFS for October 2018 and the 
process was started. Mrs M handed the car back at the end of the agreement.
Mrs M complained to VWFS that the VT process  wasnt properly explained to her when 
she took out the agreement.
VWFS didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. It said that the right to VT was set out at the start of 
the agreement  and that it wasnt unreasonable to expect that anyone signing the 
agreement wouldve read the terms and conditions.  VWFS also said it was satisfied that 
the end of contract options including VT wouldve been mentioned  during  discussions with 
the salesman.
Mrs M complained to this service. Our adjudicator  didnt recommend that her 
complaint should  be upheld.  She said she didnt think  VWFS had acted unreasonably.  
The agreement set out under the section Termination: Your  Rights  that You have  
the right to end this agreement They will then be entitled to return of the goods  and 
half the amount  payable  under this agreement,  that is £12,881.76. If you have  paid at 
least this amount plus any overdue instalments  and have taken reasonable care of the 
goods, you will not have  to pay any more. And the adjudicator said this explained  the 
VT process  clearly and that it was 50% of the total payable  and not 50% of the value 
of the car that needed to be settled to terminate the agreement without incurring 
charges.
Our adjudicator said it would be unfair to comment on what  had been said by the 
dealership but Mrs M had signed the agreement and it was reasonable to think  shed 
understood the terms and agreed to be bound by them.
Mrs M disagreed with our adjudicators view.  She said that they had discussed VT on the 
phone and at the dealership and had been advised to VT the agreement  to cut their 
Ref: DRN02342152losses. Theyd initially been told they could hand  the car back  without penalty but had 
eventually been  told they could not do so until theyd paid 50% of the agreement. However, 
they would  not reach  this figure until the end of the agreement  and so theyd decided to 
continue to make the payments and keep  the car until it came to an end.
Mrs M said she thought the agreement  had been  structured in such a way that she would 
never be able to enter into VT without financial penalty until the 50% amount had been 
paid which  was at the end of the agreement. She said there should be a right to VT without 
financial penalty before  the final payment was made.
As the parties  couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision  
along the following lines.
All regulated finance agreements have a consumer right built into them to VT the 
agreement.  This allows the borrower to cancel a financial agreement  at any point and 
protects the consumer when things change. This right is set out in section 99 of the 
Consumer Credit Act
1974.
However, the right to VT also provides some protection  to the finance  companies so that 
borrowers cant just walk away  from their obligations  at any time. And this is important 
when looking at cars which depreciate over time - meaning a finance  company may have 
to take back a car that is worth less than the outstanding finance amount.
The statutory rule is that you must pay off half the amount borrowed (including any interest 
and fees) and so long as there is no damage  beyond fair wear and tear there  will be no 
more to pay and the goods can be handed back.
However, the point  at which the 50% of the total amount is reached will vary depending  
on the type of financial agreement thats  been  entered in to.
Mrs M took out a PCP for her car. With a PCP Mrs M paid a deposit and was required to 
make monthly payments for the life of the agreement. At the end of the agreement,  if Mrs 
M wanted  to keep  the car she would have to make what is called a balloon payment, 
which was just under half of the total amount. PCPs are popular  because  the monthly  
payments are generally lower than hire purchases  (depending on the size of the deposit 
paid) for the same vehicle.
Looking at the agreement  that was signed  by Mrs M I saw that the VT rights were correctly  
set out and it clearly stated the amount that Mrs M was required to pay to reach  the 50% 
limit. She had signed this agreement to say she accepted the terms and conditions. I 
thought it was reasonable to expect consumers to read agreements before signing them, 
and this important  term appeared at the start of the agreement so I didnt think  it could be 
said to be hidden away.
Mrs M said the VT process wasnt properly explained to her by the dealership. But I thought 
it was unlikely VT hadnt been raised during discussions. I thought  it was more likely than 
not that Mrs M had misunderstood when this 50% figure would be reached under  her 
agreement. And although I appreciated Mrs M felt that she shouldve  been able to VT 
without financial penalties  earlier than the end of the agreement  this wouldve only been 
possible if shed paid a larger  monthly  payment. So I couldnt  say having to pay a settlement 
Ref: DRN02342153figure if shed wanted to VT early wouldve been to her financial detriment under this 
agreement.
As I was unable  to say that this agreement was unfair or unreasonable, I didnt intend to 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Mrs M has accepted my provisional  view though I accept she has done  so with some  
reluctance.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M hasnt  asked  me to look again  at anything I said in my provisional decision so 
although I appreciate she has been  disappointed by my findings I havent  changed  my view.
For the reasons  I have  set out above Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0234215