K822xComplaint
Mr P is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc will no longer allow him to transfer funds from one 
savings account  to another.
Background 
In 2015, Mr P contacted HSBC to open a Regular Saver Account (RSA). Mr P wanted to pay 
into this account  by transferring funds out of his Flexible Saver Account (FSA). In December 
2016, Mr P realised that this transfer hadnt been  taking place and went  into branch to 
complain.
The branch  explained the RSA could only be credited through a standing  order  (SO) but this 
couldnt be created  on his FSA due to internal  policies. Mr P complained about this decision 
and HSBC agreed to lift the restriction on his RSA to allow  a Future  Dated Bill Payment 
(FDBP) to credit the account each month for 12 months.
Over the next few years, Mr P and HSBC  went through the same  process  when he came to 
renew his annual RSA.  Mr P would complain about  the restriction and HSBC would remove  
it in order to resolve the issue.
In December 2018, Mr P again complained about  the restriction.  This time HSBC responded 
explaining setting  up a payment from his FSA would breach internal policies so couldnt be 
arranged. Mr P was unhappy  with HSBCs  response so he referred his complaint to us.
An investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint and recommended HSBC pay £100. This was 
to recognise that, by lifting the restriction to the RSA on multiple occasions, HSBC  had 
confused Mr P as to how the accounts  could be managed. HSBC accepted this.
Mr P was unhappy with the recommendation. He felt as his FSA was a joint savings account, 
his wife had also been impacted as she had also been transferring into an individual  RSA. 
So, he wanted an additional £100 in order to resolve the complaint.
The investigator made HSBC aware  of this request which they declined, saying Mr Ps wife 
didnt hold an RSA any longer and hadnt  raised a complaint herself  throughout the process.
As Mr P didnt accept  the recommendation, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I will be upholding the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
My role isnt to decide whether  HSBCs  internal policies themselves are reasonable. Ive 
considered whether theyve implemented these policies reasonably  when handling Mr Ps 
accounts.
Ive seen HSBCs website  which explains the way in which their RSAs  work. It states  
Regular deposits  must  be made by standing order each month and I think  this makes their 
Ref: DRN04611162customers reasonably  aware of how the account  can be managed.  I think Mr P was aware of 
this as Ive seen he sought to make special arrangements each year from 2015 onwards.
So, from 2015 to the end of 2018,  HSBC have  allowed Mr P to operate his account outside 
of its usual internal  policies  when making payments by FDBP. Im aware HSBC allowed this 
to resolve previous complaints Mr P made,  despite explaining that this wasnt  their usual 
process. 
I think this created an unreasonable expectation  for Mr P that he was able to manage his 
accounts in this way. When HSBC changed their position and decided to handle  Mr Ps 
account in line with their internal policy, which they are entitled to do, this challenged his 
expectation. 
I think this change would have been  stressful to process after so many years. This stress 
couldve been prevented had HSBC  taken the decision to manage Mr Ps accounts within 
their internal  policy guidelines sooner. But I must also take into account  Mr P has benefited 
by being able to manage his accounts in this way for so long. 
In doing so, Mr P has been able to transfer  funds out of a high interest savings account  into 
another which no other customer  of HSBC should  be able to do. So, any award should be to 
recognise the stress Mr P experienced by the created expectation rather than the actual way 
in which  the accounts were  managed.  So, I think HSBCs actions have caused Mr P some 
level of trouble and upset.
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator  that a payment  of £100 compensates  Mr P 
fairly.
Im aware Mr P believes  any award  should include the impact caused to his wife, who is a 
joint holder of the FSA.  HSBC have confirmed that Mr Ps wife also held an RSA for two 
years but doesnt  have  an open RSA now.
Although shes a joint holder of the FSA,  her RSA was separate.  So, any impact she has 
experienced by HSBCs decision to manage the RSA in line with their internal policy  should  
be treated separately  to Mr Ps complaint in order to remain fair to HSBC.  Ive seen no 
evidence of Mr Ps wife raising  a complaint with HSBC about this issue. So, I dont  think  
HSBC should  make any additional  payment.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint. HSBC  UK Bank  Plc must pay 
Mr P £100  to recognise trouble  and upset their actions caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Joshua Haskey
Ref: DRN04611163ombudsman
Ref: DRN0461116