K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997 with a Goldfish credit card. Mr P says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
The PPI had a monthly  cost of £0.72p for every  £100 of outstanding  balance  on Mr Ps 
account. If Mr P could not work due to an accident, sickness  or unemployment  the policy 
could have paid a monthly benefit of 10% of the outstanding balance  for up to 12 months. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr P applied for the credit card and the PPI using  a postal application form. He completed 
the form and sent it back to Barclays. Ive seen a copy of the application form. I can see 
there is a section about PPI. Within the section is a brief description of the PPI cover and 
cost. There is a question,  Would you like to take out this important cover? Please tick the 
appropriate box. Beside this question  are two boxes. One is marked  Yes and the other 
No. There is a tick in the Yes box and the No box is left blank.
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand how he may not recall this after so many years.
As it was a postal application I dont think Barclays gave Mr P a personal recommendation to 
take the cover so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make  sure 
Mr P got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Ive 
next looked at Mr Ps circumstances to consider whether any clearer information would likely 
have put him off buying the policy.
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Mr P didnt have any medical  
conditions that wouldnt be covered  and his employment circumstances were  not unusual  in 
any way. So it looks like Mr P was eligible for the policy and could have  made a claim  if hed 
needed to.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable at the time of the sale.  So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI cost would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN07476362Mr P has told us his employer wouldve paid sick pay for up to six months if he became too 
unwell to work. But the PPI policy could have paid Mr P a monthly benefit for up to 12 
months. This is in addition  to any sick pay and for longer than his sick pay would last. And it 
would also have paid a monthly  benefit  if Mr P had lost his job. So, I still think  Mr P wouldve 
found the policy useful if things had gone  wrong.
I see Mr P had some savings, but the PPI would have helped him to keep his savings intact 
if he became unwell or unemployed.  I also note Mr P has told us about a separate  sickness  
policy he had in place  which  would have paid a monthly  benefit  if he became unwell. Ive 
thought about this and Mr P originally told us it would  pay out if he was unable to work  for 
over 12 months. Bearing in mind the PPI policy would only have  paid a monthly  benefit  for 
up to 12 months I dont think this separate policy means the PPI policy  duplicated his 
existing cover. 
 Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays  will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because : 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what Barclays needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mr P any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr P the difference  
between what Mr P owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays  should also pay Mr P 8%* simple  
interest if he paid off his credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr P can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But, if it has not already  done so, Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back  to Mr P any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN07476363Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0747636