K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Miss M say Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold  them  payment 
protection insurance (PPI.
background
Mr L and Miss M bought  a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2007  and again  in 
2008 to protect  their mortgage repayments. The sales took place in one of the banks 
branches. The TMPPs included PPI and gave them accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover. They  paid a monthly amount for the policy This complaint looks solely at PPI sales,  
not at the life or critical  illness cover  that they bought  at the same  time.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L and Miss M disagreed so the complaint 
was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the what  we know about 
how Halifax sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr L and Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr L and Miss M say they didnt know what PPI was until recently,  it was added without their 
knowledge. I cant know what  was said in the meetings  so Ive looked at any available 
paperwork. It isnt surprising or unreasonable Halifax hasnt got all the paperwork from the 
sales as it was so long ago. 
Based on what we know about  the banks sales process at the time, I think  its most likely 
Mr L and Miss M completed  TMPP application  forms selecting which  elements of the cover  
they wanted, after discussion with the bank. Halifax has provided samples of the documents 
it used when selling TMPP  at this time. And I cant find enough evidence to conclude that it 
didnt follow  its standard  sales  process here.  The letters it sent after both sales meetings 
started Thank you for choosing our Halifax Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) which  
suggests to me it was presented as optional in the meetings. Overall, I think  its most likely 
Halifax made it clear Mr L and Miss M had a choice  about PPI - and they opted  to take it out.
Ref: DRN04944922Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr L and Miss M so it had to make sure it was suitable. 
And overall  I think the PPI seems to have been right for them based on what Ive seen  of 
their circumstances at the time of both sales.  Mr L said he was entitled to three to six 
months sick pay in 2007, but nothing in 2008.  Given Miss Ms employer, its most likely she 
was entitled to six months  full pay and six months half pay if she was sick. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out for each  successful  accident and sickness and claim for up to 12 months.  
It also gave up to 12 months redundancy cover allowing them  to protect  any lump sum 
redundancy payment from their employers. Mr L said he had some  savings  but the PPI 
would have allowed  him to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to 
keep them intact for their future needs.  
Mr L also said he had a death-in-service  benefit  and they both had life and critical illness 
cover. But these are different kinds of insurance  and wouldnt help with monthly  mortgage  
repayments, or pay out in the same  circumstances as PPI. Given the consequences for Mr L 
and Miss M of defaulting  on debt secured against  their home,  I think the PPI would have 
been useful for them  if they were sick or lost their job(s).
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr L and Miss M all the information  they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when the costs were first made clear but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. I also dont know that Halifax pointed out the 
main things the policies didnt  cover. But they dont appear to have been affected by any of 
those things. It follows I dont think better  information wouldve changed  their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr L and Miss M have lost out because of any problems with the sale 
in 2007 or 2008. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0494492