K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Cabot Credit  Management  Group Limited considers him liable for a debt 
that he does not recognise. He wants Cabot to remove  his name from this debt, and to 
refund all payments  made in error. 
background
Cabot told us:
In March 2008, it was assigned  by the original credit card provider legal ownership of 
Mr Bs account, which he had opened in February 2002
It spoke with Mr B in June 2008  and agreed  with him a repayment arrangement, 
which continued until May 2009  when  he reduced his monthly payment
It next spoke with Mr B in August 2009  and another arrangement  was agreed,  which 
continued until May 2010 when  an increase  in monthly payments was agreed
Monthly payments  then continued,  with increases in April 2012  and October  2012,  
until Mr B told it in January 2014  that his employment contract had ended   as a 
result of which a reduced repayment arrangement was agreed
In June 2014, Mr B called it to dispute responsibility for this account, and to ask for a 
copy of the original credit card agreement
It was unable to say how it responded at the time to this contact, but it was able to 
say that Mr B continued to make the reduced  monthly payments
In June 2015, Mr B wrote again to it to dispute responsibility for this account, and to 
ask again a copy of the original agreement
It wrote to Mr B in July 2015,  saying that the agreement was not available because of 
the accounts age, but that his payments  constitute a clear  acknowledgement of 
responsibility for this account
Mr B continued to make the reduced monthly payments until November  2016
In early December 2016, Mr B wrote to it once  more  to dispute the agreement, and to 
ask once more  a copy of the original agreement
It replied to Mr B five days later, repeating the points made  in its July 2015 letter
Mr B responded in late December 2016, saying  that Cabot had not looked into this 
matter properly, and that he first asked in 2009  for a copy of the original agreement
It wrote to Mr B in January 2017, restating  its previous position   but no further 
payments were received
Cabot received letters from Mr B in March, June and September  2017,  and April 2018. It 
replied to the last of these letters in early May 2018,  saying:
When it was assigned  ownership  of Mr Bs account in March  2008, it was provided  
with the address of the account  holder
Information available to it confirmed that Mr B resided at this address, when the 
account was open and active
Ref: DRN08085422Cabot received a further letter from Mr B in late May 2018.  It sent a further reply in early  July 
2018, saying:
When it was assigned  ownership  of Mr Bs account in March  2008, it was not 
necessarily provided  with original documentation,  although  this could have been 
requested  but no request was made  at the time 
A request was not made until 2014, when  Mr B asked for this documentation  but 
the original credit  card provider was unable to provide  a copy  then, because  of the 
time that has elapsed  since  the account  opened
For all the reasons stated previously, it believed that Mr B was liable for the debt 
recorded in this account
Mr B then referred his complaint to us. He told us that Cabot  had never provided the 
evidence needed  to show that he had been  the account holder.  This was despite him asking  
Cabot many times for a copy of the original account  agreement. 
Our investigator contacted the financial services  business that owned the original credit card 
provider. She asked if it could confirm  whether  or not Mr B had opened a credit card account 
in February 2002.  The business told her that it could not locate Mr Bs account, but that it did 
not become the original card providers  owner  until September 2008.
Cabot provided  documentary evidence to us, indicating that Mr B did have an account with 
the original credit card provider.
Our investigator did not think the complaint should  be upheld. She did not think  it was 
unreasonable that a copy of the original credit card agreement was no longer available   
given the length of time since the account was opened, and since it was assigned to Cabot. 
Our investigator felt that Mr Bs actions  acknowledged  ownership of this debt, and she noted 
that he had repaid about half of the initial amount owed.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator, and promised to provide some additional information to 
us. And so this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
On the one hand, Mr B in effect argues:
He first asked in 2009 for a copy  of the original  credit card agreement
Cabot repeatedly failed to provide  this documentation  to him
Cabot had never provided  the evidence needed  to show that he had been the 
account holder
On the other hand, Cabot in effect argues:
Mr B did not ask for a copy of the original agreement until 2014
It has provided documentary evidence to us, indicating that Mr B did have an account 
with the original credit card provider
Mr Bs actions  also acknowledge ownership  of this debt
Ref: DRN08085423In addition, Cabot  implicitly  points out that Mr B did not start to dispute responsibility for this 
account until after January 2014,  when his employment contract ended. 
As he promised, Mr B provided  some additional information to us. This was from the 
business that owns the original credit card provider.  The business  told him that it was unable  
to find an account  in his name with the original provider. 
Our investigator obtained a similar response  to her request  for information from the original  
card providers owner. But she was told as well that the businesss ownership of the card 
provider did not begin until after Mr Bs account  was assigned to Cabot. And this was a 
plausible reason why the owner  would  not have that information. 
I recognise it is intuitively more difficult to show conclusively that an account did not exist 
(because it might exist, but has simply not yet been  found), than to show  that an account did 
exist (where specific evidence could  be available).  But:
On the one hand, I find the information obtained  by both Mr B and our investigator to 
be inconclusive
While, on the other hand, Cabot has provided documents that indicate  an account 
existed (albeit without definitely showing that it did exist) 
I sympathise with Mr B. But I think the weight of evidence favours  Cabot. And so, on 
balance, I find that Mr B was the holder of the original  credit card account   from which  it 
follows that he is liable for the debt recorded in the credit card account.  
This means  that I have come to the same  conclusion  as our investigator,  for similar reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0808542