K820x#14complaint
Ms Z complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  have not made adequate adjustments  for 
her disability.
background
Ms Z has a condition which sometimes means  she cant  use her voice.  
When Lloyds fraud  department  raised  security concerns about transactions  on her account  
they asked Ms Z to call them or visit a branch. Ms Z explained that the nearest branch was 
some way away and she could not call them because of her condition. She complained to 
Lloyds that they werent making reasonable adjustments for her disability.
Lloyds apologised  for the inconvenience but didnt  support Ms Zs complaint. They explained 
that there  were some adjustments theyd be able to make  such  as a relay service; power of 
attorney or the creation of a key account  party but that theyd need  Ms Zs permission before 
they could set this up. 
But Ms Z didnt think this was sufficient  so she contacted this service and our investigator 
provided his opinion. He explained that this service  werent able to tell Lloyds to change  their 
procedures or to make a decision  about whether they had been discriminatory as that was 
for the courts to decide. 
He said we could  consider whether Lloyds  had been  reasonable and, in the circumstances, 
he thought they had been. He explained that hed expect them  to take Ms Zs condition into 
account and he noted they had made reasonable adjustments to support her day to day 
banking. But he said, considering the importance  of fraud, he understood their need  to apply 
the procedures  it had. He noted  that Lloyds had attempted  to provide some adjustments  for 
Ms Z and he thought,  in the circumstances, these had been  reasonable. 
Ms Z didnt agree with the investigators view. She asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Ms Z so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I understand Ms Zs frustration here and I can comprehend how difficult this situation is for 
her. 
Ref: DRN01486292When Lloyds were  told about Ms Zs condition Id expect them  to be supportive and to make 
adjustments to their processes,  were possible, to accommodate  her. I think  Lloyds have  
made reasonable suggestions here to try to resolve  the problems Ms Z has when there are 
security concerns on her account. Ive listed some  of those options above but I can also see 
they suggested they could  move Ms Zs account  to Bank of Scotland  who are also within  the 
Lloyds group and who have a more local branch.
I understand that Lloyds have allowed the customer service team to liaise on Ms Zs behalf 
but that they have explained they cant continue with this practice. I think  thats reasonable 
and can understand that Lloyds would want a more  permanent  arrangement  in place  that 
didnt expose  their staff to potential future  allegations of breaches  of confidentiality. I think 
the suggestions theyve made are suggestions that would, reasonably,  overcome these 
issues and I therefore  dont think it would be fair to ask them to take any further  action.
I understand that Ms Z also complains  about the processing of refunds of fraudulent  
transactions but that is being covered  by this service separately  so I wont  comment on that 
complaints merits.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0148629