K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2005  on the phone. The policy 
was taken out several years after Miss B opened  her credit card account.  It gave  her 
protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Bs complaint because:
 Miss B says at no point was it made clear to her that PPI was optional. Theres  no call 
recording available but Ive looked at the sales script that was used at the time. This 
shows PPI was presented as a separate product and Miss B had the option to agree to 
add it to her account, or not. Ive found  nothing in the script that I think could 
reasonably have led her to believe  the PPI was mandatory. And shed already had her 
credit card for a number of years when  it seems she decided to add PPI. This suggests 
she would have  known it was a separate, optional product. On balance,  I think Bank of 
Scotland made it clear the PPI was optional, and Miss B chose to take it out.
 Bank of Scotland recommended  the PPI to Miss B so it had to check  if it was suitable  
for her. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. She 
was entitled to six months  full pay and six months half pay if she was sick. But the 
PPI would have paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months.  Miss B had no 
savings. Overall, I think the PPI would  have been useful for Miss B if she was sick, had 
an accident or lost her job. 
 I agree its possible the information  Bank of Scotland gave Miss B about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But Miss B chose to take out the policy and so 
appears to have  wanted this type of cover.  She wasnt affected by any of the main  
exclusions or limitations. And the policy was competitively  priced and apparently 
affordable. Overall,  I think it unlikely Miss B wouldve made a different  decision  if better  
information had been  provided.  On balance I think she would still have taken out the 
policy.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Miss B paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Miss B back  
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Bank of Scotland has already paid this to Miss B.
Ref: DRN07554462my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0755446