K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) because  its only partially 
reimbursed costs they incurred when a drain blocked at their property and they had to 
complete urgent work  to clear it.
background
At 10am on the morning of 20 December 2018, Mr and Mrs B found  a drain was blocked at 
their property. Their driveway  was covered  with foul water and they were concerned for their 
neighbour whose immune system was compromised. They contacted  a local contractor who 
arrived on site within the hour and completed  CCTV investigations and cleared the drain of 
tree roots.
Mr B called UKI. He told it hed negotiated  a repair cost of around  £3,500.  UKIs operative  
didnt comment on the cost but said the repairs would need  to be validated. It said its 
contractor would likely be out in 24 hours.  
The next day Mr B called UKIs contractor. He told it hed instructed his local company to 
complete the reinstatement  but he said the work could be inspected if required.  No 
inspection took place. Mr and Mrs B sent their invoice for £3,600 to UKI and it said the most 
it would  pay would be £1,900, less the policy excess of £250, but plus £200  compensation.
UKI said it would  pay £200  compensation because it should have told Mr and Mrs B that it 
might not pay all their costs for having work done.  It said the £1,900  was what  its contractor 
would have charged Mr and Mrs B for the work,  UKI wasnt applying  any deductions for what 
it might  have been charged  for the work  to be done.
Our investigator felt that UKI had failed Mr and Mrs B, that it had effectively removed their 
chance to make an informed decision.  She said she couldnt be sure but if UKI had been  
more explicit with them, she felt something different would probably have occurred. She 
explained that because she couldnt  be sure what,  or in what  way, she couldnt  reasonably  
require UKI to reimburse Mr and Mrs B for their entire outlay. But she thought  it should  pay 
an additional  £650 being half of the difference outstanding, less the £200 it had already paid 
as compensation.
Mr and Mrs B felt it was unfair  that their full outlay wasnt  going to be reimbursed. UKI said 
whether it told Mr and Mrs B or not, the way it settles claims is set out in its policy book and 
so Mr and Mrs B could have made themselves  aware. UKI also felt it hadnt been  given  any 
opportunity to do anything because work was already underway and completed within 24 to 
48 hours. 
As the parties were both dissatisfied with our findings, the complaint was passed  to me for a 
decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im minded to think  our 
investigators suggested outcome is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. As such, 
Im not going  to suggest UKI do anything different to that set out in our investigators  view. 
Ref: DRN04089862This was clearly an emergency  situation and Im mindful that Mr and Mrs B clearly  (and not 
necessarily unreasonably)  wanted this sorting quickly.  I can understand that with someone 
local already working and able to get things sorted  within  a matter of days, stopping  that to 
wait for UKIs contractor to come out, even if that happened within  24 hours, and then 
waiting for it to mobilise and complete repairs, or authorise further work, was not an 
attractive option. Especially only a few days before Christmas. 
But, whilst a delay might not have been attractive, if that possibility had been set in the light 
of the very realistic  and likely outcome  of Mr and Mrs B we probably wont  pay your 
contractors costs of £3,500 for this work  we might pay about half, that might have 
changed things.  Being warned of a likely shortfall  of at least £1,500  would stop most people  
short. Of course that doesnt mean  that Mr and Mrs B would have stopped  all work and 
waited. But theyd have  had the chance to weigh their options and make a fully informed 
decision. They might,  at the least, have negotiated  further with their contractor. Or if theyd 
gone ahead  theyd have understood what they were risking. 
In light of all that, it isnt fair, in my view,  for Mr and Mrs B to be left with the entirety of their 
bill, over and above  the amount UKIs contractor would have charged  which  UKI has based 
its settlement on. But I have to balance that with the fact that it does usually take an insurer  
time to mobilise and act and it should  usually be given the opportunity  to do so. And as I said 
above, I cant say that, but for UKIs failure,  Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have had any cost for 
repair above the settlement UKI has paid.  
Therefore, I think that requiring UKI to cover  50% of the shortfall in settlement creates a fair 
and reasonable outcome in all of the circumstances. It balances  things where  Im satisfied 
UKI failed  Mr and Mrs B, but I cant be entirely satisfied exactly to what extent that failure  
caused the loss theyve  suffered  the £1,700 shortfall between their invoice  amount of 
£3,600 and UKIs settlement sum of £1,900 (before the excess  was deducted and the £200 
compensation was added on). Dividing £1,700 by two gives  a figure of £850,  and UKI has 
already paid £200 towards this by virtue of the compensation it paid, that leaves £650 for 
UKI to now pay Mr and Mrs B. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs B a further  £650  
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0408986