K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP, trading as Uncle  Buck, (UBF), gave him
loans that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr R took out four loans with UBF and details  of these are shown below. All the loans were
repayable by three monthly instalments, and all loans have been  repaid.
Loan number
Date Loan amount
Number of repayments 
and repayment  amountRepayment date
1. 15/7/2015 £200 3 monthly payments of 
around £91.5731/7/2015
2. 9/11/2015 £1,000 3 monthly payments of
£466.7030/11/2015
3. 29/1/2016 £700 3 monthly payments of
£356.3129/2/2016
4. 25/8/2016 £700 2 monthly payments of
£368.46 and one 
monthly payment  of
£359.5030/9/2016
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Rs complaint.  Mr R disagreed. He said that he had a
number of loans  during  the period of UBFs loans which would have been clearly visible on
his credit report. He was taking out multiple  loans to pay off his other loans. He said that
although there was a gap between Loans 3 and 4, he had taken out other loans from other
lenders during this period.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to UBF on 21 May 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that UBF needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate  checks to make  sure 
Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Rs income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But I said that certain factors might point  to the fact that UBF should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr R. These  factors 
included:
-the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
       any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
-the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
       meet a higher repayment from a particular  level of income);
Ref: DRN04094462-the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
       during which a customer  has been  given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated
       refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
       unsustainable).
I explained that there might even come a point where the lending  history and pattern of 
lending itself clearly  demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought that it was important for me to start by saying that UBF was required to establish
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments, while meeting other  reasonable  commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all meant for Mr Rs complaint.
Id noted that UBF had carried out a credit  check before each loan was granted  and UBF 
had provided us with copies  of its credit checks before each loan.
The credit checks showed that Mr R was taking and repaying a significant number of other
short term loans whilst  he was borrowing from UBF. And from that I thought UBF should 
have concluded  that Mr R was facing major problems managing his money. In these
circumstances, I thought UBF ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr R wouldve been able 
to sustainably repay Loans 1 to 4.
So subject to any further representations by Mr R or UBF my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order Uncle  Buck Finance LLP, trading  as 
Uncle Buck,  to:-
1. Refund all interest and charges Mr R paid on Loans 1 to 4;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the
    date  they were paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement; and
3. Remove any negative information  about  Loans 1 to 4 from Mr Rs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Mr R responded to my provisional decision to say that he had no further information to 
provide.
UBF didnt provide a response to my provisional decision.
 
Ref: DRN04094463my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mr R and UBF have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  the 
complaint and require UBF to pay Mr R some  compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Uncle Buck Finance  LLP, trading as Uncle Buck, to:-
1. Refund all interest and charges Mr R paid on Loans 1 to 4;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the
    date  they were paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement; and
3. Remove any negative information  about  Loans 1 to 4 from Mr Rs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0409446