K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Standard Life Savings Limited didnt provide him with information about 
his Excess Reportable Income (ERI) in his Consolidated Tax Certificate (CTC).
background
Mr C invests in an offshore reportable fund through his Standard Life WRAP account.  
Standard Life sent him a yearly CTC but this didnt include the ERI information for this fund. 
Mr C complained to Standard Life. He said the terms of the account require them  to provide 
such information. And as a result of them not doing  so, itd led to him incurring additional 
accountancy fees and a tax charge from HMRC.
Standard Life didnt uphold his complaint. They said that, unlike other  funds Mr C had 
invested in, they dont  receive any details of the offshore reportable fund in which they can 
provide. They explained this was in line with the offshore regulations that say the fund 
managers only have  to provide ERI information  on their website. And that they provided  
Mr C with the information they were required to in the CTC.
The matter  was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but she didnt 
think Standard  Life was required to provide the ERI information. She explained The Offshore 
Funds (Tax) Regulations 2009 says income  derived from investments held in offshore funds 
is calculated by the fund manager.  And that there  isnt a requirement for this to be reported 
to Standard Life but it is made available on the funds  managers  website.  
She acknowledged Mr Cs point about Standard Lifes requirement to provide him with 
information under the account  terms. But she felt theyd  fulfilled their obligations as the CTC 
gave information  in respect of Mr Cs other  holdings as well as making it clear the ERI 
information wasnt included along  with where  it could be found. 
As Mr C disagreed with our investigator  the matter has been passed to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has explained that his complaint isnt about the offshore  funds  regulation, but rather; it 
is about the obligations Standard Life has in providing him with information under the terms 
of the account.  I therefore dont intend  to comment on the regulation  any further.
The terms of the account say:
services means the services  available to you and your financial  
adviser/discretionary investment manager. These services will include, but not be 
limited to, the following

(d) access to information  and literature relating to your wrap products and your 
wrap account generally
Ref: DRN09376832Having carefully considered this term I think its important to note that it says generally.  So 
while I think its understandable for Mr C to expect Standard Life to provide  him with 
information wherever  possible, I think its reasonable to take this to mean  that there could be 
exceptions. So Standard  Life might  not be able to provide information  Mr C would like, or 
request, on all occasions.
Standard Life has said they dont receive  ERI information from funds managers and so 
theyre not able to include this information  in the CTCs. I understand Mr C disputes this and 
says the fund manager did send  the ERI information to them. But while Ive taken what Mr C 
has said in to account, I havent  seen  anything to show Standard Life received this 
information as he alleges. I therefore  dont think I can fairly conclude  even  putting  the 
matter of the aforementioned regulation aside - theyve acted wrongly by not including  it in 
the CTC. I also think the CTC made  it clear  to Mr C that they dont  receive ERI information  
from the fund managers  but he could source  it directly from them. 
I appreciate Mr C has to report his ERI to HMRC and that as a result of this information not 
being included  in the CTC it means  he has to obtain it himself. But for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont  think Standard Life has acted  unfairly, or outside the terms of the account, 
by not providing  it in the CTC.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 December  2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0937683