K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that his insurance  policy was cancelled because BISL Limited failed to 
ask him for certain information  when it sold him the policy.
background
Mr L obtained a home  insurance quote  online through a price  comparison website.  The 
website referred him to BISL. He rang BISL  to accept the quote and pay the premium.
A few months later Mr L made  a claim on the policy. He told his insurer  about an unspent 
criminal conviction. BISL told him it was cancelling his policy on behalf of the insurer  from 
the start date because  the insurer wouldnt have offered  cover  if it had been aware of this 
information at the outset.
Mr L said he didnt remember having  been asked about any criminal convictions previously. 
BISL said Mr L had been asked about  this during the online quotation process.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold  it, He thought it had 
been a genuine mistake  on Mr Ls part and he didnt think he could hold BISL responsible  for 
that.
As Mr L didnt agree,  the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr L has complained  separately about the action of his insurer.  In this 
decision Im only looking at how he was treated  by BISL.
The issue  to be decided  in this case is whether BISL  took reasonable care when arranging  
an insurance policy for Mr L. 
The first step in the process of Mr L taking  out his policy was for him to answer various  
questions about  himself and his property  on a comparison website. One of those questions 
was:
Have  you got any unspent non-motoring  related criminal convictions?
BISL has provided us with a print out from the comparison  websites  system  showing  the 
information  it held about  Mr L. It shows  that Mr L answered  No to the above  question.
Ive listened to a recording  of the phone call Mr L made to BISL to accept the quote that the 
comparison website had generated. During  this call Mr L wasnt asked  whether he had any 
previous convictions.  Thats  because the purpose of the call was to discuss the quotation 
rather than go through  all Mr Ls information again. At the start of the call BISLs 
representative had difficulty finding  Mr Ls quote  on its system. I dont think that necessarily 
shows that BISLs system  was flawed.
Ref: DRN01130632There was a further opportunity for Mr L to correct his mistake. After  Mr L took out the policy  
by phone, BISL sent him his policy documents and asked him to check that the details were  
correct. It warned him:
Failure  to disclose correct and complete information to the best of your knowledge and 
belief may result in increased premiums, refusal of a claim or not being fully paid, your policy  
being cancelled  or being made null & void and treated as if it never existed.
The information he was asked to check included the following statement:
no member  of the household has been  convicted of any crime.
For whatever reason  Mr L didnt contact BISL  to correct this information. I appreciate that 
this was a genuine mistake  on Mr Ls part and he readily disclosed the conviction to the 
insurer when making the claim. But unfortunately for him I dont think  BISL can be held 
responsible for the insurer not being told this when the policy  was first taken out. So I dont 
think BISL has treated  Mr L unfairly  or unreasonably.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0113063