K822xcomplaint
Mr P is unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt record his correct  residential address on his 
bank account  which then wasnt reflected correctly on his credit  file.
background 
In October  2018 Mr P spoke to Santander to get a replacement credit card, during the call he 
also wanted to have two addresses  linked to his accounts; one a residential address the 
other one a correspondence  address.
Mr P says on checking his credit  file in November he noticed his residential  address wasnt  
linked to his Santander bank accounts  and he says this has had a negative  impact on his 
credit rating and prevented him applying for a mortgage. Mr P develops property so he 
intended to have drawn funds from the mortgage  until he sold the property. By not being 
able to do this, he considers  this to be a loss of earnings.
Santander said an error occurred when the accounts were incorrectly  linked to his 
correspondence address. Santander put a request through to the credit reference agencies  
to amend the information and offered Mr P £250  compensation.  
Our investigator initially felt Santanders offer was fair but Mr P provided further information 
regarding the impact this error was having  on him. This showed his credit  file was still not 
showing the correct  information. And that no addresses were linked to his Santander  
accounts and his credit score had reduced  further. 
Our investigator contacted a credit  reference agency  and it confirmed it amended Mr Ps file 
on the 18 December  but it confirmed that having  no addresses linked to the bank accounts 
had decreased Mr Ps credit score. It also said that if Santander had responded to its dispute 
questions it couldve rectified Mr Ps file sooner. Our investigator felt that the impact of this 
warranted an increase in the compensation offered and asked Santander to increase its offer 
by another £200 totalling £450 compensation.
Santander agreed but Mr P didnt. He feels he would  accept £600 although this still wouldnt 
cover his loss of earnings. So the case has been passed  to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute  that Mr Ps address was set up incorrectly on his 
accounts and that this appears to have  had an adverse effect on his credit rating. So what  I 
need to consider is whether Santander  handled  this matter appropriately and whether I think  
the offer of compensation made  is reasonable in Mr Ps circumstances.
From what  Ive seen, Mr Ps credit  file doesnt  appear to have been updated with the correct 
information until 18 December 2018.  If the error  hadnt been made in the first place  then the 
correct information  wouldve  been showing on his credit file in November and Mr P couldve 
progressed with his mortgage application. 
Ref: DRN06835202Once Santander was made aware  of the error, I can see it rectified  Mr Ps accounts and told 
him it would take up to 30 days  for his credit  file to reflect the update.  Santander said it 
would see if it could  prioritise the request as Mr P had been told by a credit  reference agency 
it could be done  sooner.  It offered  Mr P £250 compensation. Mr P was unhappy as he 
needed his credit file rectified as a priority.  
Mr Ps mortgage adviser has confirmed  that theyve been looking to arrange  a new mortgage 
for Mr P since the beginning of November, but due to Mr Ps credit  score,  it was unlikely that 
an application would be approved. So they hadnt applied because  if the mortgage  was 
declined it could have  a further  negative  impact on Mr Ps credit  score.  
Mr P has said he wouldve drawn funds from the mortgage and therefore by not having  the 
mortgage in place, this was a loss of earnings.  Ive considered what Mr P has said but I dont 
consider this to be a loss of earnings.  Mr P would still not be able to access  these funds until 
a mortgage was approved and the funds released.  And at that time no mortgage had been 
applied for. 
But I do understand that Mr P needed  his credit file to be accurate to proceed with a 
mortgage application, and Santanders  error  wasnt allowing him to do so. I can see this was 
causing him distress  and inconvenience for an error  that was no fault of his own.  
I do think Santander couldve helped Mr P more in getting his credit  file updated by 
responding to the credit  agencies dispute questions. If Santander  had done  this it wouldve 
allowed it to make the amendments, which couldve resulted in Mr Ps credit file being 
rectified sooner.  I think this has caused  Mr P distress  and inconvenience.  But I dont think 
the £600 Mr P has said he feels would be fair, is a reasonable amount. I say this because I 
cant say for sure the mortgage  wouldve been  accepted even if the credit file was correct 
and overall I feel an increase of £200,  in total £450  compensation,  is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons set out above. I instruct Santander UK Plc to pay an 
additional £200 compensation to the £250  it has already offered in total £450 for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2019.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0683520