K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold  his payment protection  
insurance (PPI) when he took out a personal  loan in May 1999.
background
Mr C applied for a personal loan in May 1999  and bought a single- premium  PPI policy  at the 
same time. Mr C says he didnt need the policy; it wasnt optional and he says HSBC  didnt 
give him any information about the PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint.  Mr C doesnt  agree, so the case  has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
was Mr C given a choice  about PPI?
Unfortunately theres limited documentation from the time of the sale,  and I have seen no 
records of the discussion  that took place between the HSBC  representative  and Mr C. But I 
am mindful  of the fact the sale took place  nearly 20 years ago and it is perhaps inevitable the 
passage of time will make exact recall  of what took place more difficult. In circumstances like 
these, where there is no documentary evidence, I need to weigh up what,  in my mind, is 
more likely to have  happened.
HSBC says that its policies were  always optional and never  a condition of the granting of the 
loan. And based  on what  I know about  HSBCs  sales  practices at this time, I understand a 
customer wouldve needed  to sign separately  to take out the PPI in my opinion it was 
optional. So with the limited information  available I think  HSBC presented PPI as an optional 
product, and Mr C chose to take it out, even  if he cant now recall doing so.
did HSBC recommend the policy  to Mr C? And if so was it suitable?
HSBC recommended the policy to Mr C so it had to make sure the policy was suitable for 
him. I havent seen  any evidence  that HSBC actually assessed  Mr Cs needs at the time. 
However, looking at what  I know about  his circumstances from the time of sale,  I think the 
policy was suitable  for him. I say this because:
Mr C was eligible for the policy and he wasnt affected by any of the policys  
exclusions, for example those relation to existing medical  conditions  or self-
employment. This is because he told us he was in good  health and he was in 
permanent employment.
Mr C says he cant recall if he was entitled  to any sick pay but this PPI policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to any employment  benefits he may have  had. And if 
Mr C was too sick to work,  the policy wouldve potentially covered him for up to the 
Ref: DRN04435352full 4 years  of his loan.  If he lost his job the policy wouldve covered his loan 
repayments for up to 12 months per claim.
Mr C says although he had no savings, he couldve relied on his family for help. 
Whilst I understand the point  he seeks to make, there could be no guarantee that his 
family wouldve  been in a position  to help out at some unknown  point in the future.
So on balance I think the policy  offered  additional benefits to Mr C.
I noticed that Mr C wouldve only received  a limited refund of the PPI premium  if he 
cancelled the policy early. However,  I havent seen any information  that suggests  Mr C 
needed the flexibility to cancel the policy early at the time of sale in 1999.  Also,  Ive seen no 
indications that the policy wasnt affordable for Mr C.
For these reasons I think the policy was suitable  for him.
did HSBC meet Mr Cs information  needs??
HSBC couldnt  provide  Mr Cs loan agreement. So I dont know  how the cost was presented  
to him. From  what we know about HSBCs practices at the time, the loan agreement usually 
showed the cost of the PPI premium  that was added  to the loan. It also showed the total cost 
of the policy  over the term of the loan and the interest charged on it. So many  years after the 
sale and with the limited  information available, I cant fairly say that the costs werent made 
clear to Mr C.
I dont know how the policys other  main  features  wouldve  been  presented  to Mr C. 
However, I dont think this wouldve made a difference to Mr Cs decision to buy PPI. As I 
explained above, I think the policy was suitable  for him. 
For these reasons I think if Mr C had been given better information he still wouldve bought  
the policy. So he hasnt  lost out as a result of what  HSBC  mightve  done  wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint for the reasons Ive explained above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0443535