K821x#15complaint
Mrs M has complained about action  taken by The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc after she 
transferred funds to her mortgage account, in error.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 20 February 2019. A copy  of this is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In my provisional decision  I invited both parties to let me have any further 
comments and evidence.
Mrs M and RBS both accepted my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties accepted  my provisional 
decision I dont intend to depart from it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  my final decision is I uphold this complaint. 
I require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mrs M £200. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09743772Copy of provisional  decision
background
Mrs M has a mortgage and a current account with RBS. She also has an account with a foreign bank 
that Ill call F. In July 2018 she wanted to transfer 5,500 euros  from F to her RBS current account. 
Unfortunately she gave  F her mortgage account number by mistake.
Mrs M realised shed made a mistake and asked RBS to transfer the money to her current account. 
Initially, RBS said it would do this but it then told Mrs M it would have to return  the money to the bank 
that had made the payment.
In September 2018 Mrs M contacted this service because the money hadnt been paid back  into her 
account with F. The money wasnt credited to the F account until October  2018. Mrs M said she 
thought she should be compensated for the stress and financial impact caused by the delay  and 
uncertainty about what had happened to her money.
RBS responded to Mrs M saying it had returned the funds to the bank from which  it received the 
payment and it didnt uphold her complaint.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He didnt believe the delay in the 
funds reaching Mrs Ms account with F was the result of an error  by RBS.
Mrs M didnt accept our investigators recommendation.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
This issue arose as a result  of a mistake made by Mrs M. But that doesnt mean  that RBS cant  be 
held responsible for any of the trouble  and upset  and any other losses that Mrs M has suffered. I need 
to look at what RBS did when it was made aware of the error and whether it did everything  it 
reasonably could to rectify it.
The matter was complicated  by the fact that the transfer of funds  didnt take place  directly between  F 
and RBS. F used a third bank Ill call D to convert the money from euros to sterling and make  the 
transfer to RBS. So when RBS returned the funds they went to D rather  than to F.
It seems to me that the simplest way to have resolved this matter would have been  for RBS to 
transfer the funds from Mrs Ms mortgage account  to her current account in accordance  with her 
request. Ive asked RBS to explain why it couldnt do this and to refer me to any regulation or other 
provision that prevented it from making  the transfer.  RBS replied saying it must be for AML [anti 
money laundering]/audit purposes. Im not satisfied with this response. I think, if RBS was prevented 
from making the transfer, it should be able to refer me to a specific AML/audit provision that did this.
Ive also seen  the information RBS says it received  from D when the money  was transferred to it and 
the information it gave D when it sent it back.  The information RBS was given  by D includes Mrs Ms 
name, postcode and mortgage account number. But the information RBS gave D when it returned the 
money doesnt seem  to contain any information that would have enabled D to identify the account to 
which the money  should  be returned. Ive asked RBS to explain how D would have known it needed  
to return  the money to Mrs Ms account with F but it hasnt provided any explanation.
In all the circumstances, Im not currently persuaded that RBS did everything it could to help Mrs M 
after she told it shed  made an error. I think this caused Mrs M unnecessary trouble and upset as she 
Ref: DRN09743773didnt know the whereabouts of her money  for nearly  three months. I currently think  RBS should  pay 
Mrs M £200 compensation for this. Mrs M has also referred to financial impact but I havent seen  
any information  about  this. If Mrs M thinks shes suffered financial loss as a result of the delay in 
having the money returned  to her she should let me have full details. Ill then consider if I ought  
reasonably to require RBS to compensate her for her loss.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given and subject to any additional comments  and evidence I get from the parties 
my provisional  decision  is I would uphold this complaint. I would require  The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc to pay Mrs M £200.
Ref: DRN0974377