K820x#14complaint
Mr R has said Grampian Credit Union  Limited (GCU) mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I was not intending to uphold  
Mr Rs complaint. I asked everyone to send me any further  comments  and information 
before I reached a final decision.
Neither Mr R or GCU have provided  anything further for me to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr R has said Grampian Credit Union Limited  (GCU) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about  a monthly premium PPI policy  taken  out with a loan in 2005 and then with 
another loan in 2009.
Ref: DRN06511282Our adjudicator said the complaint about the 2005 policy should be upheld but GCU  
disagreed. Our adjudicator  also said the complaint about the 2009 policy should  not be 
upheld but Mr R disagreed. Now the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr Rs case.
Im currently  not intending  to uphold  Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
2005 sale
Our adjudicator upheld this sale because there wasnt enough evidence to suggest  that Mr R was 
given the opportunity during  the sale to actively confirm that he wanted to take the policy out.
Although I appreciate what the adjudicator has said, I dont  agree.
GCU has said it would have presented both policies as optional to Mr R and he would have 
needed to agree to take them out. GCU has also said that as a Credit  Union it is there to serve  the 
needs of its members  and is not a profit  making organisation.
I have considered both sides  submissions  on this point carefully.  Unlike other financial 
organisations that operate for a profit, there doesnt seem to be much benefit to GCU to include PPI 
automatically, without giving  consumers  the chance to say no to the cover.  While I accept its 
possible Mr R wasnt given a choice, I think its more likely he did opt to take out PPI.
GCU recommended  the PPI to Mr R so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems  to have had a need for the 
cover. At the time of the 2005 sale, Mr R was self-employed. But I dont think it wouldve been any 
more difficult for Mr R to make an unemployment  claim than someone who was employed. The 
policy provided accident  and sickness cover for up to 24 months per claim and unemployment cover 
for 12 months  per claim. So I think the PPI would have been useful for him.
Its possible the information  GCU  gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But 
he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would  have 
been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have  put him off taking  out the cover.
2009 sale
GCU have  provided  a copy of the loan agreement completed  at the time. I can see there is an 
option to say yes  or no to PPI. PPI had been selected and printed before it was signed  by Mr 
R. I think  its likely the PPI was selected  as a result of a conversation between  Mr R and GCU. As 
Mr R was agreeing to additional credit, I would have expected him to have read the document and 
raised any questions he had at the time before signing in agreement with it. So I think GCU made  
it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out.
GCU recommended  the PPI to Mr R so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and based 
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need 
for the cover.
Ref: DRN06511283At the time of this sale, Mr R was employed. Mr R hasnt told us if he would have received any sick 
pay but nonetheless, the PPI would have paid in addition  to any sick pay he may have received. 
The policy provided  accident  and sickness cover  for up to 24 months per claim and unemployment 
cover for 12 months per claim. So I think the PPI would have been useful for him. And I can see it 
was as GCU has told us Mr R made a successful unemployment claim in 2010.
Its possible the information  GCU  gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But 
he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would  have 
been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have  him off taking out the cover.
Ive also thought  about  the commission Mr R paid on his policies  and whether  GCU  treated him 
unfairly.
GCU has told us that the commission for Mr Rs policies was less than half of what  he paid for each 
premium. Weve looked at how GCU has been working this out and based on what  weve seen it 
looks like its right  Mr Rs commission was less than half the cost of the policies. As thats the 
case, I dont  think  it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont think GCU treated him 
unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr R back any of the commission  he paid for the PPI.
Ref: DRN0651128