K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with his health insurance  provided by CIGNA Life Insurance Company of 
Europe SA-NV  and the associated customer service.
background
In October  2002, Mr H took out a health insurance  policy with CIGNA. This was, in effect, a 
continuation of the insurance that was provided by his former employer. The benefit of this 
type of policy is that it covered any medical  conditions for which hed had treatment  under  
the previous policy,  whereas a completely new policy would most likely exclude these 
conditions. 
Mr H paid a monthly amount for the policy, which started at £118.90  per month,  and covered 
him and his two children. By March 2016  the cost was £916.24 per month. At that stage, 
Mr H amended the policy, so it only covered him. This reduced the premium to £611.66 per 
month. 
By March 2018 the premium was £726.10 per month. Mr H then spoke  to an independent 
insurance broker, who found a health insurance  policy for him for about  £220 per month. 
Mr H says this policy  provided international cover, which the CIGNA policy didnt. 
Mr H then complained  that hed been overcharged for his CIGNA  policy.  He was also 
unhappy that, despite speaking to CIGNA on a number  of occasions about adding  
international cover and the price increases, he didnt find CIGNA to be helpful.  
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed, so Ive been 
asked to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how it should price risk and what  an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, telling a business how it should  operate   and thats 
not my role. But I can look at whether CIGNA has treated Mr H fairly throughout the period 
he held his CIGNA insurance policy. In this case, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
Ive found that Mr H did engage  with CIGNA  about his policy over the years. Below  is a 
summary of Mr Hs contact with CIGNA:
In 2002, Mr H was initially quoted  for insurance just for himself, but he chose to add his 
children to the policy, which increased the cost. 
In 2004, Mr H called CIGNA to ask about  overseas  cover. He was told the policy  only 
provided cover for emergency treatment overseas for a limited number of days  per year. 
He was told that CIGNA could quote  for international cover, but that this would be a new 
policy which would require underwriting. Mr H did not request a quote. 
Ref: DRN07715142In 2005, Mr H called CIGNA to enquire about cover  limits for emergency  treatment 
overseas and was told he was covered  for emergency treatment up the limits applicable 
in the UK. 
In 2009, Mr H called CIGNA and discussed  what was covered. It appears  he was 
considering cancelling the policy, as he told CIGNA he would email  if he wanted to 
cancel it. But he did not do so, and the policy continued.
In 2015, Mr H called CIGNA to ask what the premium was and to get a breakdown of the 
costs since the policy  started. He asked how the premiums were calculated  and how age 
affected this. Mr H was told that CIGNA couldnt  advise of what changes to the premiums 
would happen  in future. Mr H confirmed he was happy to continue with the policy  and 
was okay with the costs.  CIGNA  emailed Mr H to provide  the information hed requested. 
In 2016, Mr H contacted CIGNA to enquire  about the premium. He was advised of an 
upcoming increase  due to changes to insurance  premium tax. He again asked what 
international cover he had through the policy because he was considering  moving 
overseas. CIGNA  explained the cover  provided  and that, if he moved overseas, he would 
no longer be eligible  for cover under  the policy. He was told that CIGNA could offer an 
international policy, but that hed need to speak to the relevant  department  to discuss  his 
options. He requested  a breakdown of his premiums for him and his children, which was 
provided to him by email. After this Mr H amended the policy so it just covered  him, 
which reduced the monthly premium. 
Given the level of Mr Hs engagement with the policy,  I dont think  it was the case  that he 
was unaware of what he was being  charged or that the price was increasing. And I dont 
think this is a case where an insurer was simply raising the premium  cost over time as the 
customer didnt question  the price.
CIGNA has provided information about  how it set the price for Mr Hs policy. In simple terms, 
the main factors were the claims  history of all the customers  CIGNA covered under this 
continuation policy,  CIGNAs assessment of the cost of expected  future claims, CIGNAs 
costs such as overheads,  Mr Hs age (and the age of his children when they were covered 
by the policy) and changes  in insurance  premium  tax. Im satisfied that CIGNA  reviewed this 
twice a year and adjusted the price of Mr Hs policy based on these factors.
The way Mr Hs policy worked meant it wasnt underwritten in the way an individual policy  
would have been. Mr H took out a continuation policy as he had previously been insured 
under a group scheme taken out by an old employer. When he joined the earlier  scheme, he 
was accepted as a beneficiary without having his circumstances and medical history being  
personally underwritten.  And this was the same  way he was insured  after 2002, so he was 
offered insurance  without  any past medical history being taken into account and without any 
restriction on him claiming for conditions hed suffered from before.  Ive seen that CIGNA 
told Mr H his policy wasnt individually underwritten when it first offered him this policy.
The cost of the policy was much  higher  than the price Mr H obtained insurance for 
elsewhere. I fully understand Mr Hs view that this means he was being treated unfairly. But 
insurers often include discounts  in order to obtain new customers.  That means that a new 
customer will often  be paying less than the true cost of providing the insurance policy.  And 
insurance policies  are not all the same  they have different  levels of cover, excesses and 
terms and conditions that can affect  the price charged. 
Ref: DRN07715143Each insurers costs may vary depending on many  things, including the make-up of the 
customers they are insuring, and their assessment of the risks involved  this makes it very 
difficult to compare two different  policies. So, just because the policy with CIGNA cost a lot 
more than Mr Hs new policy  that doesnt  mean the amount charged was unfair. Ive 
considered how CIGNA  set the price  of Mr Hs policy, and I dont think  that CIGNA treated 
him unfairly.  
In terms of Mr Hs expectations that CIGNA shouldve told him his policy  was expensive  or 
offered him alternative cover, Im not persuaded that CIGNA was obliged to do so. It doesnt  
appear that CIGNA  provided advice when  selling the policy  in 2002. Rather it provided a 
quote for Mr H to, in effect, continue the existing cover he had through  his previous 
employment. 
So, it didnt have to look at Mr Hs individual circumstances or check  that the policy  was 
suitable for him. Nor did it have to ensure Mr H got the best or cheapest  deal available  
either in terms of policies  it could  offer,  or in the wider insurance  market. It simply had to 
provide clear  information about the policy it was offering to him. And I think when Mr H did 
ask CIGNA about his policy,  he was given information about what  he was covered for and 
the cost. 
When Mr H enquired about international cover, CIGNA did offer to provide a quote, but Mr H 
didnt go ahead with this. Overall, I dont think CIGNA  acted in an unreasonable  way. Mr H 
was free to shop  around or seek advice from an independent insurance broker at any point  
as he did in 2018. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0771514