K821x#15Complaint
Miss T has complained that Barclays Bank Plc wont refund transactions on her account,
which she says she didnt  make.
Background
Miss T said she didnt receive  a replacement debit card.  She subsequently found  out that the 
replacement card had been used multiple  times for purchases totalling £2,758.42.
After reviewing this complaint, I issued a provisional decision, setting out the events leading 
up to this complaint  and how I thought  best to resolve it. I decided  to uphold Miss Ts 
complaint and I recommended that Barclays refund the disputed transactions. Ive attached  
a copy of my provisional decision. It forms part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
Response to my provisional decision
Miss T accepted my provisional  decision.
Barclays didnt agree with my conclusions. It replied as follows:
theres no evidence  of how a third party  got hold of the PIN.
The PIN was a random 4-digit PIN. It wasnt  chosen by Miss T and so it wouldnt 
have been guessable.
Some of the disputed transactions were payments to merchants whom Miss T used 
for genuine transactions, namely  Transport for London and KFC.
The pattern of disputed transactions matches  that of genuine  transactions  with 
payments for meals out followed  by grocery  transactions. This represents the normal 
usage of the account.
If Miss T did not have  access  to a debit card, then how did she continue to buy the 
essentials or travel around London? There is no evidence  of funds being withdrawn 
from the account in branch to support her day-to-day life.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including Barclays  observations  on my 
provisional decision.
Having done so, my decision  remains the same. However, I will respond to Barclays 
observations. 
I understand Barclays concern about the PIN and I have given it serious consideration. 
However, despite Barclays saying it didnt issue a new PIN, I think  the situation is far from 
clear.
Ive now seen the letter Barclays sent to Miss T, dated 31 October 2018. In that letter, 
Barclays says:
Ref: DRN02119792You have  stated in your disclaimer  you did not receive the card and the 
personal identification number (PIN).  The card and PIN were despatched on 
different dates using  different delivery  routes,  meaning the only place they 
could have come together would be your property,  the address on our 
records
Barclays told us it didnt  issue a new PIN and its record  prove this. This letter  says 
differently. Ive considered whether this was a template letter, with standard paragraphs,  but 
Ive decided it couldnt be: this is a letter which has been sent out after a review and its 
specific to Miss Ts complaint. I cant imagine why Barclays would use standard paragraphs 
in its reasoning, especially where  the PIN evidence is crucial.
I dont think its certain  a new PIN wasnt issued. Ive also noted  that in Miss Ts telephone  
call with Barclays, the adviser says she can see that the third party  was swiping and signing 
instead (meaning no PIN was needed). I thought, on balance,  a PIN must have been used, 
at least for some  transactions. Again, the evidence surrounding the PIN use is unclear and, 
therefore, unreliable.
Barclays also said Miss T used the same  merchants for the disputed transactions and 
genuine ones:  Transport for London  and KFC. I have to say this is hardly evidence of 
similarity, both being commonly  used merchants by a large percentage of the population and 
especially students. And I note there was only one payment  to KFC amongst the disputed 
transactions.
Again, the so-called  transaction pattern of meals followed by grocery shopping is far from 
unusual. Besides, none of the merchants  used for the disputed transactions  appear  amongst 
the list of genuine transactions in the October to November 2018  statements (save for 
Transport for London  and KFC). And the statements dont show  in what  order  the genuine 
transactions occurred.
Miss T also told us that the average  daily spend  on disputed transactions was around £240  
daily, whereas the average daily spend  by her on genuine transactions  in October and 
November 2018  was around £26 daily. Looking at the statements, I can see the genuine 
spend is modest.
So I dont  consider this a similar pattern at all. In fact, the pattern is very different.
Lastly, Miss T told us she used another bank account when she didnt have  the Barclays  
debit card. She sent us a copy of the statement  for that account early  into our investigations.  
It shows she was using  this other  account  during September 2018. The transactions are 
similar to the genuine transactions on her Barclays account for October and November  
2018.
Based on the evidence,  I dont consider that Miss T received the replacement card or that 
she authorised the disputed  transactions.  I think its fair and reasonable for Barclays to 
refund the disputed  transactions.
My final decision
My finale decision is that I am upholding this complaint.
I am asking  Barclays Bank  PLC to:
Ref: DRN02119793refund  the disputed  transactions  totalling £2,758.42
pay 8% interest on this amount from the time the transactions  left the account until 
they are refunded
pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience experienced by Miss T for the loss of 
her money and the time taken  to recover it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02119794Copy of Provisional Decision
Complaint
Miss T has complained  that Barclays Bank Plc wont refund transactions on her account,  which 
she says she didnt make.
Background
Miss T was a university student until June 2018. She returned to her home, outside the UK, at the 
end of the academic year. She came back to the UK on 29 August 2018, where  she began further 
studies.
She said her debit card stopped working  when she returned to the UK so she called the
bank. She discovered  that Barclays had sent her a replacement card on 10 August but it had posted  
it to her previous address. Barclays ordered her a new card. The second replacement card was 
despatched on 10 September to her new address.
Miss T heard nothing further.
On 28 September, Miss T received  a text message from Barclays.  It told her that her card had been  
declined because she didnt have enough money in her account. Yet, she had transferred £3,000 
from another account a few weeks earlier.  She called  the bank and found  out that the second 
replacement card had been used multiple  times for purchases  totalling £2,758.42.
Miss T told Barclays that shed never received the second replacement card and that she hadnt  
made any of the payments. She asked Barclays for a refund.
Barclays decided not to refund her. It said the payments were made  with the replacement  card, 
which it had sent to her new address, and the PIN. It said it hadnt sent her a new PIN. And, as 
only she knew  the PIN, it concluded that she had authorised the transactions.
Miss T wasnt happy with Barclays decision so she brought  her complaint  to this service. 
The investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He couldnt see how a third party would  
know her PIN and so concluded it was more  likely than not that Miss T had authorised the
transactions.
Miss T didnt agree  with the investigators  view. She says Barclays has been negligent  for
issuing a replacement  card when she didnt  need one. She has asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant  law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, 
what I consider to have been good  industry practice  at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote  a detailed view that sets out in full the facts, the transactions, the relevant 
regulations and the evidence. Both Miss T and Barclays have read the investigators  view, so I wont 
repeat every detail here, only those which  form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure both 
that Ive read the file, including comments and evidence.
Having done so, my review  of the evidence has led me to a different conclusion. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN02119795In short, Barclays is required to refund the amount  of an unauthorised transaction. The relevant  
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs  2017). Miss T 
says she didnt make  the disputed transactions and is seeking a refund of them. So, my primary 
concern is to come to a view about whether  or not I think she authorised them.
Having reviewed  Barclays  audit reports, Im satisfied the genuine replacement  card and PIN
were used in order for the disputed  transactions.
But the regulations  relevant  to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable
Barclays to hold her liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence  suggests  that its 
more likely  than not that Miss T consented to the transactions.
Miss T says she never received the second replacement card. She has explained that she was 
living in student accommodation  with four other students.  She said letters  were posted directly 
through the letterbox  to the flat and parcels  were delivered to the reception.  So, the opportunity 
existed for a third party to intercept her mail.
However, Barclays says Miss T is linked  to the transactions by the PIN evidence. And even if a third 
party stole her card, theres no clear evidence  of how they knew the PIN.
The banks records confirm it didnt send a new PIN with the second replacement card. However,  
Miss T said Barclays wrote  to her on 31 October saying [T]he card and PIN were dispatched on 
different dates using different delivery  routes meaning the only place  they could have come together 
would be your property,  the address on our records (as at the top of this letter).
Unfortunately, I havent  seen a copy of this letter. Based on the available evidence I can only 
conclude that Barclays didnt send  a new PIN with the second  replacement card. If Miss T can send 
me the letter, I might  revise  my position.
Its difficult to see how a third party got hold of her PIN. But the PSRs say the card and PIN
are not, on their own, enough to hold her liable.
Ive looked at the locations,  timings and nature  of the disputed transactions. They  are very odd. 
Miss T was living in north  east London at the time. The transactions  were made  in north, north 
east, and east London.  Although they were  made in neighbouring boroughs, the vast majority of 
transactions were not made  in Miss Ts local area.
Many transactions occur  in local grocery shops in north  London. There is no good reason why 
Miss T would travel  from her local area to these areas for grocery  shopping in local shops.
Also, the timings show the person was constantly moving from one area to another  and often in the 
early hours of the morning. For example, on 17 September, the card was used at 00.50  for £99 at a 
petrol station  in north London. There was a second transaction for £23 at 00.54  at the same  petrol 
station. Miss T said she doesnt own a car. At 2.29, it was used on public  transport. At 2.50,  there 
was an unsuccessful  attempt to use it in a shop. At 3.55, there was another  unsuccessful  attempt to 
use the card at a petrol station in another  borough in north London. At 11:20,  there was an 
unsuccessful attempt at a supermarket in yet another borough.
On 13 September, the card was used in east London at 22:43. It was used next on 14
September at 9:47 to pay for travel. By 10:11, the person was in north London. Its not possible to 
get from the location  in east London to the location in north London, within that time.
And there are successive payments to small  grocery  stores, as Ive mentioned above.
Ref: DRN02119796The transactions are not for expensive goods. They are not multiple cash  withdrawals.  They  dont 
occur rapidly  within a short space of time. However,  they are still very odd. I dont think Miss T 
would have been in these areas, at these times,  making these transactions. And I dont consider I 
can rule out fraud.
So, despite the PIN, Im not convinced that Miss T authorised  these transactions  and I am 
upholding her complaint.
In reaching my decision, I have also taken into account regulation 73 of the Payment
Services Regulations 2017 which says:
(2) The payment service  provider bears the risk of sending to the payment service  user a 
payment instrument or any personalised security credentials relating to it.
I also note that regulation  72 says:
(1) A payment service user to whom a payment instrument has been issued  must  
(b)notify the payment  service provider in the agreed manner and without undue  delay on 
becoming aware of the loss, theft,  misappropriation  or unauthorised use of the payment 
instrument
The starting  point, therefore, is that Barclays remains liable for any loss arising  from an 
undelivered card unless:
the consumer knew the card had been lost; or
long enough  had passed  for them to realise, beyond any reasonable doubt, that the card 
wasnt going to arrive;
and they then unduly delayed  to notify the bank.
I dont think there  is emphatic evidence here that Miss T knew the card had been lost. 
Also, the card was ordered on 10 September. Miss T found out about the disputed
transactions on 29 September. While that is an interval of three weeks, I dont think  its a
long enough interval for her to realise beyond reasonable doubt that the card wasnt going  to arrive. 
So I dont  think regulation 72 applies.
I also note that there were  several declined  attempts  to use the card.  Had Miss T been using the 
card, then I would have expected her to call the bank when it was declined. However, there were no 
calls to the bank during this time.
In these circumstances, I dont consider that Miss T received  the replacement card.  I think its fair 
and reasonable for Barclays  to refund the disputed transactions.
However, this is a provisional  decision  and it might change depending  on any further 
evidence I receive. I think its important that Miss T understands this.
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I am upholding  this complaint.
I am asking Barclays  Bank PLC to:
refund the disputed  transactions totalling £2,758.42
pay 8% interest on this amount from the time the transactions left the account  until they 
are refunded
Ref: DRN02119797pay £100  for the distress  and inconvenience experienced by Miss T for the loss of her 
money and the time taken  to recover it.
Ref: DRN0211979