K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about the length of time that British Gas Insurance Limited  (BG) took 
to repair  a faulty installation, and that it wont reimburse him for the cost of a new heating 
system.
background
Mr B had a HomeCare insurance policy with BG that covered his boiler, controls and central  
heating and also included  an annual  service.
On 17 January 2019, Mr B had a flood  at his home caused by a burst  pipe in his heating 
system. BG repaired the burst pipe the following day. Further  problems were then identified 
with Mr Bs boiler, caused by sludge that may have moved when the pipe burst.
It was then noticed that Mr Bs thermal store cylinder was leaking. On 1 and 2 February BG 
replaced this under  his policy with a new cylinder  from Supplier G. 
Mr B says that after this new cylinder was fitted, it made a loud noise for four days  which he 
says caused him sleepless nights. BG returned on 5 February and diagnosed that when  
fitting the new cylinder, two pipes had been plumbed  in reverse.
Mr B says he was also experiencing intermittent fluctuations in the water  temperature  of his 
shower which he says was approaching dangerous levels. He says he was told by BG that 
there wasnt a fault with the new tank and instead that one of his taps was possibly leaking 
cold water  into the hot water system,  and until this was checked  nothing more  would  be 
done. So Mr B called in his own plumber  who checked all the taps and the shower  in the 
house. No mixing of water  was found.  He identified loose connections to the water pump 
which were causing  it to cut out. He also identified other installation problems with the new 
cylinder. Mr B had to pay his plumber £360. BG replaced the pump, and its position was 
changed. 
The water temperature  continued to fluctuate.  BGs  service manager  visited  Mr Bs property 
with an engineer from Supplier G on 8 March to test the water  temperature. BG says that its 
tests proved that the water  temperature at the taps and shower were the same  as set at the 
tank thermostat and were  not dangerous. Mr B says he has proof  of temperature spikes,  and 
that showering with a consistent water temperature was a lottery.  According to BG, when 
Mr B raised the option of having a combination boiler instead, he was told that a combi boiler 
would not be fitted as an alternative to a thermal store cylinder.
BG says that from 9 March until 3 April 2019  discussions  continued with Supplier G, who felt 
that the existing  cylinder could be repaired, and a number of further visits were made by BG 
and Supplier  G. Supplier G suggested  a modification to the cylinder but this wasnt  
acceptable to Mr B or BG.  Mr B says that on 22 March  BG measured up for a replacement 
cylinder. 
BG says that on 3 April Mr B was offered three options: (i) to replace  the faulty cylinder with 
a direct replacement from Supplier G (ii) replace the faulty cylinder with a differently 
designed tank (unvented) from Supplier G, or (iii) BG would investigate whether it could beat 
the quote Mr B had received for a combi  boiler  (which it couldnt).
Ref: DRN01550832BG says that Mr B out of the blue  asked for a direct replacement.  On 9 April,  BG asked 
Supplier G what the delivery time would be and was informed it would be a minimum of 
12 days. Mr B researched availability of a similar  cylinder and found that he could get one in 
four days  from a well known chain of plumbers merchants.
Mr B wasnt  prepared to wait a further  two weeks as a minimum for a replacement cylinder to 
be ordered and then installed. He maintains  that the cylinder  that was installed on 
1 February shouldve been replaced with a new cylinder within a week or so of BG not being 
able to repair it. Instead hed been without reliable hot water since  the new cylinder has been 
installed in February.  He says hed had to take five days holiday while  BG tried to find a 
solution to the fluctuating temperature problem with multiple visits by engineers  from both 
BG and Supplier G. He says hed simply been advised not to use the hot water  if he felt it 
was unsafe. 
Mr B decided to have a new combi  boiler  installed instead. He argues that as its an 
unvented system, it could  be flushed  in the future  to keep it free from sludge, which had 
been present  in his existing system. BG has said that an unvented  tank (option ii) could also 
be flushed. Mr B says his combi boiler  cost him over £3,000 including installation,  and he 
wants BG to reimburse him for this cost. He argues  that the cost of the combi  boiler  itself 
wasnt a great deal more  than the cost of the new cylinder that BG had offered to install.
BG says that the fault with Mr Bs fluctuating water temperature was intermittent, which  
made it more difficult for its engineers to diagnose.  It says it arranged for Supplier Gs 
engineers to visit alongside its engineers so that the fault could be rectified as quickly as 
possible. It also argues  that installing a combi boiler is an upgrade  to his system, and that 
any upgrade isnt covered by the terms of his policy.
BG also argues  that Mr Bs HomeCare  policy  is a service and maintenance agreement. If BG 
gets things wrong,  it puts them right. If a system fails and becomes faulty, it replaces the 
part/appliance with one of the same or similar functionality.
BG acknowledged the inconvenience that had been  caused to Mr B, and offered to replace 
the problematic cylinder and do upgrade work free of charge and make a goodwill payment 
of £300.00. Alternatively, if Mr B didnt want his cylinder replaced, it would give him £400.00  
towards a new system.   BG also agreed  to reimburse to Mr B the £360 hed paid to his own 
engineer to investigate the initial problems hed experienced  after the fitting  of the new 
cylinder. BG has paid Mr B £660.  It also agreed to waive two outstanding invoices totalling  
£120.
BG says that although it offered Mr B various  options to resolve the issue  with his cylinder, at 
no time did it offer him a replacement boiler.  This was Mr B's choice. It says that its offer to 
complete the work under his policy and to pay him £300.00 was fair and reasonable, but 
Mr B declined this in favour of replacing  his whole system with a combi  boiler. BG has said it 
wont reimburse him for this, and has referred to the General Exclusions in his policy which  
state:
Cash in lieu
We won't offer you cash instead of carrying out an annual service, repairs or 
replacements.
Ref: DRN01550833As Mr B wasnt satisfied with BGs final response  to his complaint,  he brought it to this 
service. Our investigators view was that the £300 compensation BG had offered was fair 
and reflects  the inconvenience caused to Mr B.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators  view and asked that it be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. It was passed to me to make a decision. I issued a preliminary decision on 
which BG has commented. Mr B has provided his comments on BGs  comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  and Ive taken account of the responses  
received from BG and Mr B to my provisional  decision.  Im  going  to uphold Mr Bs complaint 
and to make  a different award  to that of our investigator, and Ill explain why.
I can appreciate Mr Bs frustration that, having paid a premium for a service from BG that 
was supposed  to ensure his heating and hot water system worked  properly, he was without 
a reliable hot water supply  for at least  nine weeks, for which  he blames BG.
In my view, Mr B suffered an unacceptable level of service from BG. BG doesnt appear to 
dispute that problems were  initially  caused by the incorrect  installation of Mr Bs new cylinder 
on 1-2 February 2019. It doesnt appear  to agree about the fluctuations  in Mr Bs water 
temperature nor that these were  sometimes reaching a dangerous level.  Its only explanation 
for the fact that after some nine weeks there was still no resolution to the problem was that it 
was intermittent, and so was hard to diagnose.  Mr B was simply advised that if his hot water 
reached a dangerous level he should call BG and a BG engineer would attend ASAP to 
test/prove/fix. BG has said it never  received any such call from Mr B. But I think  its clear 
that BG and Supplier G had been attempting to test/prove/fix since early  February  without 
success. 
I consider that BG had an obligation to Mr B under his policy  to repair  or replace his cylinder 
and that it had had ample  time within which to do so. It hasnt  been  suggested  that anything  
else was responsible for the fluctuating temperature. Despite Mr B having complained to BG 
on 1 March, and many visits by BG and Supplier G after that date, it wasnt until early April 
that BG told Mr B what his options  were.
Mr B didnt want a replacement cylinder  as that wouldve involved even more delay. Hed 
been advised by others  that a combi boiler would  have  advantages over his existing system. 
BG says that this amounts  to an upgrade. Mr B accepts that it could  be perceived as an 
upgrade, but he maintains that it was a guaranteed fix that would avoid further costly 
problems in the future.
In the circumstances of this case,  I dont think its fair for BG to simply pay Mr B £300 
compensation because he rejected its offer of a replacement  cylinder.  BG had an obligation 
to repair  or replace Mr Bs cylinder.  It had offered to do so,and  wouldve incurred a cost in 
doing so.
But BG has said that supplying and installing a new cylinder wouldnt  have cost it anything 
as it would be covered  by Supplier  Gs warranty. But thats something between  BG and 
Supplier G that doesnt concern Mr B. His relationship is with BG, and its not fair to Mr B if 
BG doesnt effectively compensate him for not having his cylinder  repaired or replaced.
Ref: DRN01550834I dont think it would  be fair for me to require BG to reimburse to Mr B the full cost of his new 
combi boiler as I think that it could reasonably be regarded as an upgrade. Nor would it be 
fair to Mr B, if hed opted for a different system,  for BG to avoid its liability under his policy.
I think the fair and reasonable  outcome in this case would  be for BG to make a contribution 
towards what Mr B had to pay to replace his system,  and that that contribution should be 
what it wouldve cost BG to supply and install  a replacement  cylinder,  which is what it had 
offered to do under his policy. I think this is what Mr B might well have  chosen  if this had 
been offered to him earlier instead  of some nine weeks later with a further 12 days  before 
availability. 
As to BGs policy term which say that it wont pay cash in lieu of a repair or a replacement,  I 
dont consider that its reasonable  to apply this to a situation where the customer pays  for a 
repair or replacement  themselves,  as opposed  to claiming cash  instead of a repair  or 
replacement.
So Im proposing to require BG to pay Mr B what it would cost BG to supply and install a 
cylinder equivalent to the one that was installed on 1-2 February 2019 on the assumption 
that there  was no warranty provided by Supplier G.
I also think that Mr B should receive  compensation of £400 for the long delay in determining  
that a new cylinder  was required, the five days holiday  Mr B had to use, and the general 
trouble and upset  that I consider he experienced since  BGs installation of the cylinder in 
February 2019. BG has already  paid him £300 compensation, so Im going  to require it to 
pay him a further  £100.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im upholding Mr Bs complaint and I require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr B a sum equal to:
 
(i)the trade  cost of a replacement cylinder of the same model as that installed in
February 2019; and
(ii)the cost to BG of installing such new cylinder (assuming this was not done under the 
manufacturers warranty).
British Gas Insurance Limited must also pay interest on (i) and (ii) above  at 8% simple  from 
the date of installation of Mr Bs new Combi boiler.
British Gas Insurance Limited must also pay Mr B further compensation of £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0155083