K821x#15complaint
Mrs T has complained that Tesco Personal Finance Plc hasnt dealt properly with her claim 
for a refund for the price  she paid for sub-standard hotel rooms. 
background
Mrs T paid for the rooms via her Tesco credit  card.  Tesco looked  at her refund claim as a 
potential chargeback and also under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
Tesco rejected  Mrs Ts claim.  It noted  that Mrs T and members of her family accompanying 
her had used the hotel  rooms. Tesco said Mrs Ts concerns about the rooms were quality 
issues, which were subjective.  In summary, Tesco didnt  think  Mrs T had met the threshold  
for making  a successful  refund  claim.
Mrs T disagreed with Tescos  decision  and came to the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator upheld  Mrs Ts complaint.  She initially  recommended  that Tesco  should  
refund 25% of the price  for two of the three rooms that Mrs T had booked using her credit 
card. 
The investigator didnt  accept it would be right to require  Tesco  to pay also for the breakfasts 
Mrs T had bought elsewhere. She (the investigator)  didnt  think she could fairly conclude that 
the breakfast  in the hotel  would have been unfit to eat. 
Tesco replied that it was in principle ready to abide by the investigators conclusions.  
However, it pointed out that the price  for one of the two rooms  had been  less than £100. So 
that transaction wasnt covered by section 75. 
The investigator agreed and revised  her conclusions to exclude the second room.
Mrs T thanked the investigator for her consideration of her complaint but didnt accept her 
conclusions. She had three main points:
Although the price  for the second room  had in isolation been less than £100, the 
reality of the situation was that Mrs T had agreed  to pay for the rooms  as one deal. 
So it wouldnt be right to exclude the second room.
Mrs T and her family  hadnt chosen  to remain  in the rooms.  Theyd  had no option in 
the circumstances but to continue  to use them. A 25% refund  wasnt enough  the 
rooms had been completely unfit for use. And the injury suffered by Mrs Ts young 
daughter necessitated  Mrs T staying  awake most of the night anyway. 
Mrs T and her family  hadnt refused to eat breakfast  at the hotel purely on the 
assumption it wouldnt be fit to eat. Mrs Ts mother had seen that the hotels kitchen 
was dirty. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mrs T but Ive 
come to broadly  the same conclusions as the investigator. 
Ref: DRN03103532My additional comments  are:
I think its right to treat the price paid for each room as a separate  transaction.  It was 
possible, for example, that one of the rooms was of impeccable  quality,  while the 
other(s) was not. In other words, in this sort of situation it was necessary to look at 
each room separately.
So I agree the second room should  be excluded  from any section 75 claim. This isnt 
a question of fairness  or unfairness, its just how the relevant rules  work. 
If Ive understood  Mrs Ts comments  correctly,  she feels  shes effectively been 
penalised for staying  in the rooms instead  of leaving and claiming a full refund. But I 
still think fairness requires us to take account of the fact that, for whatever reason, 
Mrs T and her family  did use the rooms.
In all the circumstances, I too think a 25% discount/refund is fair.
The available evidence hasnt persuaded me it would be fair to require Tesco to pay 
for the breakfasts. 
I appreciate this is a separate point  and the inspection took place after Mrs Ts visit, 
but public  records  show the hotel had a five out of five food hygiene  rating  on its last 
inspection. 
I think it was reasonable for Tesco not to proceed with a chargeback  claim. Its clear  
from the hotels  response that it would have resisted the claim, and quality issues do 
indeed contain  subjective elements. Its again  a separate point, but the reviews  of the 
hotel on the internet  are far from being universally or generally critical. 
Im sorry  Mrs Ts daughter was injured in the room  and I hope  shes now fully 
recovered. 
my final decision
I require Tesco Personal Finance Plc to refund £33.75 to Mrs Ts credit card account,  
effective from the date of the original debit. So, after the refund the account should be 
adjusted financially, if necessary, to make  it as if the refund had taken place on that date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0310353