K822xcomplaint
Mr S is unhappy Covea Insurance plc has avoided  (which  means  they cancelled it as though  
it never existed) his motor  insurance  policy and not dealt with two claims. 
Mr S is represented, by the named  driver,  in this complaint. 
background
Mr S first took out this policy in November 2016,  with cover starting in December of that 
year. At the time of applying for the policy Mr S told Covea he was employed in a particular 
role. 
A few days  after the policy started  though, Mr S changed his job role to include making 
deliveries for the same employer. Mr S did not tell Covea about  his change of role. 
In December 2017, Mr S notified Covea hed been  involved in an accident. But said he didnt 
need to make a claim at this time because he thought he would be covered by his 
employers insurance.  It was at this point that it became clear that Mr S employment had 
changed and he was now using the insured  vehicle  for a purpose that Covea didnt offer 
cover for. 
Because of this Covea cancelled the policy  and wrote, in a letter dated  24 January 2018,  to 
Mr S to explain  that they had done so and the reasons for it. Mr S says he didnt receive  this 
letter. He says the first time he discovered his insurance had been  cancelled was 20 
February 2018 when  he was stopped by the Police, the car he was driving was seized and 
Mr S named  driver  had to pay to get it back.  
Mr S named  driver  arranged for this car to be released a few days  later and Mr S says he 
arranged separate  insurance in March 2018. 
Mr S complained to Covea about what had happened. Covea said they had made the 
decision to cancel Mr S policy because he hadnt told them he was using his car to make 
deliveries, and if he had they wouldnt have offered him cover. And they said theyd  written  to 
him to explain this. 
Our case handler looked into Mr S complaint. He said,  in summary, that Covea had shown  
that had Mr S told them about  his change in employment they wouldnt have offered him 
cover. And so, he thought  it was fair in the circumstances  that Covea had decided to cancel  
the policy. 
The case  handler  also initially  said that all the premiums had been returned to Mr S. But later 
clarified this with both parties and Covea agreed to refund  a further £1,363.27 of premiums 
that had not yet been returned to Mr S. He thought this was a fair way to resolve the 
complaint.
Mr S didnt accept the case handlers findings.  He said Covea deliberately withheld the 
return of premiums, whilst  also refusing to deal with his claims under the policy.  He wanted 
8% interest to be applied  to the refund. Our case handler considered this, but didnt think 
interest was warranted  because  of, he said, Mr S failure to update them  about his change of 
role. As Mr S didnt  agree the complaint was passed to me. 
Ref: DRN09918002I issued a provisional decision on 23 December 2019 saying I intended  to reach  a slightly 
different conclusion to our investigator. Ive included a copy of my findings  here:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to partially 
uphold Mr S complaint.  
Mr S has raised a number  of issues so Ive dealt with each of these separately  below.  
cancellation of the policy
At times, Mr S has said that he understands that Covea were entitled  to cancel the policy. 
And that he doesnt  dispute their decision to do so. But on other occasions, hes said he 
doesnt think it was fair of them  to do it because it was actually Mr S himself that told Covea 
about the change in his job role in the end. So Ive considered whether I think Covea treated 
Mr S unfairly by deciding  to cancel his policy. 
When Mr S bought his policy, and when he later renewed it, he had a responsibility  under 
the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  to take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. For an insurer  to take any action or not 
honour any claim, Covea  needs to show that Mr S didnt do this and that he made whats 
called a qualifying  misrepresentation.   
CIDRA sets out a number of things to consider  when deciding  if a consumer has failed to 
take reasonable care and one these  is what questions  the consumer was asked. I can see 
that the website  Mr S used to buy the policy initially in 2016 asked him what  job do you do? 
and, at this point in time, Im satisfied the answer Mr S gave was correct.  
But a few days after the policy started  Mr S job role changed  which meant  he was now 
using his car at work to make deliveries. The policy says that the policyholder must tell 
Covea, as soon  as possible, about any change in circumstances which could affect  the 
insurance cover. And it goes on to give examples; one of which is a change in use of your 
car. I think its fair to say that going  from simply using your car to get to and from work, to 
making deliveries in it for your employer constitutes  a change of use. So I think Mr S 
shouldve told Covea  about this. 
When Mr S policy  renewed he entered into a new contract with Covea.  And again, he had 
an obligation  to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. Ive looked at the 
documents Covea  sent to Mr S about  the renewal.  The statement of fact says:
Please read the following facts carefully,  they are a record  of the information  provided by 
youIf you are satisfied that, to the best of your knowledge  and belief, the information in this 
document is correct  then you do not need  to do anything. If any of the facts are incomplete  
or incorrect, please contact us
The statement  of fact then has a section called car usage which  says Social,  Domestic  
and Pleasure  including  commuting to single a place of work. And another  section  which 
asks about Mr S main  occupation and Im satisfied whats listed  here is the original  role Mr S 
told Covea about.  Its not disputed that by this time Mr S had changed his role and therefore 
Ref: DRN09918003the use of his car had changed, so, as Ive said, I think a clear  question was asked at the 
start of the first policy and Mr S was asked to check the information again  at renewal. 
Having considered what Covea asked Mr S at the inception of the policy and also at 
renewal, Im satisfied he failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. To 
show that its a qualifying misrepresentation, Covea needs to show that they would  either not 
have offered the policy at all if the misrepresentation hadnt  been made. Or that they 
wouldve offered  cover  but on different  terms. Coveas  provided evidence of their 
underwriting criteria which shows that they would not have offered Mr S cover  at all if they 
had known he was using his car to make deliveries.  So Im satisfied Mr S made  a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
Overall, I think Covea  were entitled  to cancel Mr S policy in the circumstances. 
refund of the premiums
Covea have said they consider that Mr S representation was careless, rather  than reckless  
or deliberate. And because of this, Covea said theyd refunded all Mr S premiums.  
But our case handler  discovered that Covea had returned Mr S premiums  going back to the 
most recent change of vehicle on the policy, which was on 8 January 2018. But not the 
premiums going back  to the original inception of the policy in December  2016.  
Under CIDRA, where  theres  been  a careless  qualifying misrepresentation and the insurer 
wouldnt have provided insurance at all  the insurer is entitled to cancel the policy  and can 
refuse all claims   but they must  return the premiums. Which  Covea has now agreed they  
didnt do straight away. 
So in the circumstances, I think Covea should refund Mr S premiums from the start of the 
first policy  if they havent  already  done so. Mr S has asked that we tell Covea to apply 
interest to the refund.  Ive thought carefully  about this and as Covea have held on to Mr S 
refund for a considerable amount of time, when he shouldve received all of his premiums - I 
think they should pay interest  on this amount. This should be from the date of the 
cancellation to the date the refund was made. 
notification of the cancellation
Covea says that they wrote to Mr S to notify  him of the decision to cancel the policy  in a 
letter which was dated 24 January 2018,  but says because of an administration  error,  the 
letter wasnt  actually sent until 6 February  2018.
Ive seen a copy  of the letter. It isnt clear from its contents when the cancellation of the 
policy would take effect. Wed normally expect  an insurer  to write to the consumer in 
advance of the cancellation  taking  effect, but it doesnt look like Covea  have done  this. The 
terms and conditions of Mr S policy says that Covea will give seven days notice if they 
intend to cancel the policy. Based on the content  of their letter, and their internal notes 
suggesting the cancellation  of the cover had immediate  effect   I dont think Covea gave 
Mr S any clear,  advance notice that they had decided to cancel his policy.   
Wed also normally expect a letter to be sent after the cancellation of the policy to confirm 
that there  is no longer cover in place. This is because of the seriousness  of such a decision 
and the implications for an individual if they dont  have valid motor insurance. As was the 
case for Mr S. But I cant see that one was sent to Mr S in this case.  So I dont think  Covea 
Ref: DRN09918004have done everything they should  have to let Mr S know  he would no longer have insurance 
with them  and when  this would happen. 
Mr S says the first he heard about  the cancellation of the policy was when he was stopped 
by police and the car he was driving  was seized. Ive not seen anything to persuade  me that 
Covea did try to speak to Mr S over the phone about  this or that a follow up letter was sent 
after the cancellation. So I dont think Covea did everything they shouldve  done to make  
Mr S aware that he was no longer insured.  And if they had, I think Mr S wouldve made 
arrangements for other insurance  much sooner than he ended up doing.  
As Covea  didnt handle the cancellation in the way Id expect; by not clearly writing to Mr S 
to let him know what was happening with his policy and by also then not refunding all of his 
premiums straightaway,  I think  thats caused  some  worry and inconvenience. In recognition 
of this, I think Covea should  pay Mr S £150. 
refusal to deal with the claims
Mr S says that there  are two claims made under his policy that Covea are refusing to deal 
with. 
As Covea  have cancelled Mr S policy  that means  the position  now is as though Mr S was 
never covered by them. Which means that at the time of both collisions, in effect, there was 
no policy in place, so Coveas entitled to refuse  to pay both Mr S claims.  And has now 
agreed to return all the premiums. 
conviction and future  costs
Mr S has told us that he was stopped while driving  by the police. His representative  has told 
us that Mr S was driving someone elses  car at this time, and that car was later impounded 
because Mr S was found to be driving  without insurance. However,  its not clear to me, 
based on the information Ive seen, why Mr S was stopped by the police in the first place. 
Ive asked Mr S to provide evidence of the conviction. He hasnt done so. But, Ive noted that 
when Mr S was stopped   he was driving  someone elses  car. And, based  on the invoice 
showing the fee for retrieving this car after it had been seized  it looks  like this was paid by 
Mr S named  driver.  This policy didnt cover  the car Mr S was driving that day and as its not 
clear to me why Mr S was stopped by the police, I dont think  I can fairly say this was 
because Covea had cancelled Mr S insurance.  
So I dont  think Covea  need to compensate Mr S for the conviction  as Ive seen no 
evidence of it - or the costs associated with the seizure of the car  as the car wasnt Mr S 
and the costs werent paid by him in any event. 
Mr S costs
Mr S has asked  that we find that Covea should  pay his costs of bringing  this complaint; hes 
not provided any evidence of what those  costs are exactly. But in any event,  I dont think  
thats warranted. We wouldnt normally award  costs   were not a court and our service  is 
free for consumers. I appreciate Mr S has chosen to have his named driver  represent him 
but that was his choice.
Ref: DRN09918005Mr S also thinks  Covea  should cover the cost of him having to obtain insurance elsewhere. 
But, as Ive explained I dont think their decision to cancel the policy  was wrong   Mr S would 
always have needed  to have sought  cover elsewhere. So I dont think Covea need to pay 
anything to cover Mr S costs of having to arrange  alternative insurance.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I plan to uphold this complaint in part and, to put things right,  I 
intend to require Covea Insurance Plc to:
Refund any remaining  premiums to Mr S as agreed.  And pay 8% interest on this 
amount from the date of the cancellation to the date the refund is made. 
Pay Mr S £150 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by not 
properly notifying  him of the cancellation of his policy and not refunding the premiums  
straight away.  
Mr S replied  to my provisional decision to say he accepted all of it; except for the part about 
the costs of retrieving  his named drivers car which he was stopped  by the police while 
driving. Mr S provided further copies of the invoice for retrieving  this car, the seizure  notice 
and his representative made  the point that although the invoice was addressed to him, it was 
in fact Mr S who paid this money. So it was a cost incurred  by him. And he said the reason 
Mr S was stopped was for an insurance check, in an area where this is common.   
Covea replied to say they had arranged for payment  of what  Id said I intended  to award  
Mr S. So although  they havent said explicitly, Ive taken this to mean they accept  my 
provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  from the responses  Ive received, both parties accept the findings I provisionally 
made - except in relation  to the costs of retrieving the car that was impounded by police. So 
thats the only area I will comment on here. 
The evidence thats been provided isnt anything we dont already have. To be clear, I accept 
Mr S was stopped by police and the car was seized.  But its still not clear  what  prompted  the 
stop by police, beyond what Mr S has said about being in an area where police  often stop 
cars. 
Mr S wasnt  driving the car his policy with Covea covered when he was stopped by the 
police. And he still hasnt provided anything to show he was later convicted of driving without 
insurance. Weve been sent another copy of the invoice  addressed  to Mr S named driver  
and representative.  Mr S representative  says Mr S paid him for the costs  of retrieving his 
car. But having considered everything thats  been provided, I still dont think Ive seen 
enough to conclude that Covea are responsible for this. 
Coveas obligations  in the circumstances  are to compensate Mr S for any mistake  they made  
which caused him a financial  loss. As Ive not seen anything to substantiate  that it was in fact 
Mr S loss, and not his representatives - I still dont  think Covea need to cover these costs. 
Ref: DRN09918006my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is I uphold this complaint in part and, to put 
things right, I require  Covea Insurance Plc  if they havent already done  so - to:
Refund any remaining  premiums to Mr S as agreed.  And pay 8% interest on this 
amount from the date of the cancellation to the date the refund is made. 
Pay Mr S £150 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by not 
properly notifying  him of the cancellation of his policy and not refunding the premiums  
straight away.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0991800