K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a single  
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1998.
background
Mr V took out a loan with Nationwide in 1998 with a two year loan term. He was sold a single 
premium PPI policy at the same  time in connection with this loan during a meeting. 
The PPI would have  covered Mr Vs loan repayments if he was off work sick for the 
remaining term of the loan and for up to 12 months per claim  if he lost his job. The policy  
would also have paid the outstanding loan amount in the unfortunate event of Mr Vs death.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Vs complaint should  be upheld. Mr V didnt agree with the 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Vs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Vs complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive checked whether Mr V was eligible under the policy.  Based on what Mr V has 
told us about his age, employment  and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mr V 
would have been eligible.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr V that the PPI was optional and needed his consent 
before it could be applied to his account. Mr V says that the PPI was added  to his account  
without his knowledge.
Nationwide have explained their sales process  and provided a copy of the credit agreement  
from the time of the sale. It seems that PPI would only have appeared on the credit  
agreement if Mr V had requested it. I can see that the cost of PPI appeared on the 
agreement separately  to the cost of the loan and did so under the heading  optional  credit 
insurance. If Mr V had changed  his mind about  the PPI or not asked for it in the first place, 
then this would have provided  him with a further opportunity to tell Nationwide that he didnt 
want it. But by signing the credit agreement with the PPI as an optional  extra,  Mr V agreed to 
take it out.
So all in all, based on the evidence Ive seen,  I think the PPI was presented  as optional and 
was added to the account because Mr V chose  to take it out when he signed  the agreement. 
Of course its understandable  that Mr V may now not remember  this given how long ago the 
sales took place.
Nationwide say they didnt recommend PPI to Mr V. And I havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest otherwise.  This means Nationwide didnt have to take steps  to check  the PPI was 
suitable for Mr V. So for example, Nationwide didnt have to take into account the existing 
Ref: DRN05240852repayment provisions  Mr V has told us he had at the time of the sale  employee benefits 
and another insurance policy. Instead  it would  have been Mr Vs decision as to whether or 
not to take PPI despite his existing  provisions.  
But Nationwide did have to provide  Mr V with clear information so that he could make an 
informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should have drawn Mr 
Vs attention  to the costs,  benefits and main  exclusions/restrictions  in the policy.
I can see the cost of the policy  was set out clearly in the credit agreement.
But its possible Nationwide didnt give Mr V the information as they should  have about the 
benefits and the main  exclusions  in the policy. However, this in itself doesnt mean PPI was 
mis-sold as I have to go on and consider  whether better information would have put him off 
taking PPI. 
I dont think knowing about  the exclusions would have put Mr V off taking PPI as he doesnt  
appear to have been affected by the main exclusions/restrictions in the policy which  would 
have made  it difficult for him to make  a claim. And as I understand it, Mr V did make a 
successful claim  under  the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr V 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.  
I also note that the policy  would have  paid out in addition  to any other benefits Mr V may 
have held and for a longer  period of time. For example, Mr V has told us about his employee 
sick pay and insurance policy. I havent  seen any evidence of Mr Vs other policy but even if 
he did have this other policy and it wasnt attached to any other lending,  the PPI would still 
have been of use to Mr V as the benefit  of the PPI policy would  have lasted much  longer and 
it could potentially have  paid out for the remaining  term of the loan if Mr V was off work sick. 
Given that the credit agreement set out that the insurance provided disability and 
unemployment benefit it appears  to me that Mr V felt that he had a need for this additional 
cover despite his existing  provisions.
So I dont  think better information about the benefits of the policy would have put Mr V off 
taking PPI either.
And although this was a single premium policy, it appears Mr V wouldve received  a pro-rata 
refund. So I dont think better information about the cancellation terms would have affected 
his decision either.
Having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Nationwide mis-sold Mr V this PPI 
policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint against  Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Ref: DRN05240853Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0524085