K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP gave  her a loan that she couldnt afford to 
repay.
background
Ms R was given a loan for £500 by Uncle Buck in September 2017. The loan was due to be 
repaid in three monthly  instalments of around  £230. But Ms R wasnt able to repay that loan 
as planned and a balance  remained outstanding when she brought  her complaint to us.
Ms Rs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He thought  that the checks  
Uncle Buck  had done before agreeing the loan had been sufficient. And that those checks  
had indicated that Ms R was able to repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. So he didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. 
Ms R didnt agree with that assessment but she didnt really set out what she thought  the 
adjudicator had got wrong. She said that another loan hadnt been  taken into account and 
that Uncle Buck had not correctly recorded her income but she didnt provide anything  else.  
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage  of our process.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Uncle Buck, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to 
satisfy itself that Ms R would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Ms R would have been 
able to do so.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Ms Rs indebtedness in a way that was otherwise 
unsustainable or harmful?
Did Uncle Buck act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that Uncle Buck did not act fairly  and reasonably in its dealings with Ms R and 
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a sustainable manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves didnt  set out compulsory  checks, 
Ref: DRN04335592they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key element was that any checks needed  to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being  
borrowed was due to be repaid. 
Uncle Buck  has told us about  the checks it did before lending to Ms R. Before the loan it 
asked her for details  of her income,  and her normal expenditure. It used this information to 
calculate how much  disposable income  Ms R had each month that she could use to repay 
her borrowing.  And Uncle Buck checked  Ms Rs credit  file before lending to her. Ive looked 
at the results  from those  credit checks and cant see any adverse indicators that I think  
should have caused additional concerns  to the lender.
The information that Ms R gave to Uncle Buck suggested that she was earning £1,800 when 
she asked for the loan.  She said her outgoings  were £1000. So on the basis of the figures 
she gave the loan instalments would have looked affordable. There  was nothing in Ms Rs 
figures that should  have caused concern or required Uncle Buck  to do further checks.
I think that the checks Uncle Buck did before agreeing the loans was sufficient and 
proportionate. The amounts that Ms R needed to repay appeared to be sustainably 
affordable based  on what  shed said about  her finances. And as it was in the relatively  early  
stages of its relationship  with Ms R I think it was reasonable for Uncle Buck  to rely on that 
information without  undertaking additional checks.  I dont  think it was wrong for Uncle Buck  
to give this loan to Ms R.
I have taken into account what Ms R says about  her outgoings and the figure Uncle  Buck 
says she gave for food seems unrealistic to her. This figure came from Uncle Bucks records 
and so I think it is likely that this is the figure  Ms R gave. It was reasonable for the business  
to rely on this at the outset of the lending relationship. I havent seen any evidence  that Ms R 
had more than one loan with uncle  Buck  as she says. The business records  I have seen 
show only one loan and Ms R hasnt provided  anything else.
I can see that Ms R did enter  into a repayment arrangement with another payday  lender but 
this was after she took out the loan with Uncle Buck. Ive looked at Ms Rs credit  file and the 
results of Uncle Bucks credit checks and there is nothing that would have caused concern at 
the time.
I appreciate that Ms R is struggling  but I cant say that this should have been evident  to 
Uncle Buck  or that it did anything wrong  in giving her the loan on the basis  of the information 
she gave them and what it knew about her.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Uncle Buck  Finance LLP.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0433559