K821x#15complaint
Miss Ms complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest)  is that it loaned  to her 
irresponsibly.
background
In May 2017, Miss M applied for two loans with Natwest. One for £15,000 (loan 1) and 
another for £3,000 (loan 2). And in April 2018  she applied  for a further £3,000  loan (loan 3).
She says that had Natwest carried out proper affordability checks,  it would have seen her 
financial position and wouldnt  have  given the loans.  She also says she wasnt of her right 
mind when she took them out, due to a mental health condition.
She wants the loans  balances  to be written-off, and for her credit  file to be amended  as 
though shed never taken them.
She complained to Natwest, and it said it didnt  think it had done anything  wrong,  and from 
the checks it did at the relevant application  times  it was satisfied the loans were affordable.
Miss M didnt agree, so brought her complaint  to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and after obtaining further information from both 
parties, concluded that the first two loans  in 2017  shouldnt  have been allowed, and that 
Miss M should receive  a refund of all interest  and charges on them,  as well as the loans 
being removed  from her credit file. 
However, he felt that the 2018  loan was affordable, based on the information given to 
Natwest by Miss M, and what it found from its other  checks.
Natwest accepted  this view. But Miss M disagreed, as she still thought  all the loans were 
unaffordable. She said she suffered from a mental health condition  that meant  she took them  
out during manic periods,  and that she hadnt  benefitted from the money. She still wanted 
the balances to be written-off.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaints come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator.  I think loans 1 and 2 shouldnt  have 
been given to Miss M as sufficient affordability  checks hadnt been  carried out, and even on 
what Natwest could already see about her financial status, I dont think  it was entitled to say 
they were affordable. 
However, I think it was different with loan 3, and that Natwest  was entitled to deem this loan 
affordable.
I know my decision will come as a huge  disappointment to Miss M. Its clear shes  had a 
difficult time for a number  of years now, which Im genuinely sorry to hear. She says she 
Ref: DRN05948752wasnt well when she took the loans, and that the manner in which she spent the money  
meant that she didnt  ultimately benefit from it. However,  Natwest  wasnt  aware  of her mental 
capacity at the time she took the loans, and had no reason  to be concerned about that 
specifically. And regardless of what the money was used for, and whether Miss M feels she 
benefitted from it, she did as a matter of fact spend it. A such, it wouldnt be fair for me to 
hold Natwest responsible for this. 
Id like to explain why Ive reached this outcome. 
Loan 1 - £15,000  May 2017
On Natwests own criteria,  Miss M needed to have enough free income   after taking off any 
existing liabilities and living costs  to be able to afford the repayments.  And from the figures 
Ive seen, this wasnt  the case. This has already been discussed, and explained, in detail 
with Natwest. So I wont say anything further  on this point.
Loan 2 - £3,000  May 2017
Natwest accepts that this loan should  have been declined, as it was applied for at the same 
time as Loan  1. Due to an error  with its systems,  this didnt happen.
Loan 3 - £3,000  April 2018
Miss Ms income  had increased by the time of this application, and she told Natwest  she had 
no outgoings. However, Natwest was able to make an assessment based on what it already 
knew about Miss M, and used an assumed  figure for her living costs. I think  this was a 
reasonable approach. Once  this was done,  it was satisfied  there  was enough  free income 
left to deem  this loan affordable.
I know Miss Ms argued  that her outgoings were actually greater than Natwests assumed 
costs. She said this was due to having children  with special needs, who required additional 
spending for care and equipment. And while this may have  been  the case, Natwest  wasnt 
aware of this, and Miss M herself  didnt say anything at the time.  So I cant fairly say it 
should have factored that in to its decision.
On that basis, I think the affordability assessment it did for this loan was fair and 
proportionate, and it was entitled  to allow the loan.  
It follows that I wont be asking Natwest to refund interest and charges on this loan, nor to 
take any action  in respect of it in Miss Ms credit file. 
summary 
Having reached  this decision, Im aware  of Miss Ms ongoing difficulties, and Id expect 
Natwest to treat her positively and sympathetically in discussing how the loan balances  of 
loans 1 and 2, and the full loan account  of loan 3 can be repaid. 
Im sorry  this isnt the result Miss M was hoping for, but my role is to assess  the evidence 
and reach  an outcome  thats fair to both parties. And I think  this is.
Ref: DRN05948753my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To resolve matters, Im asking 
National Westminster Bank Plc to:-
Refund all interest  and charges applied to loans 1 and 2, to date, and discuss  an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss M for the balances;
Pay 8% interest on these refunds, to the date of settlement;
Apply these refunds  to the outstanding loan balances; and
Amend Miss Ms credit file to remove all traces of loans 1 and 2.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0594875