K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the administration of his annuity based pension  by the Prudential 
Assurance Company  Limited. He says Prudential  has made  deductions from his pension 
plan and hasnt  provided a proper  explanation  in respect of those deductions.  Mr B says 
Prudential hasnt explained the repeated daily and monthly fluctuations  to the value of his 
plan. He also complains  about the level of his annual bonuses. 
Mr B complains about the customer service he received from Prudential  when  he asked for 
information and asked to be called back.
Mr B also complains that Prudential repeatedly wrote to him encouraging and enticing him to 
increase his contributions without warning him of the consequences to his original contract 
and benefits.
background
Mr B took out an annuity based  pension  plan in 1986 and paid monthly premiums (or 
contributions) into the plan. The plan provided guaranteed  and non-guaranteed  benefits. 
In 2013 Mr B enquired about  making a transfer into his pension plan.
In 2016 Mr B enquired about  making a lump  sum payment of £4,000 to his pension plan. 
In 2016 Mr B complained to the business  about  fluctuations to the daily value of his plan.  He 
explained he was able to see these on his online  account. 
The business didnt  uphold his complaint. It explained Mr Bs plan didnt have a fund value; it 
had a notional  transfer value. That was because it wasnt a typical money purchase pension 
but provided a promise of a future  pension.  
The business said the transfer value  was a calculation of the value of the benefits provided 
by the plan (in other words.  how much it would cost to buy an annuity to provide those 
benefits) which  depended  on a number  of factors. It explained the value fluctuated as the 
factors taken into account  for instance  annuity  rates and gilt yields  went  up and down. 
The business also explained that some  of the factors use to calculate the policy  benefits  
were relevant to the anniversary dates. So in order to calculate  a notional value for a 
particular date the rates had to be interpolated between the anniversary dates.
It also said that overall Mr Bs plan had increased  in value  over six months. The business 
said it was unable to provide detailed  information  as to how the value was calculated as this 
was commercially  sensitive.
Mr B didnt accept the explanation given by the business. He said he could see deductions  
from his plan which started suddenly and then occurred  consistently and on a daily basis.  He 
said he could see this by keeping a track of the daily value of his plan online.
Mr B also said that Prudential had repeatedly written to him encouraging and enticing  him to 
increase his contributions without warning him of the consequences to his original contract 
and benefits.
Ref: DRN09798102Mr B referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt think  Mr Bs complaint 
should be upheld.  She said his plan had a notional transfer value. The investigator said 
different factors were used by the business to calculate that value.  She accepted there  were  
fluctuations but felt this was due to changes in the factors used to calculate the value. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded that the business  had administered Mr Bs plan 
incorrectly. She also didnt think the business should  have to give Mr B commercially 
sensitive information  about how it calculated the notional  value.  The investigator suggested 
that Mr B ask the business for illustrations which would give him the best idea of what he 
might get back from his pension.
Mr B complained again to our service  that the business had continued to make  deductions 
without proper explanation and that it had failed to provide a plausible explanation for those 
deductions. He said those deductions  were  daily, weekly and monthly.  He also complained 
that the business refused  to provide  him with records of telephone calls and refused to 
accept his screen shots as evidence. He asked  for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
Our investigator took into account the points made by Mr B. But overall she felt he was 
complaining about the same issues he had previously raised  in 2017 and her view remained  
unchanged.
The investigator also considered the points Mr B had previously raised about making 
additional contributions.  The investigator agreed  that Prudential  had provided  Mr B with the 
option to increase his contributions on a number of occasions but she didnt think there  was 
any evidence to show his original plan would have ended. 
She noted Prudential hadnt given Mr B advice  about increasing  contributions  but she said it 
did have to provide  Mr B with information  that was clear, fair and not misleading. She took 
into account that Mr B had enquired  in 2013  about  making a transfer in to his plan and in 
2016 about making a lump sum payment. The investigator noted that Mr B hadnt gone 
ahead with either option. So she considered Mr B was aware  that these were options  and he 
was aware he didnt have to take them. The investigator wasnt  persuaded that the 
information provided by Prudential  had been  unclear, unfair  or misleading.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  He said Prudential encouraged  him to 
increase his contributions but didnt  make it clear he would be worse  off by making a lump  
sum payment. Particularly as Prudential would  treat this as a new plan which  meant he 
would pay higher charges.
As no agreement could be reached  Mr Bs complaint was referred to me for a review
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr B has raised a number  of matters over the course of his complaint. In this final decision I 
have focused  on the content  of Mr Bs original  complaint to this service  and the issues which 
I consider to be central to his complaint. 
Ref: DRN09798103I note Mr B has also raised some  additional  concerns about the taxation of his plan and the 
calculation of death benefits  under the plan during the course of this complaint. As these  are 
new matters I havent  addressed  them  in this final decision. I note we have informed Mr B 
that the taxation matter would be dealt with separately  by the business. But it is of course  
open to Mr B to raise  new matters with the business.
Plan value
Mr B took out an annuity based  pension  plan. It was set up on a with-profits  basis  and had 
guaranteed and non  guaranteed benefits. It provided a basic  annuity which was a 
guaranteed benefit.
Mr B was able to look at the value of his plan online. When he looked at the value on a daily 
basis he saw fluctuations which concerned him. He feels deductions were being  made  from 
the plan as it was reduced by a similar  daily amount over a certain period. He also says 
similar changes  happened on a monthly basis. So he doesnt accept these changes are 
caused by market fluctuations. 
The business has explained and I accept that this is not a plan which has a fund value.      
Mr Bs pension  plan provides certain benefits and the value of those benefits is calculated  to 
give a notional transfer value. So I consider what Mr B is seeing when he looks  at his plan 
online is the recalculation of that notional transfer  value  based on a number of factors. If one 
of those factors is changing this may well have  the effect of changing the notional value. 
However, whilst  the notional value may go up and down, Mr Bs guaranteed benefits remain 
the same. So Im not convinced on balance  that there is evidence  to indicate the business 
has incorrectly administered his plan.
I appreciate that Mr B would like further detail from the business as to what is happening to 
the notional value. But the business  has explained and I accept that information  as to how it 
calculates the value involves commercially sensitive information. So I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable for me to tell the business to disclose that information. 
I also note that whilst there were fluctuations to the notional value in 2016 overall the value 
of his plan increased.
Mr B also says in effect that there is a contradiction in the information  provided by the 
business. He says the business has told him this is not a typical  money purchase pension.  
However, it provided him an illustration in 2016 which quoted  sales  costs for setting up an 
annuity. The setting  up of an annuity  would  normally  involve sales costs  so I am not 
persuaded that including this on an illustration shows his pension  is a typical money  
purchase pension.  I take into account that the documentation shows  his plan has certain 
guaranteed benefits.
Bonuses
Mr B also complains about the level of bonuses he has received.  This plan was set up on a 
with profits  basis. A with-profits fund provides plan holders with annual  bonuses but the level 
of those annual  bonuses is not guaranteed.  This will be affected by the performance of the 
with profits fund.  In addition with-profits funds apply smoothing which means in good years  
some bonuses will be held back for poorer performing years.  The aim is to try to protect plan 
holders from short  term fluctuations  in market conditions.
Ref: DRN09798104I do understand that Mr B has concerns about the transparency of how bonuses are applied 
to his plan and how the transfer value is calculated. I appreciate  that the operation  of a with-
profits fund might appear to be unclear to a plan holder, such  as Mr B. And it can be difficult 
to understand  how much  a policy is worth at any given time, how a value has been 
calculated and if bonuses  have been fairly applied. 
With-profits providers such as Prudential do have quite a bit of discretion about how they run 
their with profits fund.  Having said that, Prudential  cant operate  in an arbitrary manner and 
is accountable  to the industry regulator as to how it manages its with-profits  funds. And 
Prudential does have  to manage its with-profits fund in line with rules  and guidance  set out 
by the regulator. 
Im not aware the regulator  has found any problems or raised  any concerns about how 
Prudential has managed its with-profits fund. So although I do understand Mr Bs concerns, 
Ive not seen enough evidence to show that its done anything wrong in the way it has 
calculated the value of Mr Bs policy  and applied bonuses to it.
Also as the level of bonuses is not guaranteed I dont consider the business has failed to 
fulfil any contractual  promises or acted incorrectly in the bonuses rates it has applied to 
Mr Bs plan.  I note it has provided  Mr B with information as to the rate of bonuses  that have 
historically been applied to his plan. 
Information requests  and customer  service issues
Mr B has complained about customer service issues over the course  of the last two years or 
so. He says the business has failed to call him back and failed to provide him with 
information. He also says the business  has refused to provide  any further response to his 
complaint and has not taken into account screen  shots he has provided.  
I can see that there have  been a number of phone calls and letters  between  Mr B and 
Prudential since 2016. I can also see that Prudential has followed up calls and responded to 
Mr B by letter and has provided  information  to him about his plan on a number  of occasions. 
While I appreciate Mr B would prefer to have  been  called back I dont think it is unreasonable  
in the circumstances for Prudential to provide explanations in writing. I think the difficulty is 
that Mr B doesnt accept  the explanations that have  been given by Prudential. This is what  I 
think has ultimately led to Prudential saying it wont respond to his complaint any further. 
I note that Mr B provided Prudential with screen shots of his plan and in particular the 
notional value of the plan.  The screen  shots  show fluctuations  in the notional transfer value 
but this is not something which is unusual for the reasons Prudential has explained. So it 
didnt feel that information took the matter  any further.
I can see from the correspondence that Mr B asked Prudential for information and in 
particular for records of telephone contact. Prudential has already provided Mr B with 
relevant correspondence. In January  2019 it asked Mr B to contact a particular department 
and make a Data Subject  Access  Request. It also asked him to provide clarification as to 
whether he was asking  for particular calls on specific dates. Prudential repeated this in a 
second letter. 
Ref: DRN09798105Mr B hasnt responded to Prudential with a request  for a particular phone conversation or 
given any further  detail about  the telephone contact. So Im not persuaded there is likely to 
be any evidence in the telephone calls between Mr B and Prudential that is relevant to the 
crux of this complaint  which is about the fluctuations to the value of his plan. 
Prudential hasnt refused Mr Bs request  for information. In fact it has already supplied him 
with correspondence.  But it has asked Mr B to direct  his request  to a particular department 
and it has asked for further clarification to try to narrow down which information he requires. 
So I think that is a matter that is still ongoing between Mr B and Prudential.  I would  hope  that 
it can be resolved fairly simply. However, if Mr B does have a complaint about a data subject 
access request that would constitute  a new complaint  and something  that would need to be 
raised with Prudential. If the matter is not resolved it may ultimately  be best directed to the 
Information Commissioner.
Additional contributions
Mr B says Prudential tried to entice  him to make additional contributions  to his pension  
plans. 
Prudential provided  Mr B with annual  statements  for his pension plan. In that documentation  
there was some discussion about  whether  Mr B had sufficient pension  provision in place. A 
top up form was also provided to Mr B which set out options of increasing regular 
contributions or making a lump sum payment. 
Although this correspondence  was addressed  specifically to Mr B the content was fairly 
general in nature and I dont think it could be considered to be advice. I think it was more of 
a suggestion of something  Mr B might want to consider. I think Prudential  made  it clear  in 
the documentation that it hadnt given any advice in relation to the pension plan and there 
was a clear suggestion  that the plan holder,  Mr B, should seek financial advice if unsure 
about the suitability of the pension. 
I consider the information provided  by Prudential with his annual statements gave Mr B the 
option to increase his contribution should he wish to do so. But Im not persuaded that any 
specific enticement was offered by Prudential  to pursue that option.  
Mr B contacted Prudential  in 2013  and 2016.  In 2013 he asked for information about making 
a transfer in and in 2016 about  making a lump  sum payment. Prudential said it wouldnt 
provide an illustration for the transfer in unless Mr B could show  he had received advice. 
Mr B complained to Prudential about  its refusal to provide an illustration and it responded to 
that complaint.
In 2016 Prudential did provide Mr B with illustrations  and figures  for three scenarios; 
stopping his regular  contributions,  carrying on his regular  contributions  to retirement  date at 
the same  amount and frequency and making a lump sum payment. 
Mr B has pointed  out the figures provided by Prudential showed he was better off carrying on 
paying his regular contributions rather than stopping them and making a lump  sum payment. 
Mr B has also pointed  out that the lump sum payment was treated as a new annuity and was 
therefore subject  to higher charges. 
Ref: DRN09798106The information provided by Prudential to Mr B had to be clear, fair and not misleading. I 
think the information in the illustrations and annual statements provided by Prudential  
enabled Mr B to look and see whether he was better off carrying on with his regular 
contributions or making a lump sum payment. Using these documents  Mr B could compare 
what he could receive under  both scenarios. I also note the covering letter  sent with two of 
the illustrations expressly set out the different amounts depending  on whether Mr B 
continued making his regular  contributions or stopped contributions which  I consider enabled 
Mr B to make a comparison. 
There was also a warning  in the note section of the annual statement about the effect of 
stopping Mr Bs regular  contributions. It said:
Important information
The Guaranteed Pension is the amount guaranteed by your policy, which on retirement at 
the specified retirement date would be payable yearly in arrears throughout life. There are 
alternative ways your pension can be paid, details  of which  will be provided  on retirement.
The yearly  bonus  to date is the increase in Guaranteed  Pension on account  of bonuses 
already declared.
It must be emphasised that on regular premium paying policies the Guaranteed Pension, 
yearly bonus and the illustrated pension(s) quoted are calculated  on the basis  that premiums  
are maintained at the current rate until the specified  date.  If premiums  are discontinued 
before then, these  amounts will be reduced  in accordance  with the terms and conditions  of 
the contract.
Lump sum payment
Mr B has complained about the charges that would have  been applied if he had made  an 
additional contribution by way of a lump  sum.  But I dont think those charges were  hidden 
from Mr B. The illustration  for the lump sum payment set out what the deductions were for 
and their impact on the investment return.  It said:
What are the deductions for?
The deductions include  the cost of expenses, charges, implicit costs or charges for any 
guarantees and other adjustments. The figures  also demonstrate  the effects of inflation.
The deductions will have the effect  of reducing your investment  growth. This is called the 
'Reduction in Yield' and can be a useful means of comparing the charges of different 
pension products.
The illustration for the single lump sum payment also said:
If you are in any doubt as to the suitability of this transaction, you should seek  the advice  of 
a Financial Adviser.
Ref: DRN09798107I appreciate Mr B would  have liked Prudential to have given him more  information about the 
advantages and disadvantages  of each option. But Prudential wasnt acting as his adviser- it 
wasnt advising Mr B to pay a lump sum or to increase his regular contributions.  Prudential 
was responding  to requests for information made  by Mr B about the different options he 
might pursue. I consider sufficient information  was provided for Mr B to make a comparison 
for the reasons I have  already outlined. In fact Mr B, having been provided  with that 
information did make  that comparison and decided  he was better off carrying on with his 
regular contributions. 
I note Prudential didnt  give Mr B any specific information about increasing his regular 
contributions (as opposed to a lump  sum) as it wasnt asked  to do so. 
Overall, Im not persuaded on balance that Prudential misled Mr B in relation  to making 
additional contributions or gave him information that was unclear or unfair. 
I am also not persuaded that making a lump sum payment wouldve ended Mr Bs original 
plan. I think it was clear from the paperwork provided to Mr B that this single payment would 
buy a separate  annuity. 
Changes to the terms and conditions 
Mr B says that the terms and conditions of his plan have changed to his detriment. He says 
he took out a pension  plan that was flexible  and allowed increased contributions  which would 
add value to the plan.  Whereas Mr B says it is not now possible for him to enhance  his plan 
by making additional contributions. 
Mr B and the business have provided term and conditions for Mr Bs plan. There is some  
difference in the wording of the terms and conditions. But overall they appear to be slightly  
different versions  of the same document. Crucially I dont think  there is any marked  or 
significant difference in what is said about  the benefits provided  under the plan and any 
additional contributions.  
Benefits under the plan
The terms and conditions  say:
The Policyholder named in the Schedule  has contracted with The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited  (in this policy called 'the Company') for the grant  of such of the two 
Benefits described  in this policy as are stated  in the Schedule to apply on the terms 
contained in this policy and on the basis of the proposal (and any supplementary proposal or 
memorandum) signed  by the Policyholder.
They also say: 
The Benefits which apply  to the Policyholder are specified in the Schedule and only where 
both Benefits are stated  to apply will the whole of this policy  be applicable.
There is a description of the benefits  provided  by the plan. In relation to the annuity  it says:
Ref: DRN09798108An annuity  (in this policy called the Standard Annuity) which shall consist  of an annuity of the 
basic amount stated in the Schedule increased  by 25p per £100 in respect  of each complete 
month between the Policyholders  anniversary of birth immediately before the Specified Date 
and the Specified  Date. There shall be added to the Standard Annuity any further amount 
that may apply by way of bonus as stated in Clause  4 on Page RP2 (hereinafter called 
'Clause 4')
Prudential has said the original basic annuity was purchased at the beginning of the policy  
and was specified in the policy  schedule. It has said that the rate by which a premium 
purchases a basic annuity  does not form part of the terms  and conditions.
I consider the agreement  between Mr B and Prudential was that Mr B would pay a regular 
contribution (or premium)  of a specified amount for a set number of years in return  for a 
guaranteed basic  annuity  and some non-guaranteed benefits.  The amount of the basic  
annuity was set out in the policy schedule. 
The option  to make additional  contributions is contained within  the terms and conditions so 
the flexibility Mr B refers to does  exist. But there  is no promise about  what  return any 
additional contributions will provide  or what rate will be used to calculate this. In both 
versions of this document it says the amount by which the basic  annuity will be varied  shall 
be determined by Prudential.
Prudential has said any additional contributions will purchase a new basic annuity. It has 
said the amount  of that basic annuity is dependent on the rates that Prudential  are offering at 
that time to its policyholders (of these deferred annuity pension  contracts), and the age of 
the policyholder,  whether the payment is regular or a single lump sum. 
So it says for these reasons different types of premium  payment made  at different times will 
secure different  basic annuities that will attract  different guaranteed and non-guaranteed 
bonuses.
Prudential has also said that investment  growth  rates have changed and it cannot now offer 
the same  guaranteed basic annuities as it did when Mr B took out this pension plan. In 
addition annuity  rates are now much lower than they were  when the plan was taken  out.
I consider the contract between Prudential and Mr B is based on his original regular 
contribution and the guaranteed basic annuity  as set out in his policy  schedule.  Whilst the 
contract allows for additional contributions  Im not persuaded  on balance that it gives any 
promise about the rate at which additional contributions  will purchase an annuity. So Im not 
persuaded that Prudential  has changed  the terms and conditions of the plan in respect of the 
additional contributions.
Mr B feels  it isnt possible to enhance his plan by making additional contributions.  Prudential 
has said it is possible to do so by increasing his regular contributions.  If Mr B wants  to 
explore this further he may want to ask Prudential for some illustrations to give him a better 
idea of what could  potentially be achieved. But that is of course  a matter for Mr B.
Ref: DRN09798109my final decision
My final decision is that Mr Bs complaint against  Prudential Assurance Company Limited is 
not upheld for the reasons  outlined in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.  
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0979810