K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Lombard North Central  PLC refused to let him reject a car.
background
In May 2018  Mr C bought a second  hand car which cost £60,000 of which £50,000  was 
funded by a conditional  sale agreement with Lombard. It was some 17 months old and had 
done 6,700 miles. Within a matter of days he encountered  problems  with the car and he 
says the dealer, which was located  a considerable distance from Mr C, suggested  he take it 
to a local dealer.  He took the car to a reputable main dealer, which I will call H, and it 
identified a number  of faults. 
I gather  it has spent some 101 days in the garage  in 2018. Mr C contacted  Lombard  in May 
2018 and after a relatively lengthy exchange of correspondence  it offered  him a goodwill 
payment of £1,585.30 towards  his costs.
The faults reported to the dealer  were as follows:
Blind spot alert not working
Front near side door rattling
Phone function memory not working
SD card function not  working
Steering wheel vibration on braking
Charging warning light showing
The complaint was brought to this service where it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommended  it be upheld. He reviewed  Mr Cs testimony and the report  
from H. Latterly Lombard suggested  the car be subject to an independent inspection, but Mr 
C refused and said the evidence from H was sufficient. 
He noted one of the issues raised was a drive line clonk when accelerating  and decelerating 
at 70mph. These issues were also mentioned in the reports from H in October and January 
along with issues  with the tyres, suspension and the seats.
He saw that H had attempted a number of fixes, but they didnt appear to have worked  as Mr 
C maintained that there were problems which needed rectifying.  Hs latest report  in January 
2019 commented on four areas;  the knocking  suspension, the thud/clunk  from the driveline, 
vibration from the steering and seats,  rear tyre treads. It found no issue  with the vibration. 
They did however acknowledge a knock from the rear suspension, and a thud/clunk at 
motorway speeds which they advised  was present  on a like for like vehicle.
He recognised the reports were not entirely clear, and that there wasnt  a great  deal of 
physical evidence backing them up, but he thought  there  was enough evidence that H had 
acknowledged the problems and these  werent  issues a reasonable person would expect to 
be present on a vehicle of this age and value. He concluded here was a problem with Mr Cs 
vehicle.
He suggested  Mr C be allowed to reject the car and have his deposit returned  along with 
75% of the payments he had made.
Ref: DRN09018022Neither party agreed. Mr C said all his payment should be returned  along with a range of 
expenditure including storage costs, insurance and tax. Lombard  said the reports from H 
didnt show there was a fault and the various issues had been  noted as advisories. It also 
said that Mr C hadnt  allowed  the seller to address the faults. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where necessary and / or appropriate, I 
reach my decision on a balance of probabilities   that is, what I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the wider  surrounding 
circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Lombard is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible  for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
This is not a clear  cut matter and I have given a great deal of thought to my decision. The 
difference in views is best summarised  by Hs comments  that the manufacturer is not able to 
offer any fixes for the problem Mr C raised  and a note from the dealer  supplied by Lombard  
which states that  the vehicle is not presenting  any operating anomalies and is currently 
performing to within manufacturer's  specification.
However, I would  first address the suggestion that Mr C didnt allow the seller the opportunity  
to deal with the initial  faults.  Mr C has supplied  a series of text exchanges  from May 2018 
which show that the seller  suggested  he take the car to local approved  dealer to look at the 
problems. As such I am satisfied the actions he took, including  notifying Lombard of the 
problems were reasonable. 
As for the issue of an independent report I am not convinced that this would make any 
significant difference. The car has been inspected by a reputable dealer approved by the 
manufacturer and I am satisfied its reports are independent. I also think the time has passed  
for such a report. I think it would have been  prudent of Lombard to have initiated one when 
Ref: DRN09018023Mr C raised his concerns  early on. It seems  to have delayed matters and it took some time 
for it to offer a goodwill gesture.
I understand a number  of the problems  raised initially by Mr C were  addressed,  but it seems 
to me that the key issue centres  on the thudding  sound from the car on acceleration and 
deceleration.
In October  2018 H reported: As per complaint on previous visit of thud from rear on throttle  
application, I have  carried out downloading the alternative engine  software .
In November 2018 H reported that  Thud from transmission- Original  ECM software to be 
installed and check of the rear subframe bushes while on road test.
In January 2019 H confirmed there  was a knocking  sound from the rear and said:  confirmed 
the same  noise as before  coming from the LHR shock  as before. The noise was quieter 
before, but now sounds like how it was originally.
At the same time it noted there was a thud/clunk from the drive  line on acceleration  / 
deceleration at motorway speeds, but this was the same on a like for like vehicle.
It seems  that the argument put forward by Lombard and I presume supported  by the 
manufacturer is that this sound is acceptable.  I must  admit I find this odd that a very 
expensive vehicle should behave in such a manner  or that it be deemed to be acceptable.  I 
am satisfied  that H thought otherwise, at least initially, since  it sought  to remedy the matter.  
It also held the car for a considerable period of time while it tried to effect  a repair.  
I am satisfied that Mr C brought his concerns  to the attention of both the seller and Lombard  
within 30 days. Despite  the car being seen on several occasions by H and it holding  on to it 
for some time the car still suggest from the thudding  sound. I appreciate  Mr C has been  able 
to drive it when not in the garage  and he has had some use of it, but nonetheless  I dont  
believe it was fit for purpose. It was almost  new and had done a very low mileage and I 
would expect it to be in close to perfect  condition.
As I have mentioned  above Mr C has had use of the car and so it would not be right that I 
direct Lombard to return all his payments. I have considered his claim for the expenditure he 
has incurred. It was his choice to put the car in storage and I dont consider those costs  
should reimbursed.  Also as he has had use of the car it is only right that he pay for the cost 
of taxing and insuring the car. As for the other incidental costs I believe  these  are covered by 
the investigators suggestion that he receive  back 75% of his monthly  payments
Ref: DRN09018024my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Lombard North  Central  PLC to: 
allow Mr C to reject the vehicle and arrange  collection  of the car,
cancel the finance agreement,
refund  the deposit and 75% of the premiums  paid plus interest  at 8% simple from the 
date of payment  until the refund is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0901802