K820x#14summary and background of complaint 
Mr P says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him a payment  protection 
insurance policy (PPI).
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out to protect a store card in 
2002.
The PPI was sold to Mr P by a third party but FICL have accepted responsibility for this 
complaint. Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep  things  simple. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint  Ill explain  why.
Mr P cant  remember much about  the sale and this isnt surprising nor unusual given it took 
place over 16 years ago. 
FICL have  given me a copy of Mr Ps signed  1993  store card application.  And on it I can see 
Mr P has declined  PPI. But FICL  say PPI was added to Mr Ps store card on a phone  call in 
2002. 
FICL has little information about how these sales were conducted at that time. Where 
matters are unclear  and there isnt conclusive  evidence available,  I have to make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  the balance of probabilities.  
So given PPI was added  some nine years  after Mr P had his store  card, and based on what 
we know about  FICLs  telephone sales process  a little while after Mr Ps sales, I think its 
most likely FICL made him aware that he had a choice  about buying the PPI  and that he 
chose to take it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt  have  to check if it was suitable for him. 
But it did have to provide clear  information about  it.  
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But its unlikely  Mr P wouldve been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt  
cover. And based on what I know about  his circumstances, it looks like the policy  couldve  
been useful to him. So I dont think better  information wouldve stopped  him buying  it.
In saying the above, Ive noted what Mr P has said about having  twelve months full sick pay. 
Its quite unusual to get such a high level of sick pay, so because  of that our adjudicator 
asked Mr P for evidence  of this. Mr P isnt able to provide any  and this is understandable 
given the length of time since the sale took place. But without any evidence, I cant find that 
its most  likely he did.   
Ive taken into account Mr Ps comments,  including what  hes said about his savings. But 
given the amount he says he held at that time,  I still think  he wouldve found  the PPI useful. 
So these points dont  change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN03733032my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0373303