K820x#14complaint
Mr B1 and Mr B2 complain about  the amount they received when HSBC Bank Plc closed a 
joint currency account. To settle matters theyd like HSBC to pay compensation of the 
difference between  the closing balance in the account and the amount paid by HSBC  on 
closure.
background
Mr B1 and Mr B2 live abroad  and had a joint currency account with HSBC.  In dealing  with 
this complaint our service  has dealt mainly with Mr B1. However, the complaint is brought by 
both of them and my decision also applies to both of them.
In October  2017 HSBC  notified Mr B1 to say the account would be closed on 
15 January 2018.  This letter explained  that the closing balance would be converted  into 
sterling (GBP) using HSBCs  exchange  rate on that day and a GBP cheque  would be sent 
for the credit balance,  unless it received alternate instructions.
Mr B1 called  HSBC in mid-December 2017 and asked  for the closing balance  to be sent 
electronically to an overseas account.  But HSBC was unable to do this because  it wasnt  
able to verify his identity  and the closing  balance was a significant  amount.
So HSBC  suggested  alternatives. It said Mr B1 could send a signed letter to an HSBC 
branch in the UK and provide in that letter details of the account to which  the closing balance 
should be sent. Or he could visit an HSBC branch overseas with his passport and ask them  
to call HSBC in the UK to confirm his identity  had been verified overseas.
Mr B1 says he visited a branch overseas and was told to open  a local account.  But when he 
went to obtain  his account number  - to provide it to HSBC in the UK - he found  his (new) 
account had been closed  without reason.
When the account was closed HSBC  sent a cheque  in March 2018  for the closing balance  in 
GBP. Mr B1 says he never received this. So HSBC issued two further  cheques  which  
werent received  either. HSBC eventually transferred  the balance  electronically to an 
overseas account  as instructed by Mr B. The funds were sent in GBP. Mr B1 and Mr B2 
arent happy because the amount received  in the overseas  account  was significantly less 
than the closing balance.
When our investigator looked  into the complaint he didnt think HSBC had done anything  
wrong. He didnt have  any information  to show Mr B1 had taken  any further steps  to provide 
alternative payment  instructions to HSBC. And in the absence of any alternate instructions, 
he didnt think HSBC  was wrong to convert  the closing balance  into GBP and issue a 
cheque, as this is what  HSBC said would  happen  in the letter  it sent in October 2017.
In the investigators  opinion  the reason Mr B1 received less than he was expecting was due 
to the overseas beneficiary bank converting  the closing balance  it received from HSBC from 
GBP into the overseas  currency.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN02862762I must firstly explain that my decision will only look at whether HSBC is responsible for the 
difference in the amount  between the closing  balance due and the significantly lower amount 
that was received into the overseas account. I will not address the issue  of the delay in 
paying the closing balance as this has already been dealt with as a separate complaint by 
this service.
Following Mr B1s initial phone  call to HSBC  in December 2017, HSBC  wasnt able to send 
the closing balance to his chosen overseas account  as it couldnt verify his identity.  HSBC  
suggested different  ways  for Mr B1 to be verified to allow an electronic transfer.  But after this 
initial call, I havent  seen anything to suggest that Mr B1 took any further steps to provide 
HSBC with alternative instructions for sending the closing balance  to him.
Because HSBC  didnt  receive any alternative instructions from Mr B1, it converted the 
closing balance into GBP  at the exchange rate that applied on the 15 January 2018  being  
the date HSBC had advised the account would be closed. HSBC  then issued a cheque in 
GBP for the closing  balance.
I cant fairly say HSBC did anything wrong here as it was doing what it said it would as itd 
explained in the closure letter it sent in October 2017.
Further problems followed when Mr B1 didnt receive the cheque HSBC  had sent on more 
than one occasion. So eventually it was agreed  that HSBC would send  the closing balance  
to Mr B1s chosen overseas account by electronic transfer  as HSBC was satisfied  about  
Mr B1s identity  following his complaint to this service. HSBC  then sent the closure funds to 
by electronic transfer in GBP to the overseas account Mr B1 had nominated. The balance 
was for the same amount  as the cheques  it had previously sent.
Ive seen a copy  of HSBCs payment instruction.  This shows that HSBC  sent the closing 
balance in GBP.  The closing balance was converted by HSBC  into GBP at the rate that 
applied on 15 January 2018.
HSBC sent the closing  balance in GBP and Im satisfied that the financial loss arose due to 
the overseas recipient bank converting the GBP  amount it received from HSBC  into the 
overseas currency. And the exchange rate applied by the overseas bank wasnt something  
HSBC had any control over.
Im sympathetic to the position  Mr B1 and Mr B2 find themselves in but I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr B1 asked for the money to be sent in the overseas currency. So I cant 
fairly find that HSBC  is responsible for the lower  amount received.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B1 and Mr B2 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0286276