K820x#14Complaint
Mrs H has complained about the changes that Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS)  made to its 
overdraft pricing structure and further changes it wishes to make  to her overdraft facility  
going forwards. 
Background
In the summer  of 2017, BOS announced  it would be changing its overdraft pricing  structure 
in November 2017. It was moving  from a pricing  model which charged a fixed fee per day for 
borrowing within a certain limit to one where  it would charge 1p a day for every £7 borrowed. 
Mrs H complained to BOS after these changes were  implemented,  as she was unhappy her 
overdraft was costing  her more to use. BOS didnt  uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. It said it was 
entitled to change its pricing structure  and while this meant some customers  might end up 
paying more, it had transitional arrangements in place  to mitigate this and as a result of this 
refunded all the charges Mrs H paid in the six months after the change  was introduced. It 
also told Mrs H that as she was using a personal overdraft facility for commercial purposes,  
she needed to get in contact to arrange  a more appropriate product. Mrs H remained  
dissatisfied and referred  her complaint  to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mrs Hs concerns and eventually  concluded that BOS  
hadnt done anything wrong  or treated Mrs H unfairly. So she didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mrs H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further,  I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So 
while Mrs H is unhappy at the increase in BOS overdraft interest  rate, Im afraid that this 
isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said,  while Im not looking at BOS charging structure changes per se, it wont  have 
acted fairly  and reasonably towards  Mrs H if it implemented these changes  unfairly.  So Ive 
considered whether BOS treated Mrs H fairly  and reasonably  when it implemented  these 
changes on her overdraft.  
I dont think that BOS did treat Mrs H unfairly here though. I say this because it refunded 
some of the fees on Mrs H account  and suspended them for a period going forward.  This 
was to provide  Mrs H with the breathing space to make alternative arrangements better  
suited to her commercial borrowing needs. So, in this case,  I think  that BOS  took reasonable 
steps to mitigate  the risk of Mrs H becoming  an overdraft prisoner  in other  words,  it took 
reasonable steps to try and make  sure she wasnt locked into accepting the increased 
charges due to having an existing balance she was unable to clear or make inroads into. 
Ref: DRN07823282I know that Mrs H is unhappy BOS isnt prepared to continue  offering her an overdraft on the 
same terms  as it did previously. But I dont  agree  with Mrs H when she says she was 
provided with a facility  to use in perpetuity. Even though BOS  may not have chosen to make 
any changes until November 2017,  it always retained the right to amend or revoke Mrs Hs 
facility provided it gave the appropriate notice. Im satisfied  that it did this here. And even  
then a bank is under an obligation to monitor a customers repayment  record  and act should  
an overdraft appear to be being used  unsustainably. 
Ive noted Mrs Hs concern about  the difficulty shes had arranging  a meeting to discuss  
matters with BOS given the current situation.  And while shes  concerned that she may not be 
able to get matters  resolved once this decision  is issued,  she may be entitled to complain to 
BOS about this should it fail to agree an alternative more suited to her commercial borrowing 
needs with her.   
Overall bearing in mind  all of the circumstances, I dont think that BOS did anything  wrong 
when changing  its overdraft pricing  structure and I dont think  that it treated Mrs H unfairly  
when implementing  the changes on her overdraft  either. So it follows that Im not upholding 
this complaint.    
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0782328