K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc didnt help him when  he was in financial difficulties.
background
Mr S tells us hes spent hours on the phone trying  to sort out his financial difficulties but no-
one tried to help him. Hes concerned that Santander gave him an overdraft  when he was 
desperate but this made matters worse.  Hes now struggling with the overdraft. And hes 
having problems  making his rent payments because Santander didnt prioritise  these  over 
his direct debits. He asked his parents  for £1,000 to help him clear this but the money  just 
got swallowed  up.
Santander said Mr S called it in December 2019.  Its agent noted that his account was 
overdrawn and offered to help him. It said it could give him an overdraft and Mr S said this 
would suit his needs over other borrowing options.  It said all the key features and the terms 
and conditions of the overdraft were  explained  to Mr S. He accepted these  and asked for 
£1,250 before it applied  the overdraft  on 19 December 2018. 
Our investigator didnt  think Santander  had done  anything wrong. He said he couldnt  find 
any issues with how the overdraft offer was dealt with. And he didnt think  Santander had 
done anything  wrong in the order it paid the direct debits and standing orders.  He looked at 
the difficulties  Mr S had with getting in touch  with the relevant department but noted that this 
was about Santanders internal processes which, he said,  this Service  couldnt comment on.
Mr S wasnt  happy with the investigators view. He said the number of phone  calls he had to 
make and the amount of time he spent on the phone hadnt been taken into consideration. 
He said he was panicking  and asking for help but he didnt get it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S was having some financial problems  when he phoned Santander in December 2018. 
During the course of that call the agent  offered him an overdraft facility which he agreed  to 
accept. Mr S tells us that this made his financial situation worse. 
Ive listened to the phone call where the overdraft was discussed but I dont find that 
Santander did anything  wrong when it offered Mr S this facility. The agent  initially  offered to 
put Mr S through to its collections  team to put a plan in place to pay the overdrawn balance  
on his account  but Mr S said he didnt want that because he was considering going to a debt 
advice organisation. The agent  then asked him if he wanted to consider an arranged  
overdraft facility. The agent explained to Mr S about  the implications of having  this overdraft 
and he said it would  suit him because it would  just be a temporary measure until he sorted  
himself out. In those  circumstances I dont think Santander did anything wrong.
Mr S says this has made his financial situation  worse and he borrowed £1,000 to pay the 
overdraft off but it was just swallowed up. But I cant see that Santander was responsible 
for how Mr S used this money.
Ref: DRN01032672At the beginning  of April 2019 Mr Ss difficulties were increasing and he phoned Santander. 
He was worried Santander hadnt  paid the standing order for his rent despite paying  other,  
less important, direct debits. Santander said it hadnt made any mistake  about the order in 
which it paid the direct debits. And it seems to me that its right in coming to that conclusion.  
But I think the main crux of Mr Ss complaint is that he was asking for help and he didnt  
think he was getting it.
Ive listened to that phone call and I could hear how frustrated he was but I cant  see 
Santander has made any mistake with the order of payments. Mr S was clearly worried 
about his financial  difficulties and he spent a long time on the phone on that Saturday. His 
frustration increased when he realised he couldnt speak to the relevant department on a 
Saturday. But the last agent he spoke to that day tried to help him as much  as she could  and 
arranged for the collections  team to phone  him after work the following Monday. Santander 
did that and offered him advice before the call ended. The department tried to call him back 
but there wasnt any reply. 
When a bank knows someone is in financial difficulties it has a duty to act positively and 
sympathetically. For the reasons given above I think its done that for Mr S. I know he will be 
disappointed with my decision but I cant fairly find the bank has done anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0103267