K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The PPI was taken out in 2002 when he applied for a new credit  
card. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already told Mr H that they didnt think his mis-sale complaint 
should be upheld.  However, Halifax has since offered to give back  to Mr H some of the cost 
of the PPI. 
Mr H has asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs mis-sale complaint.
Mr H is represented by a company  in this complaint. Through the company, he says he 
never agreed to the PPI and wasnt told much  about it. 
However, weve seen  a few similar  sales to this and as a consequence, we now know quite 
a bit about how the processes normally worked  and the type of paperwork that was used 
during the course of these  particular  sales. We know, for example, that consumers usually  
spoke with a Halifax adviser to discuss  their requirements and as a result of that discussion 
a credit agreement was then drawn up for the consumer to check and sign.
Mr H says this was a postal application. But Halifaxs records  show  it took place at his local 
branch. I think this is right because we were sent a copy of Mr Hs credit agreement  which  is 
consistent with other  branch sales Ive seen.  And on his agreement I can see a box about 
PPI was selected on the form, so I think the PPI being chosen  in this way would have been 
done as a result of the conversation Ive mentioned above. Mr H also signed  the agreement, 
so I think this shows he asked for the cover.
Its also my experience that Halifax described  PPI charges as credit  card repayments 
insurance on the monthly statements  that were sent to consumers. It sent me an example of 
Mr Hs statements which showed he was charged  in this way. I think  if he hadnt asked for 
the PPI he would have wanted  to know what the charges were for. Mr H was also sent or 
given a welcome letter about the PPI and we were sent a copy of this. 
So whilst this was all quite a long time ago, I think theres strong evidence Halifax got Mr Hs 
consent for the PPI and he wouldve been able to see it had been set up on his account.  
Halifax concedes this was probably an advised sale. This means it had a duty to make  sure 
the PPI was suitable for Mr H. I think it was.
Ref: DRN04712312This is because I think Mr H was eligible for the PPI and I dont think that hed have been 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. The monthly cost of 
the policy was 78p per £100 of the outstanding  balance which  was comparable with similar 
policies I know were  sold around that time.  Ive got no evidence to suggest this was 
unaffordable for Mr H. 
Mr H says he got sick pay with his job at the time.  But I think  this would have been  quite 
moderate and it doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt  of any use. In the event of a 
successful claim, the PPI could have paid out 10% of his outstanding credit  card balance for 
up to a year. So having very carefully  considered everything Mr H has told us, overall I think  
the policy was suitable for him.
Halifax also had a duty to make  sure the information it provided was clear enough for Mr H 
to make an informed decision.  He says it wasnt and I obviously  cant say he was told 
everything he should have been told. But as Ive said, I think there would have been a 
discussion about the policy and how it worked.  I also note Mr Hs welcome  letter explained a 
bit about the PPI. 
Finally, the company representing Mr H sent us quite  a few reasons why it thought  the policy 
was mis-sold. Ive looked at all these carefully  but I found them inconsistent.  They included 
references to him being based  abroad  and his health at the time of the sale. I looked 
carefully at all these things but there  is evidence that contradicts them.  I dont consider they 
change anything. All this means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax doesnt therefore need to refund everything Mr H 
paid for it. But its offered  to give him back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think  it needs 
to do anything more.  Bank of Scotland Plc will make arrangements to pay Mr H now Ive 
issued my final decision, if it hasnt already done  so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about the mis-sale. I dont 
direct Bank of Scotland  Plc to do anything more  than the above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0471231