K820x#14complaint
Mrs H had a mortgage  with Barclays Bank UK PLC. She complained that the bank:
-didnt tell her she could make extra payments to the mortgage;
-wouldnt extend the time it had given her to sell the property;  and
-incorrectly sent a letter  saying shed refused a viewing.
Mrs H, represented by her husband, wants more compensation than Barclays has paid her. 
She says shed have  got £50,000  from the proceeds  of the sale,  instead of the £42,000 she 
did get.
 
background
Mrs H had a mortgage  in her sole name, which had a mortgage current account. Shed used 
this, and when  the mortgage term ended in October  2017, there was an outstanding  balance 
of around £52,000.
Mr and Mrs H had decided to sell the property, and had had it on the market  for three 
months. Mrs H was in a debt management plan with a debt charity. When  the mortgage  term 
ended, there  were  discussions  with Barclays. Barclays said Mrs H could have a grace period 
of 12 months, if she provided  details  of income  and expenditure and came to a payment 
arrangement. In a phone call, Mr H, representing  his wife, went through a detailed income 
and expenditure  review.  This showed  that Mrs H had disposable income  of £311.20 a 
month. Barclays set up a payment arrangement for £100 less than this, in line with its policy.  
So it was agreed  Mrs H would pay £211.20 a month and Barclays  would review  the 
arrangement and the progress of the sale every three months.
Mrs H found a buyer for her property, but the buyer dropped out in early  summer 2018. Mrs 
H put it back on the market.  
In late June, Barclays carried out its second quarterly review of the payment arrangement.  
The estate  agent  refused  to speak to Barclays, and the bank sent a standard  letter  to Mrs H. 
This said that the estate agent  had told Barclays that progress on the sale had been  slow, 
and that Mrs H had refused  a viewing from a potential buyer without trying to reschedule.  
The letter was contradictory because it also said the estate agent had refused to speak to 
Barclays. The letter asked Mrs H to reschedule the viewing and said that if she did so, the 
arrangement would continue and would  be reviewed in another  three months.
Mrs H rang Barclays  when  she got this letter, because it had worried  her. She was afraid the 
property would be possessed. Barclays adviser apologised and said that the letter had just 
been to tell her there was an issue with the estate agent refusing to talk to the bank.  Shed  
also had a replacement  full-price  offer for the property, which she hoped  would  go through.
Mrs Hs property sale completed  a couple of months later, and the money Mrs H still owed 
Barclays was paid off.
In November 2018, Mrs H complained  to Barclays. She said theyd offered to pay £600 a 
month under the arrangement, rather than the £211.30 they did pay. And she complained 
about the review  letter  which Barclays had sent in June. 
Ref: DRN00935912Barclays said that as the mortgage had been  in Mrs Hs sole name, the payment 
arrangement could only take her financial situation  into account. On the basis of what 
Barclays had been told, it couldnt  have set up the arrangement for more than £211.30. 
Barclays also said that in a phone call on 2 November 2017,  it had said that it might be 
possible to pay more.
But the bank did apologise for the incorrect information in the review  letter,  and the poor 
service it had provided. It sent Mrs H a cheque for £400.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied and, represented  by her husband Mr H, complained  to this service. Mr 
H said they could  have afforded more than the £211.30 payment plan, because  Mrs H was 
working and had pension income  as well. Theyd been paying £650  a month without 
difficulty, when  theyd been paying the main  mortgage. Mr H said that if Mrs H had been 
allowed to make overpayments, shed have  received  well over £50,000 from the house  sale 
 and instead, shed only received £42,000.
The adjudicator said that in an income and expenditure discussion, it was up to the customer  
to make sure the bank  had a true picture of their finances. And the adjudicator  thought that if 
Mrs H hadnt been allowed  to pay as much as she could  afford,  she could have saved that 
money.
The adjudicator also thought Barclays hadnt done  anything wrong  by refusing to extend  the 
grace period by five weeks, when Mrs Hs first buyer had dropped out. He said the bank had 
shown consideration by agreeing to the 12 month grace period. He recognised that Mrs H 
said shed felt pressured to accept a lower price because of this deadline, but didnt think this 
was Barclays fault. He agreed that the second review letter had been wrong to say Mrs H 
had refused a viewing  and he considered  £400  compensation had been  fair for this.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes listening to the phone  call in 
October 2017 when  the income  and expenditure was discussed and the payment  
arrangement was set up.
complaint that Barclays didnt tell Mrs H she could make extra payments to the mortgage
The phone call in which the payment arrangement was set up was over an hour long,  and 
went into lots of detail.  So I find that Barclays took care to obtain  full information about  Mrs 
Hs income and expenditure. From the information  which was provided,  Barclays found that 
Mrs Hs disposable income was £311.20.  In line with its policy,  it set a plan for £100 less 
than this, ie £211.20.
As the mortgage  was in Mrs Hs sole name,  it wouldnt have been right to take Mr Hs 
income into account. And Mrs H was in a debt management plan with a debt charity at the 
time. 
Mr H, on behalf of Mrs H, has told this service  that Mrs H had three pensions being  paid to 
her at the time. But Ive listened to the call in which the income  and expenditure was 
discussed, and Barclays did ask about a number of different types  of income.  Mr H, who Mrs 
Ref: DRN00935913H had authorised to act for him, gave Mrs Hs full-time pay figure.  The adviser asked if there  
was any other income and Mr H said no. The adviser also specifically asked about any 
pensions or pension funds. Mr H answered no to the questions  about whether Mrs H had 
any of these.  
The focus of the call was to decide  what Mrs H would  be able to afford in terms of a payment 
arrangement to help her while  she was waiting for the property sale to go through.  She was 
on a debt management plan, and owed  the bank around £52,000 which  shed built up over 
time, and couldnt  pay off. So I dont consider Barclays was wrong  for not asking Mrs H to 
pay more. It had carried out a detailed investigation  into her income and expenditure and 
was entitled to rely on what it had been  told about Mrs Hs financial situation.
From the banks notes  of a later call in November, it appears that the issue  of paying  more 
did arise,  though its not clear what was said. I dont have that phone  call. But if the detailed  
information provided a few days  before about Mrs Hs financial situation was accurate, she 
couldnt have  afforded  more.
Ive also considered whether there  was any disadvantage to Mrs H, even if she had asked to 
pay more and Barclays had refused.   
Mr H says they could  have paid around  £650 a month instead of the £211.30 a month they 
did pay. Thats around £400  more  for 12 months, which is £4,800.  Mrs H says that because 
she wasnt allowed to pay the higher  figure, she lost £8,000 when her property was sold. I 
dont see that the arithmetic  adds up. And if Mrs H had a spare  £400  a month, she could 
have saved this so shed still have had the £4,800 at the end. So there couldnt have been a 
loss. I recognise that Mrs H may have decided to spend that spare  £400  each month  instead  
of saving it, but that would  have been her choice, and not Barclays  fault. So I dont agree 
that Ms H lost £8,000.
complaint that Barclays wouldnt  extend  the time it had given Mrs H to sell the property
Mrs H believes  that Barclays should have agreed  to her request to extend  the 12 month 
grace period by five weeks, which was the time theyd spent on a potential buyer who 
dropped out. Lenders are required to treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically, and I find that Barclays had met this by extending  the time to pay by 12 
months. It wasnt  required to extend this because a buyer dropped  out  that wasnt  the 
banks fault.
complaint that Barclays incorrectly sent a letter saying shed refused a viewing.
Barclays shouldnt have  sent its second review  letter of 26 June  2018.  It said Mrs H had 
refused a viewing  and hadnt tried to reschedule,  which  wasnt  accurate. The letter was also 
contradictory, because  it said that the estate agent had told Barclays that progress on the 
sale was slow  and also said that the estate  agent wouldnt speak to Barclays.  So I can 
understand why Mrs H was upset  about  this. The letter is firmly worded so its 
understandable that shed have been  worried that the extension to the time to pay might  be 
withdrawn and the property might  be possessed.  
I find that it was right for Barclays to pay Mrs H compensation for the distress which this 
caused her. I consider that £400 is a fair and reasonable  figure for this. Barclays  has already 
paid this to Mrs H, so I dont require it to do more.
Ref: DRN00935914my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint  for additional  compensation from 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0093591