K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Miss B are unhappy with the increases in their premiums on their home insurance 
policy held with St Andrews Insurance Plc (StAIP).
background
In March 2007, Mr L and Miss B took out a home  insurance policy  underwritten  by StAIP. It 
provided Mr L and Miss B with buildings and contents insurance cover  with accidental 
damage. The policy also included  legal expenses cover.
Mr L and Miss Bs policy initially cost £275.12 for the year. The policys cost increased over 
the years  and in March  2018, Mr L and Miss Bs annual renewal premium was to cost 
£1,097.69 for the year. 
In November 2018, Mr L contacted StAIP to review the policy and to see if StAIP could 
reduce the cost. StAIP was unable to reduce the cost, explaining that Mr L and Miss B lived 
in a high  flood risk area.
Mr L and Miss B cancelled  the policy mid-term in November 2018 (having paid £787.95).
Mr L and Miss B considered they lived in an area that was at low risk of flooding  and didnt 
agree with StAIPs risk assessment. Mr L and Miss B obtained alternative insurance with a 
different provider for around £150  for the year.
Unhappy, Mr L and Miss B complained to StAIP. Because  of the difference in cost,  Mr L and 
Miss B didnt think they had been  treated fairly by StAIP.  They say they were charged  too 
much and should be reimbursed for the extra they considered they had paid over the years.
StAIP looked into Mr L and Miss Bs concerns.  Broadly summarised it said that the 
premiums charged over the years were correct.  It also explained that part of the reason for 
the increase was in relation to the insurance premium tax (IPT) increases that happened 
since 2007.
Unhappy with StAIPs response, Mr L and Miss B referred the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and didnt think  it should be upheld.  They  
explained that when Mr L and Miss B took out the policy, it included an initial  discount  which  
StAIP recouped  in the early years.
They also looked  to see whether Mr L and Miss B had engaged with StAIP  about the cost of 
the renewals over the years.  If Mr L and Miss B hadnt engaged with StAIP   and StAIP  
increased the premiums  because of this, then that wouldnt have been fair. But our 
investigator noted that Mr L and Miss B had engaged with StAIP  several times about the 
renewal cost and received  three  discounts. Our investigator thought  that the reasons for the 
increases were genuinely risk related and werent  just because  Mr L and Miss B werent 
engaging.
Ref: DRN01109652Our investigator then looked at the reasons for the increases in premiums. StAIP had 
explained that it considered Mr L and Miss Bs property to be a high flood risk and charged 
the premium based on that risk. Our investigator thought  that was fair and explained  that 
they couldnt tell an insurer what it should charge  for its insurance.  So overall, they were 
satisfied that Mr L and Miss B had been  treated fairly. 
As Mr L and Miss B disagree,  and as the matter  hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I agree  with our investigator. I think  StAIP has 
treated Mr L and Miss B fairly. I know this will come  as a disappointment to Mr L and Miss B, 
so Id like to explain why.
I would like to make it clear that I dont  have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost. I would be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should operate   
and thats not my role. 
But I can look at whether StAIP treated Mr L and Miss B fairly  throughout the time they held 
their home insurance policy with it.
Its not unusual  for the cost of an insurance  policy to change  at each renewal. And there can 
be several, legitimate  reasons for this. But as most policies automatically renew if a 
consumer doesnt  stop it, a consumer who doesnt engage with the renewal process  or shop  
around can find they are paying much more for their cover than a new customer.
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal but 
where they knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with 
the renewals process, they should  have  taken care to make sure they treated these 
consumers fairly  and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour  by 
increasing their premiums just because  someone wasnt  engaging.
So Ive looked  into the policy Mr L and Miss B held with StAIP to see what happened.
the early years
StAIP has explained that when Mr L and Miss B took out their policy in 2007 it included  an 
introductory discount. It isnt uncommon for insurers to initially price a policy at a lower cost 
than it would charge  existing  customers for the same  risk. This is to attract  new customers. 
Insurers aim to keep the consumer and recoup that cost over the subsequent years.  I dont 
think this unfair.
StAIP says the initial increases in the premiums  each  year,  were due to the initial discount 
being recouped and the increases in IPT. It says the increases in the early  years were to 
remove the discount and bring the policys cost up to the true cost of the risk associated  with 
insuring Mr L and Miss Bs property, alongside  the levels of cover provided,  under the policy.  
Having seen the evidence provided, Im satisfied this was the case.
Ref: DRN01109653So there was a reason for the increases in Mr L and Miss Bs premiums  in the early years. It 
follows, I dont think StAIP treated Mr L and Miss B unfairly.
Mr L and Miss B also engaged with StAIP over the cost of the policy at four renewals  2009, 
2010, 2012 and 2015 receiving a discount on the premium at three of these. It is during a 
call Mr L had with StAIP at 2010s  renewal, when a discount wasnt applied, Mr L said he 
would shop around, but was happy  for the time being. 
So it seems  to me, Mr L and Miss B were  aware  they could engage with the cost at renewal. 
They accepted the costs,  so presumably were happy with them,  and knew  they could shop 
around.
the later years
As explained above, an insurer  isnt necessary doing anything wrong by changing the 
premium each year at renewal  and this can happen for a number of reasons. 
Each insurer, in determining its policys costs, is entitled to form its own view of risk 
regarding things such as flooding. And from this, it decides the costs associated with the 
risk. Insurers  often  use independent organisations approved by the Association of British 
Insurers (ABI)  to help determine  flood risk ratings associated with properties or areas. 
Insurers will typically, over the years, revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date 
and refined models. If an insurer  thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will 
increase accordingly   theres nothing wrong  with this.
StAIP says the later increases in Mr L and Miss Bs premiums were for risk related reasons. 
So Ive looked  to see what the reasons were.
In July 2015 StAIP paid out £2,450.40  following a storm  claim. This meant Mr L and Miss B 
lost their no claims discount (NCD).  It went from 30% to 0% for the 2016 renewal. So this a 
partial reason  for the increase at that time. NCDs go up incrementally, usually by around  5%, 
every year there isnt a claim made.  So this would have had an impact on the renewal cost in 
the following  years.  
But the main reason  for the increases in the later years was due to StAIP reassessing the 
risks presented to it by its consumers who were potentially at risk of flooding. 
In 2016, after reassessing the risk, StAIP considered Mr L and Miss Bs property was at a 
high risk of flooding. The premiums StAIP considered it should charge because of that risk 
were more than the amount it was charging Mr L and Miss B.
So StAIP wasnt charging Mr L the true cost of the risk it associated  with insuring the 
property from 2016 onwards.  StAIP  didnt  think it was fair to jump Mr L and Miss Bs 
premium up so significantly  and so quickly  so it increased the cost steadily, to bring the 
premium up to the level it associated with the property.
StAIP says it wouldnt even be able to offer insurance to Mr L and Miss B now due to the 
flood risk rating it now associates with Mr L and Miss Bs property.
Ref: DRN01109654From what  Ive seen, there  seem  to be legitimate risk related reasons  for the premium  
increasing from 2016. StAIP steadily increased the cost of Mr L and Miss Bs policy rather  
than immediately charging Mr L and Miss B the amount that it considered to be the true cost 
of insuring their property. This seems fair. StAIP also reassessed the risk all its consumers 
presented, so I cant say that Mr L and Miss B were singled out or treated any differently. 
Mr L and Miss B are unhappy because they consider their property  isnt at a high risk of 
flooding. They got a risk report from the Environment Agency which they say supports their 
argument. They also say they were able to obtain  much cheaper insurance with a different 
provider which shows they were overcharged by StAIP.
I know Mr L and Miss B feel very strongly their property isnt at risk and have gone  to great 
lengths in their submissions to StAIP and our service to support their argument.
Having looked  at the report from the Environment  Agency for Mr L and Miss Bs property, it 
says there  is a medium risk of flooding from rivers and sea in the area and a high risk for 
surface water flooding. So there is a risk. 
Ultimately StAIP is entitled to reassess the potential risk in insuring  Mr L and Miss Bs 
property each year. I appreciate Mr L and Miss B might not agree with StAIPs  risk 
assessment but there is a risk and it is StAIPs decision as to how much  risk a property 
represents and in turn the cost it then sets for the insurance. 
Mr L and Miss B think  because they got a policy with another  insurer for a lot less, this 
shows they were overcharged  by StAIP and its risk assessment wasnt  right.
The alternative home insurance  Mr L and Miss B obtained through an alternative  provider  
may be cheaper, but there could be a number of reasons for that. Its not uncommon  for 
insurers to use different pricing and risk models.  For example, Mr L and Miss Bs new 
insurance provider  may not consider Mr L and Miss Bs property to be at such a high risk of 
flooding. 
I note Mr L and Miss Bs new insurer has confirmed  to this service there is a risk of flood,  but 
that risk is within an acceptable  level it is willing to insure. Whereas  StAIP says, if Mr L and 
Miss B were to approach  it as a new customer,  it would decline them insurance. StAIP has 
assessed the risk differently  which it is entitled to do. And just because  Mr L and Miss Bs 
new provider assesses  risk differently, doesnt  mean StAIPs  perceptions  of the risks were  
incorrect at the time or that it treated  Mr L and Miss B unfairly.
Also, the new insurance Mr L and Miss B got would have most  likely been heavily 
discounted. As I have  explained above, I think its fair that an insurer recoups that discount 
over the subsequent years. I dont  think its fair to expect  an insurer  to maintain that discount 
for the duration  someone  has their policy. So the new policy  Mr L and Miss B obtained, while  
cheaper at the outset,  is likely to increase  in price as well.
I also note Mr L and Miss Bs new insurance doesnt  have the same level of cover. Mr B and 
Miss L didnt  opt for accidental damage  cover on their new buildings and contents 
insurance policy. So the policy is different to the policy they held with StAIP.
Ref: DRN01109655For these reasons, I dont  think  it is fair to compare the policy Mr L and Miss B initially took 
out in 2007 with the new insurance taken many years later.  Its a different policy  with 
reduced cover, with a different insurer, that has a different perception  of risk. And as Mr L 
and Miss B were new customers   they also benefited from an introductory discount  on their 
new policy.
In summary,  I appreciate  Mr L and Miss B will be unhappy with the outcome. But overall, the 
premiums increased initially due to StAIP recouping the discount  that had been applied.  
Then, in the later years, the increases were because Mr L and Miss B lost their NCD in 2016 
and because StAIP considered their property  to be at high risk of flooding. Im satisfied, that 
in Mr L and Miss Bs case, StAIP has shown that the increases in premiums were  for 
genuine risk related reasons. StAIP also reassessed the risks that all of its consumers 
presented in those  years   so I cant say that StAIP was treating Mr L and Miss B unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0110965