K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  unfairly declined a claim he made on his 
buildings insurance  policy.
background
Mr F has a buildings insurance policy with Ageas. He says his gable wall end suffered 
damage in a storm and had to be rebuilt.  He made  a claim on his policy  but it was declined  
by Ageas. It said the storm  wasnt the cause of the damage, it was because of missing  or 
failed wall ties and that wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr F complained to Ageas but it maintained  its position so he brought  the complaint to us. 
Our investigator said, in summary, it wasnt possible to say whether there had been  a storm 
in the area of Mr Fs house, and even  if there  had been, the damage wasnt  consistent with 
storm damage. She thought Ageas fairly declined the claim as she was persuaded the 
damage was likely caused by a wear  and tear and a poorly constructed wall.
Mr F wasnt happy with this and asked  an ombudsman  to make a decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. Id like to explain why.
Ageas is free to decide what it will and wont cover under  the policy and the terms and 
conditions of the policy will define what those things are. So what I need to decide here is 
whether Ageas has acted within these terms, and what  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances
When a consumer makes a claim, the onus is on them  to show that, on the balance  of 
probabilities, an insured  event caused  the damage. But, when an insurer  wants to apply an 
exclusion or say a condition has not been met and so decline a claim, the onus is on it to 
show, on the balance  of probabilities, that the exclusion  or condition applies.
When looking at complaint about  a declined claim relating to storm damage, there are a 
number of things  I need to consider.
is there evidence that shows  there was a storm on or around  the date the damage 
occurred?
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Ill look at these in turn.
was there  evidence of a storm?
Mr F is uncertain  when the damage  to the gable wall end occurred but he believes it was as 
a result of the storm commonly  known  as the Beast from the East and occurred in January 
or February  2018  or shortly after. He only noticed  the damage around  May of that year.
Ref: DRN03453912The storm Mr F refers  to was much publicised in the media and affected large areas of the 
country. But without  more specific information  about  when the damage occurred its difficult  
for me to reach a definitive conclusion about whether there was a storm in close proximity to 
Mr Fs house  at the time the damage occurred. 
But for the purposes of this decision,  Ill make the assumption that theres  a possibility there  
was a storm in Mr Fs area around  this time. So Ive then gone on to consider the next 
question.
is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
Storms sometimes  do cause damage  to property. This can take a number of forms such as 
damage to a chimney, dislodged roof times or an unsupported garden wall blowing over.  But 
Im not persuaded from the evidence Ive seen that the damage  to Mr Fs gable  wall end is 
consistent with damage  caused by a storm event.
So Ive then gone on to consider whats likely to have caused the damage.  
was the storm the main  cause of the damage?
Ageas sent a surveyor to look at the damage to Mr Fs property. The surveyor reported the 
following:
The damage is typical of wall tie failure as often  ties corrode over time due to damp 
penetrating through the mortar lines and into the cavity as the gable  end is in an 
exposed location.  Inspection inside  the loft space  found no movement to the inner 
brickwork. This, in my opinion, confirms either no wall ties or failed wall ties.
In my considered opinion  the damage to the gable  end is the result of missing wall 
ties or failed  wall ties. The recent adverse  weather conditions have not caused  but 
merely highlighted an existing defect in the dwelling
In his complaint  form, Mr F says when he got his builders to undertake the repairs to the wall 
they found there were in fact no wall ties. The builders report  said they thought the primary 
causes of the damage were
1. lack of gable end straps onto perlins  and rafters
2. the original butterfly cavity wall ties have rotted away  due to lack of heat drying  
walls in the loft space
3. the part lime cement mix has deteriorated  due to weathering on the bed and perp 
joints
4. the gable end vent at eaves level has allowed wind to enter the cavity and blow the 
out skin outwards
So, in short, they reached a similar  conclusion to Ageass  surveyor  as to the cause of the 
problem with the wall and didnt conclude that storm damage was the main  cause.
I know Mr F has interpreted point  number four as the builder saying the damage happened 
as a result  of the storm but Im not persuaded thats what the builder actually said.
Overall, Im satisfied its more likely than not that the damage to Mr Fs wall was not as a 
result of a storm event but due to the lack of wall ties which  was highlighted by wear and tear 
to the wall over a period of time.
Ref: DRN03453913Having reached  this conclusion Ive then gone  on to consider  whether the wear  and tear is 
covered by Mr Fs policy.
is wear and tear covered  by Mr Fs policy?
Looking at Mr Fs policy the following term explains its approach  to wear and tear 
Your insurer will not pay for any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind 
directly or indirectly caused by or resulting from wear and tear, depreciation, 
corrosion..
Mr Fs policy also provides cover, in certain circumstances, for accidental  damage caused to 
buildings. So for completeness Ive considered whether the damage to the gable wall might  
be covered under this section of the policy.
The terms of the policy define what accidental damage is
Accidental Damage
Sudden, unexpected and visible damage  which is not inevitable and has not been 
caused on purpose.
The surveyors report and the comments from Mr Fs builder make it clear  the damage  
happened over a period of time through wear and tear and Ive not seen any other 
persuasive evidence  that leads me to conclude  the damage to the wall happened  suddenly.
So Im satisfied wear and tear isnt covered by Mr Fs policy.
In summary,  Im satisfied  there was no cover  for this claim under Mr Fs policy for this 
damage. Because of this Ive concluded it was fair and reasonable for Ageas to decline the 
claim for the reasons Ive explained above  so I wont  be asking it to do any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0345391