K820x#14complaint
Miss E complains  as a director of a limited  company, M, that Zurich Insurance PLC has 
declined to pay its commercial all risks claim for fire damage to its premises and stock.
background
In June 2018 two members  of staff lit a bonfire to dispose of some  waste.  Miss E said it was 
just hedge clippings  although the loss adjuster  advised he was told cardboard  boxes were 
also put on the fire. Due to a sudden change of wind the fire caught the undergrowth  and a 
pile of damaged stock  which in turn spread to one of the buildings  and a storage unit and 
caused serious damage. The fire brigade  was called  and it took several hours to put the fire 
out. Zurich sent out a loss adjuster, Miss E says the loss adjuster promised her an interim 
payment by the end of the week.
The claim was referred  back to Zurich who advised  that it was to be declined because M 
was in breach  of a warranty that required removal of clippings and cuttings and trade waste  
away from the premises at least every week. It also said that by lighting the fire near to stock 
and outbuildings  there was breach of the policy condition to take reasonable care. With 
regard to the promised interim payment it said no such promise was made,  but details of 
income and expenditure were taken at the visit so any interim payment could be considered 
if liability was accepted. The loss adjuster discussed the warranty with Miss E and made it 
clear to her broker that it exceeded his delegated authority. But Zurich  said that there should 
have been more regular communications from the claims  team,  and for that oversight it paid 
£150 compensation.
In response Miss E said they did take reasonable care in lighting the fire which  was well 
away from the buildings and at least 10 metres way from the damaged stock, which wasnt 
flammable, the heat of the fire causing it to melt. She also said that the warranty was 
complied with, that no trade waste was burnt  and that cardboard  in any event wasnt trade 
waste.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Zurich had acted reasonably  and that 
M was in clear breach of the warranty. She also thought  that there was a failure  to take 
reasonable care in lighting  a bonfire in such close proximity to buildings  and stock.
Miss E didnt agree and the matter has been  passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
circumstances of the claim
There is some dispute over what were the circumstances that gave rise to the claim. The 
loss adjusters report was drawn up on the basis of what was told to him at the time of his 
visit to the property. The fire was on 26 June, the visit taking place on 2 July. I think  it 
reasonable to rely on what was said to that loss adjuster at that visit. Evidence close  to the 
time of the claim tends  to be more reliable than evidence  put forward when the full details of 
the reason for refusal of the claim are known. So I think it fair to say that:
Ref: DRN01902072cardboard boxes  and garden waste were being  burned
on some  occasions M arranged for a cardboard recycling trailer to be delivered to the 
site, which were  filled to remove larger quantities of waste cardboard.  
smaller denominations of cardboard were burnt on a regular basis  by having a bonfire, 
which may also have  involved the burning of other waste product such  as gardening 
waste from around the site
the fire was set up in a place where  it had been  lit before close  to a pile of damaged  
stock
It spread due to a strong gust of wind and caught hold of the stock and then spread to a 
storage container  holding  more  stock and to the main building.
breach of duty of reasonable care
There is a general condition in the policy that the policyholder shall take reasonable care to 
protect the property and (inter alia) prevent accidents. It could be said that setting a bonfire 
was a breach  of such duty. However we generally regard such conditions  as being breached 
only if the policyholder acts recklessly. I would be reluctant to find that setting a fire was a 
reckless act, especially  as the loss adjuster  said he didnt think  it was reckless, just careless.
breach of warranty
The warranty that M is alleged to be in breach of is:
It is warranted that trade waste, cuttings and clippings are swept, gathered and bagged  
daily and removed from the premises at least once a week
Miss E disputes that cardboard is trade waste. She says it cant  be swept or bagged.  I 
imagine that waste cardboard can be bagged,  although not swept. However  it is trade waste, 
the ordinary meaning of which is waste that comes out of a trade  or business, as opposed to 
household waste. As there  is a home  on the site, Im sure the difference  is readily apparent.
So I think trade waste was being burned, along  with cuttings and clippings. I dont think as 
has been argued that this is removing it from the premises. I believe that occasionally  large 
quantities of cardboard  were taken away, but I think smaller quantities  Zurich was entitled  to 
believe were regularly  burned. The purpose  of such a warranty is to minimise the fire and 
other risks of there being large quantities of waste on site. I think the natural meaning of 
removing from the premises would be to take it away.
Miss E has said that Zurich could have added to the warranty that items werent to be 
burned on the premises. But I dont think it needs to account for every possible hazard. I 
think that M was in breach of the warranty. Breach of a warranty can mean an automatic 
decline of the claim.  But we think it fair to say that such a breach must  have  had a material  
effect on the claim. I think that in burning rather than removing the waste  M was in breach of 
the warranty and Zurich is entitled to decline the claim.
promise of payment
Miss E says the loss adjuster told her and her broker that he had delegated authority to deal 
with claims up to £100,000. She says that no discussion  of the warranty took place and the 
loss adjuster promised  an interim payment within a week.
Ref: DRN01902073On the other hand the loss adjuster  says that while he discussed  the possibility of an interim 
payment he did mention  the warranty and advised  that the claim was likely  to exceed his 
delegated authority. He discussed this with the broker on the phone  on 10 July 2018 where 
he specifically advised that the claim was outside his delegated authority because  of the 
waste warranty.
I dont know exactly what was discussed between the parties. and I havent seen any 
statement from the broker to confirm Miss Es view. In the loss adjusters report issued 
seven days after the visit he specifically mentioned the warranty and its possible breach. So 
I think it likely that he advised that to the broker the next day. Miss E asserts  that she made 
payments she wouldnt  otherwise  have made.  So far as I can see initial steps were taken to 
clean up the site and clean and rebox  the undamaged stock to get the business going again.  
The electrical supply  needed to be set up again as it had been destroyed.  In the meantime 
generators were brought in.
I cant see that. whether  or not the claim was going to be paid, Miss E took any steps that a 
prudent business owner wouldnt have taken.  I think it was clear at least within a week  that 
no interim payment was to be made and that the claim remained under consideration. So I 
dont think Zurich should have to make  any payment to M in respect  of claim settlement on 
account of this.
compensation
Zurich reviewed the claim on 11 July 2018.  It reached its final decision on the claim on 29 
August, having corresponded with the broker about  it. While  such  a review  of a claim could 
be expected to take some time,  there  was a lack of communication and regular updates to 
Miss E in that period.  She would have  been anxious to know  the decision. For this Zurich  
paid £150 compensation.  I think in the context of this case that was reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0190207