K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) damaged her car 
when it was taken  for repairs under her motor  insurance policy. She wants  it to pay for the 
additional repairs and compensate her for her stress  and inconvenience.
background
Miss Ls car was taken  for repair by LVs approved garage. After it was returned, Miss L 
noticed areas of damage including to a seat,  the steering wheel and a door sill. LVs 
engineer inspected the car and it agreed to repair the seat damage. But it said the steering 
wheel damage  was a matter for the cars  manufacturer under its warranty.  And it wouldnt 
cover the damage  to the door as it hadnt  been reported until two weeks  after Miss L 
collected the car. LV paid Miss L £450 in total for her distress and inconvenience caused  by 
needing to attend the garage,  and make phone  calls and send emails. But Miss L wasnt 
happy with that.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  LV 
hadnt caused the damage to the steering wheel and it appeared to be due to wear and tear. 
He thought it most likely  that the cars door sill had been damaged  after the car was returned  
to Miss L. And he thought LVs offer of compensation was fair and reasonable.
Miss L replied that it was her word against the repairers. She thought the cars steering 
wheel had been damaged  by cleaning products. She thought statements should be taken 
from the drivers of the car since the accident.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss L wants her car to be perfect after the repairs following her 
accident. I can also understand that she must feel frustrated and stressed that her car has 
been back and forth for examinations and rectifications work. 
I can see that when  Miss L first collected her car after repairs she noticed several areas of 
concern. As far as I can see, some of these were resolved by the garage.  It also agreed to 
replace the damaged area on the seat as a gesture of goodwill as it didnt have  any photos 
of the area to show its pre-repair condition. But LV declined  to repair  the damage to the 
steering wheel or the damage to a door sill. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would  be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations,  the insurance  companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether  it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
Miss L thought the cars steering wheel  had been damaged  by cleaning products. LV said its 
garage didnt use any products  that could cause  such damage and that it didnt use cleaning  
products inside the car. It had its engineer  look at the area in question. He said that because  
of the nature  of the damage he couldnt  attribute this to cleaning products.  
Ref: DRN01325412Miss L took the car to the manufacturer who said the damage to the steering  wheel  wasnt  
due to a manufacturers  defect. LV also spoke  to the manufacturer  and it was told the 
damage was due to wear  and tear and wouldnt be covered under warranty.  
Miss L provided an estimate  for repair which said the damage looked  as if it could maybe 
have been caused by cleaning products.  LV offered to consider an independent engineers  
report if provided by Miss L. But I cant see that shes done this.
So LV had to consider its engineers opinion and the manufacturers view.  I think  that based 
on the evidence  it had, LV fairly  and reasonably  concluded that the damage was due to wear 
and tear and not to the repairers cleaning. So I think its justified not paying for this repair.  
LV also said it wouldnt  repair  the damage to the door sill. CCTV footage of Miss L 
examining the car after the repairs wasnt any longer available.  But it said this would just 
show Miss L walking around the car. So it considered its engineers report and Miss Ls calls. 
LV said Miss L didnt  report  the damage  until 17 days after the car had been returned. Its 
engineer said the damage could have occurred at any time. But Miss L said the scratch  was 
very low down and she only noticed  it when an object was recovered from under the car. 
Miss L said a garage had told her that the damage  could  have been  made  by hitting a kerb. 
And as several  drivers had driven  that car whilst it was being repaired,  she thought LV was 
responsible for this. 
I cant see that there are any photos  of the area taken before the repairs.  So I cant  see 
whether or not the damage was there before the repairs. But I agree with the investigator 
that the damage is significant. Miss L inspected the car after the repairs  were  completed and 
later when she returned home. So I think, on balance, if LV had caused  the damage  then its 
more than likely that Miss L would  have seen it when she inspected  the car or when she 
reported other problems  to LV for rectification. I dont think obtaining statements from drivers 
of the car is likely to add useful evidence at this point  due to the passage of time.  
So I cant say that theres  evidence  that the damage was caused  whilst the car was with LV. 
And so I dont think LV has been unfair or unreasonable in declining to repair this damage.  
LV paid Miss L £450 in total compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused  by the 
repeat visits she made to the garage  and the phone calls and emails she sent to pursue her 
repairs. I think thats fair and reasonable. Its in keeping  with what  Id require in similar 
circumstances. So I dont  require LV to increase this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0132541