K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 2000. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Ms E says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms E has said she didnt know she was taking  PPI and she shouldve  been given the option 
not to take it. But Ms Es card application  form had a separate  section for the account cover  
and a box to sign if the cover  was wanted.  And I think FICL added the cover only after Ms E 
signed in this box for it. With this in mind, on balance I think  its likely FICL  made  it clear  that 
Ms E didnt have to take the cover and she chose  to take it. But I can understand why Ms E 
might not remember this now, as she took out her card well over fifteen years ago.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms E so it didnt have to check the PPI was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms E got the information she needed to decide  if the PPI was 
right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms E about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take it - so it looks to me like she wanted this type of cover. 
From what  shes  told us, at the time Ms E wouldve got nothing but statutory pay if she was 
too sick to work or suffered redundancy. And the savings shes  told us about wouldnt  have  
made up for her loss of pay for long. So even though she owned her own property, it looks  to 
me like the policy  benefit wouldve been useful for Ms E if something went  wrong. And from 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, Ms E wasnt  affected by any of the likely  
exclusions to or limits  on the cover - so these wouldnt have stopped her claiming on the 
cover if the circumstances arose. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
Ms E off taking the cover.
Ive taken into account all Ms Es points, including what shes  said the PPI not being 
explained properly.  But Ive explained  above  my reasons for thinking better information 
wouldnt have changed Ms Es decision  to take the cover. So, for the reasons Ive given 
above, these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Ref: DRN07842912Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0784291