K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about  the scale of the premium increase for their reviewable whole 
of life policy sold and administered by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.) 
Limited, formerly Cannon  Assurance.  
background
Because Mr and Mrs R have already complained about the cost of the policy  and about the 
alleged mis-sale, Sun Life hasnt  consented  to us considering this element of the complaint. 
Our adjudicator agrees  with the business  regarding jurisdiction  for the same  reasons. 
In relation to the administration of the policy, in summary, the business said:
In 2006, the policy  was reviewed  and no changes were necessary. In 2011, and 
2017/18, the policy was reviewed again,  but failed its reviews.  However owing to 
errors it transpired that the calculations were  incorrect and Mr and Mrs R had 
underpaid the premiums by £5,610.69. 
It agreed to write-off the backdated  payments, but required Mr and Mrs R to pay the 
higher premium moving forward. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
We couldnt look at the issue that theyd complained about in 2011  and had been  
dealt with in 2012.  
A fair outcome has been reached  by Sun Life with regards to error in the calculations, 
and there was no reason to doubt its calculations.  
Sun Life was correct to write-off  the unpaid debt but at the same time was entitled  to 
the correct payments  moving forward. 
Mr and Mrs R disagreed  with the adjudicators findings and have asked  for an ombudsmans  
decision. In summary  they said:
The policy was mis-sold in 1986.  
Theyd like compensation for the excessive charges. 
They appreciate  cost is likely to increase as they get older but this is too much and 
they expect another 375% premium increase in the next five years which is unfair.  
They hope they can have our services  support to fight back  against  these  
businesses. 
They detailed a number of personal family difficulties they were undergoing in 2012  
and highlight  why they didnt pursue matters further then. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  I think Sun Lifes proposed redress  is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN00852092I note the business hasnt  consented to us considering the part of the complaint about  the 
sale of the policy and the cost of it. 
The extent  of my powers to consider  complaints is set by the industry regulator, the Financial
Conduct Authority  (FCA),  in the Dispute Resolution  (DISP) rules.
The rules  specifically provide time limitations within which to refer complaints to this service.
DISP rule 2.8.2 says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the
Financial Ombudsman  Service:
1. (1)
more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary 
resolution communication.
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or to the
Ombudsman within that period and has a written  acknowledgement or some
other record of the complaint having  been received;
The business sent Mr and Mrs R their final response letter  (FRL), dated 11 January 2012. It 
made clear that they had six months from the date of the letter  to refer their complaint to our 
service  but they didnt. Our service didnt receive a complaint until late 2018  which is 
outside the allowed timeframe.
I dont doubt Mr and Mrs R had the intention to complain. But I dont think simply having a 
desire to complain, but then failing  to refer the complaint to us within  six months of the FRL, 
means this complaint is within  jurisdiction. 
Ive carefully considered  Mr and Mrs Rs latest  submissions and why they say they didnt  
complain at the time. Having done  so, I dont believe there  are any exceptional 
circumstances that would allow me to reconsider the complaint out of time. 
That said Sun Life quite  rightly accepts that theres been an error in terms of the 
calculations, as a result Mr and Mrs R have been paying reduced premiums.  
I think its offer to write  off the debt, in other words to credit Mr and Mrs Rs account with the 
sum of £5,610.69,  at no cost to them, is fair and reasonable. 
Although Mr and Mrs R have been paying an incorrect lower  premium, Sun Life has a right 
to charge them the correct premium going  forward. The point of the redress is to place them  
in the position they wouldve been  in, but for the error, not to place them  in a more 
advantageous position.
So, moving forward the business is entitled to ask Mr and Mrs R to pay the correct premium, 
they will then have  the opportunity to consider whether or not to do so and maintain some  
form of life cover theyve had since 1986.  Ive seen no evidence,  that the policy has 
otherwise been  mismanaged. 
Ref: DRN00852093I appreciate theyre  concerned about the future cost of the plan but its important to 
remember that the plan still remains subject to reviews and the premiums are likely to go up 
in time as Mr and Mrs R get older. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0085209