K820x#14complaint
Miss P says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Due to the time that has passed,  its not clear how Miss P applied for her credit card and PPI 
policy. Lloyds dont  have  copies of any documents or other  records  and, understandably,  
Miss Ps recollection of the sale doesnt seem to be that strong either.  But the credit card 
was opened in 1996 and it seems most likely  that Miss P was sold the PPI policy at the 
same time. So Ive assumed this to be the case. But in considering the complaint,  Ive also 
borne in mind  that the policy could  have been sold at any time until January 2000 when 
Lloyds has a card statement showing a PPI premium being  charged.
At the time of the sale, Miss P was self-employed as the manager/owner of a business.  She 
has told us she wasnt entitled  to any sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying 
her credit card should she be unable  to work.  Miss P has also said she was in good health  
at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment, together  with life cover  
 subject to its exclusions  and limitations.  It offered  to repay  10% of Miss Ps credit  card 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost no more  than 79p per £100 of 
the monthly outstanding balance. The premium would continue to have  to be paid during a 
successful claim  and it did attract interest.  
Lloyds has sent us information to show that the credit card account closed in 2003.
Miss Ps representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Ps representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Ps 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The policy made it very difficult for self-employed people, like Miss P, to claim;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Miss P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss P and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and 
Ref: DRN07975772The information Miss P received was misleading. These  policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ps. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ps complaint.
This sale is thought  to have taken place in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards 
Council (GISC)  published its code of practice  in June 2000. And it is known to have taken 
place before the sale of general insurance products like this became regulated  in January 
2005. So, it doesnt seem  likely that the GISC Code, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching  
Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) are applicable to 
this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). But Ive borne in mind that the 
sale could have happened at a later date, but before 2000,  and also considered the rules  
and regulations that would have applied if this was the case.
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN07975773The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Miss Ps case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Miss Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Miss P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Miss P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss P suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss P and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Miss Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
Ref: DRN07975774did Miss P know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Lloyds doesnt  have any documentation from the time of this sale and cant  say how it was 
sold to miss P. But this isnt that surprising given  how long ago this all happened. 
Businesses arent required to keep  such documents for this length of time.
So, in these circumstances,  I need to decide  what I think is most likely to have happened, 
based on the very limited information  available to me. This includes  what I know more 
generally about how Lloyds normally sold these policies at around the time this sale must 
have taken place.  This includes sample  copies of credit card application  forms for the type of 
card Miss P was taking out. And having  done  so, I think  its more  likely than not that Lloyds 
would have made it clear  to Miss P that the PPI was optional  and that she agreed to take it -
without undue pressure  - before it was added to her card account.
did Lloyds provide advice?
Lloyds says it doesnt know whether this was an advised sale.  And Miss P doesnt seem to 
remember either. But to be fair to Miss P, Ive assumed that this was an advised sale in a 
branch because this means Lloyds had to advise Miss P with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given her needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss P. It seems Miss P cant remember  clearly  what  happened  and 
there is no record of what was discussed  with Miss P in relation to the policy.  Lloyds is likely 
to have had some limited  information about  Miss Ps financial circumstances, but there is no 
specific evidence to show Lloyds took steps to establish whether Miss P would have been 
caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations  which might have meant the policy did 
not fully meet her needs. For example,  there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered 
whether Miss P had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Lloyds  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Miss P given her circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss P, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss P met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Miss P had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  that Miss Ps ability  to continue  to 
meet her credit card repayments would  have been put under strain if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time.  
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss P.
Ref: DRN07975775-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss P. There  
was nothing about Miss Ps self-employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Miss Ps 
circumstances and the fact the policy could have cleared her outstanding card 
balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Miss P sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss P was given a very broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Miss P would  have been  told this  at the very least   during a 
discussion with an adviser.  And I think its unlikely Miss P would have taken  out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was. The application forms Ive seen  from around  this 
time made it clear PPI was optional and given her some idea of what  the policy was for.
Im also satisfied Miss P would have realised the policy wasnt  free and its likely she would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Miss P 
agreed to take out the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Miss P, Im not persuaded Lloyds  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Miss P. Im not persuaded that Lloyds gave  Miss P all of the 
information she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ps representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Ps representative considers to be poor  
Ref: DRN07975776value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss P about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss P has suggested.  And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss  shortcomings have on Miss P? To what  extent did Miss P suffer  loss 
or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Miss P. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss P 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss P 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Miss P, Ive found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss P has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Miss P would have  acted  differently,  or whether she would have taken out the policy  in any 
event.
Miss P says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. I have considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss P had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Ps circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
Ref: DRN07975777In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss P ought reasonably  to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But I accept that Lloyds didnt make clear  the on-going cost information.  So, while Miss P 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss P thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Miss P consulted a 
doctor about, or received  treatment for, in the 12 months before the start date of the 
policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Miss P pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the 
policy wasnt as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss P from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Ps circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, could have proved valuable  to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she would  have been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss P didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and it wasnt particularly  difficult for a self-employed person 
to claim under the policy. So, I still think she had some good  reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss P 
might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Miss P from taking out the policy, Miss P, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss P would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting and she didnt have any means of meeting her credit card 
repayments if she was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. And in 
those circumstances  I consider it more  likely  than not that she would have taken out the 
policy in any event.  
Miss Ps representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN07975778That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss P would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss P 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss P in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Miss P compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Miss P thinks Lloyds  misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Miss P, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met 
from 1996 to 2000  when  providing information  about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ps representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Lloyds and about the remedy 
a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss P in a better position  than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN07975779my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2020.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0797577