K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that esure Insurance Limited  has declined  his home insurance claim for 
damage caused by an escape of water. 
background
Mr W has had home  insurance with esure since May 2009.  In mid-March 2019, whilst  his en-
suite shower was being  used,  water  started to pour through the landing ceiling causing  
damage. Mr W phoned esure the following day to make a claim under his policy.  esure 
appointed a surveyor who visited the property  a few days later. The surveyor  sent esure a 
report shortly  after.  It said that the damage  observed was caused by the failure  of sealant 
around the base  of the shower  tray. It was noted  that the sealant around the shower tray had 
deteriorated. The surveyor told Mr W that damage  so caused was excluded from cover 
under the policy  so his claim was declined. 
Mr W complained  to esure about its decision to decline his claim. He said the water wasnt 
escaping as the result of failed sealant  but as the result  of a crack in one of the cubicle tile 
panels. esure reviewed  its claim file but still noted that the photographs showed the sealant 
had come away around the shower  tray. It also noted that the surveyor had said the damage  
below was consistent with water  coming through these areas. esure said that the decision to 
decline the claim was correct and that the policy didnt cover  Mr W for damage caused  by an 
escape of water where the escape  was caused  by the failure of grout and/or sealant.  
esure said that if Mr W could provide any evidence that showed the damage had been 
caused differently,  and which could contradict its surveyors findings,  then it would be 
prepared to review  its decision again.  
Unhappy with esures decision, Mr W complained to this service.  Our investigator looked into 
Mr Ws complaint  but didnt think esure had unfairly relied on the exclusion in order  to 
decline the claim. Mr W disagreed with our investigators conclusions. He said the surveyor 
had missed the full length crack  apparent across  one of the tile panels in the cubicle. He said 
it was incorrect that the failure of a small amount of grouting in the corner  of the cubicle 
caused the problem. He said it was inappropriate to expect him to arrange and pay for his 
own surveyor to assess the cause of damage. He asked  for his complaint to be referred for 
an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms permit esure to decline claims for damage caused by an escape of water 
where that damage is a result of a failure of sealant  and/or grout. Its my role to decide 
whether esure has acted  fairly by declining Mr Ws claim  by relying  on this term and I have to 
say I think it has. Ill explain why. 
Not all damage a home sustains is covered  by a home insurance policy. Only damage  
caused to a home by one of the one-off insured perils  (or events)  listed  in the policy  terms is 
covered. Such perils include damage  caused  by fire, theft, storm and escape of water  etc. If 
it can be shown that the damage  is the result  of one of these perils  then the insurer must pay 
then claim unless it is able to rely on one of the exclusions  in the policy  to decline the claim. 
Ref: DRN02648042Its not in doubt  that Mr Ws home has suffered damage as a result of an escape of water  
from his shower. Despite this being  the case, esure  has declined  the claim by relying on an 
exclusion specific to the escape of water  peril, namely that damage  thats  the result of a 
failure in the sealant and/or grout  isnt covered.  In other words,  esure  is saying that but for 
the failure of the sealant the escape of water wouldnt have  happened. 
Ive looked at all the evidence to decide whether that was a reasonable decision  for esure  to 
have reached in the circumstances. Ive seen the photographs taken both by the surveyor 
and by Mr W. I can see that there  are gaps between the shower tray and the tiles where the 
mastic sealant around the edge  of the shower  tray has failed. This appears to be in the 
corner by the waste. I note that Mr W accepts the sealant has failed  in this area. 
And Ive seen the horizontal crack where it appears one tile panel  has become separated 
from the one below. That seems to run the length of one side of the cubicle. 
The surveyor appointed  by esure  is experienced in assessing escape of water claims. It is 
her conclusion, having assessed  the damage, that it was the result  of a deteriorated shower 
seal and as such wasnt covered by the policy. Having looked  at the photographic evidence 
myself, I dont think that was an unreasonable conclusion for the surveyor  to have reached in 
the circumstances.  
I know Mr W has said he thinks the surveyor missed the full length crack across one of the 
tile panels but I cant  agree; there are photographs in the report of the full length  crack. So 
Im satisfied it was taken into account.
Without any other evidence to counter  what the surveyor has said I cant fairly or reasonably 
conclude that Mr Ws claim was incorrectly  declined.  There  is evidence  of failed sealant both 
photographically and in the surveyors written conclusions. I cant reasonably ignore that. 
Whilst I know Mr W thinks the area where  the sealant failed is small and cant have caused 
the problem, but without  any evidence  of his own to support what  he says I cant  reasonably  
ignore the only expert evidence about  the cause of the damage  which  is esures surveyors 
report. 
I note that Mr W thinks it would be inappropriate  and costly to obtain  his own evidence.  But 
without it, I cant fairly ignore the evidence of the surveyor  and tell esure  to pay his claim.  
And whilst Mr W thinks the horizontal  crack  in the tile panel  may be the cause of the escape, 
which he says was caused by his weight  in the shower, Ive seen no independent 
documentary evidence  that it was. From  the photographs it looks like the crack may have  
come about  gradually  which,  if it did, is also excluded from cover under the escape of water 
peril. 
I appreciate this decision will come  as a disappointment to Mr W but, for the reasons Ive 
given, I cant reasonably conclude that esure  has unfairly relied on the failed sealant and/or 
grout conclusion  in order to decline his claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020.
Ref: DRN02648043Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0264804