K820x#14complaint
The executor of Mr Cs estate (Mr C2) has complained about  how Ageas Insurance Limited  
treated Mr Cs buildings and contents  insurance  policy following his death.  This is because 
Ageas treated the property  as unoccupied  which meant the cover  would  be reduced and the 
property had to be inspected more often than Mr C2 thought was reasonable. Due to this, he 
had to arrange a new policy with a different  insurer.
I will refer to Ageas throughout, including where  communication was with its representative.
background
Mr C had a buildings  and contents insurance  policy on his home. The policy was granted  on 
the basis it was Mr Cs main residence. 
Mr C died in late 2017 and Ageas was informed this had happened. Ageas asked Mr C2 
various questions  about  the property and its use  regarding occupancy, what cover  was 
needed and what  would  be happening to the property going forward.  It also asked if the 
property was checked internally and externally each week.
Mr C2 informed Ageas that by his definition of lived  in and the policy  definition  of 
unoccupied, the property  was not unoccupied. This was because he had, and would be in 
the future,  staying in the property overnight for a few days periodically. As there  hadnt  been 
periods of more  than 60 days  between his stays, he didnt consider the property was 
unoccupied. He confirmed details of some changes to the cover required and that once  he 
had inherited the property  it would continue to be occupied for a few days  each month.  
Ageas explained to Mr C2 that as far as the unoccupancy clause in the policy  he had 
referred to was concerned, the term referred  to the property insured  being a home. In order 
for a property to be described as a home, it would need to be someones permanent, 
full-time and only UK residence. If a property didnt fulfil the description  of a home, Ageas 
didnt consider it was an occupied  property.  In light of how Mr C2 had said the property 
would be used, Ageas  said the property would be classed as unoccupied as far as its 
underwriting criteria was concerned. 
Ageas explained that the cover available under the policy  would be reduced in line with the 
unoccupancy clause as of 60 days after it had ceased  to be a home.  It confirmed what cover 
would be removed and that a requirement  for weekly checking  of the property  would be 
introduced at that point. It repeated its request for Mr C2 to confirm when the property 
became unoccupied, as it had explained  the term, and whether the property would be 
checked weekly. 
Mr C2 was not happy  with Ageas answer  and believed it was making things up as it went  
along with the objective of creating conditions he was unable  to comply  with. As such, he 
arranged alternative  cover with an insurer that specialised in insuring holiday homes. He 
requested the policy be cancelled.
Ageas reiterated  its comments about occupancy status. It also cancelled the policy  and 
provided a pro-rata  refund  of the premium. 
Mr C2 raised a complaint  with Ageas about the policy terms and conditions. Ageas  didnt 
uphold the complaint. It said the terms that Mr C2 disagreed with were  its standard terms 
Ref: DRN02122632and applied  to all policyholders.  Mr C2 wasnt satisfied with the response and referred his 
complaint to this service.
When referring his complaint to this service Mr C2 explained he doesnt agree that the 
property is unoccupied as he stays in the property at least over-night once a month.  He 
believes Ageas  introduced the concept  of residency to get around [his] reading of the 
unoccupancy clause. He doesnt  think the requirement for an inspection of the property 
every 7 days is reasonable as under the insurance  policy on his own home  he can be away  
for 60 days and no inspection is needed. Mr C2 believes that Ageas was deliberately 
creating what it knew was an practical  impossibility  of requiring inspections every  7 days in 
order to force him to cancel the policy. He thinks Ageas should have agreed to continue 
cover on the existing basis until renewal, when it could decline to offer renewal.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but didnt recommend that it was upheld. 
Mr C2 didnt accept the investigators conclusions and it has been referred to me for 
consideration.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to explain  that an insurer is entitled to decide what  type of policy  it is willing 
to issue and what risks it is willing to accept. That is a matter of commercial discretion and 
not something this service  would look to interfere with. In the case of the Ageas policy Mr C 
had, it is designed  for properties that are lived in as an individuals  main  residence. It is not 
available for holiday  homes or those lived in on a part-time  basis.  Any application  for such 
use would  be declined.
This is not unusual in the insurance  industry  and Ageas  approach to the property after 
Mr Cs death was also quite normal  if the property  is no longer a main residence  and 
empty most of the time, its classed as unoccupied. As arranging new insurance for such  a 
property before probate is granted can be difficult,  Ageas allowed the policy to continue. 
However, it intended to put limitations  on cover  and some additional requirements for regular  
inspections to reflect that the property  represented  a very different risk from the one it had 
agreed to cover. Again, this is quite typical of the actions of insurers  in such  situations.
I have considered Mr C2s comments about the occupancy of the property and the 
conditions he was expected to meet in order  for Ageas to allow the policy  to remain in place.  
I can understand why he wasnt happy with the situation,  but I cant see that Ageas did 
anything wrong. It treated  the policy in the same way it would any other  policy.  Whilst Mr C2 
wasnt personally able to meet the requirement  for inspections because  he lived some 
distance away, there was no requirement  that he complete the inspections  he could have 
made alternative arrangements with inspections being done by a neighbour or by a 
professional business such as a property management company.
In relation to Mr C2s opinion about  occupation, as I have explained above, the policy was 
granted on the basis the property would be occupied  as a primary residence.  Mr C2 
confirmed it would no longer be used for that purpose and would be empty for all but a few 
days a month. It wasnt unreasonable for Ageas  to categorise the property as unoccupied  in 
those circumstances.  Ageas ensured Mr C2 was aware of this at an early stage and the 
consequences it would have on the cover  provided by the policy.
Ref: DRN02122633Mr C2 has commented on some  case studies published by this service. I am familiar with the 
details of those  case studies and the points they are used to highlight.  However,  we assess 
each case on its individual merits and, although I know that Mr C2 will not agree with my 
conclusions, I dont  think Ageas did anything wrong  in its dealings relating to the policy in 
question.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C2, as the representative of the estate, to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 July 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0212263