K821x#15Complaint
Mrs V complains that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VFS) mishandled  the 
termination of her hire purchase agreement. 
Background
Mrs V had acquired a car funded by a hire purchase  agreement  with VFS. A month  before 
the agreement  was due to end Mrs V was notified of the options available  to her. Some 10 
days later Mrs V contacted VFS to arrange to pay the outstanding balloon payment and 
purchase the car. She wanted to split the payment between two credit  cards,  one of which  
offered 0% interest, but was told this wasnt acceptable. She then asked about refinancing 
the balance but was told that she needed to provide  21 days  notice.
Mrs V asked why she wasnt allowed to use two cards to pay and was told this was company 
policy. Mrs V paid on one card for which she was paying an interest rate of 16.9%. Her 
complaint to VFS was rejected. It said that its processes  and policy didnt allow  for payment 
from two sources.
Mrs V brought her complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld. He listened to the calls Mrs V made to VFS 
and noted the call handlers  were  unable to clarify why Mrs V wasnt able to pay using two 
cards. Nor could  they point to anything in the terms and conditions setting out this restriction.  
He believed that Mrs V had ended up paying  a higher rate of interest  needlessly.  VFS didnt 
agree and said Mrs V had signed  and agreed  to make her final payment via direct debit.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that Mrs V wished  to use the most cost effective method of paying the outstanding 
balance. She had an interest free credit  card with a limit below the sum due and so wished 
to use two cards. I can understand  that VFS has its processes, but when Mrs V sought to 
refinance the loan she was told that she was too late. I have seen nothing  in the material 
sent out to her that sets out a deadline by which she must finalise arrangements. This meant 
that another  method of satisfying the debt was closed to her.
VFS is entitled to operate its own processes, but at the same time the customer  should  not 
be disadvantaged. I believe the outcome was unfair on Mrs V and she has incurred 
additional costs  which she had no expectation  of having to meet. I have seen Mrs Vs credit  
card statement which shows she used it to pay the balance. Therefore I consider it only fair 
that she be recompensed for the additional  cost.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to:
Pay Mrs V £213.52  to cover interest  charge occurred on credit card.
Pay Mrs V £50 for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN02025732Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0202573