K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  about being  unable to access her alloy wheel  repair policy  with Elite 
Insurance Company Limited. 
background
Miss A made a claim on her alloy wheel policy in September 2018. But she says she was 
told she couldnt book  the repair until Elite was releasing funds for the costs and there wasnt 
a confirmed timeframe for this. Miss A wants a refund of the premium  she paid as she was 
unable to use the policy.
Elite said in its final response that there  had been  an administrative error by its claims team.  
It apologised  for this and the delay that had resulted. The error had been  rectified  and the 
repair had been  completed. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
An email was sent on 16 September 2018 requesting the alloy wheel repair.  It wasnt 
properly logged by Elite until 27 September 2018 when the repair was authorised.
Elite said the repair couldnt  be completed straight away  as it had a restricted  
payment protocol in place but Miss A could get the work  carried out at a discounted  
price and then be reimbursed at a later date.
Miss A sold her car in October 2018.  As the car was sold before there were any 
serious delays in the process of claiming  for the damage and as Miss A hasnt 
provided any evidence of the amount deducted from the cars sale price for the alloy 
wheel damage,  she cant  ask Elite to refund the policy as it was used.  And she cant 
ask it to pay any compensation  as there  wasnt a significant  delay.
Miss A doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. She says she was only 
offered the use of another company when she complained and it gave her a ridiculous and 
unacceptable date five weeks later.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Elite clearly  accepts it made  an administrative error when first dealing with Miss As claim.  
But this only delayed things by a few days and it authorised the alloy wheel repair.
In early 2018 Elite had put in place  a restricted payment protocol for business  reasons it 
says to ensure  it was able to carry on trading and honour the contracts it had with all 
policyholders. That included Miss A. It says this protocol  was lifted on 4 October 2018 and it 
then started to work through and pay its claims backlog.
I understand how this delay in dealing and paying  with the claim wouldve been frustrating 
for Miss A. But Elite had already indicated it would deal with her claim and she had used the 
policy. So, I cant reasonably ask Elite to refund  the premium she paid for it.
Ref: DRN00261582And, even  if it was only after she complained, Elite offered her a way to mitigate her loss and 
get the work  done by getting a discounted  repair with another company and then being 
reimbursed the cost at a later date. That was a reasonable offer. Its unfortunate if the date 
offered by the other  company for the repair work wasnt acceptable to Miss A. But that date 
was only some six weeks after the claim was made. Overall I think Elite acted reasonably in 
all the circumstances.
Furthermore theres no evidence of how much was deducted from the cars  sale price for the 
alloy wheel damage. And I cant fairly  ask Elite to pay any compensation for this.
Taking everything into account  although  I understand  Miss As frustration I dont think  I can 
fairly or reasonably ask Elite to refund the premium  or pay any compensation to Miss A as 
shed like.
And I dont  see any compelling reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 January 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0026158