K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that MBNA Limited opened  a credit card account in his name,  without his 
knowledge or authority. He says his late wife applied for the credit  card.   
background
In November 2007 MBNA received  an online application for a credit card in Mr Ts name. 
The application was accepted and an account opened; Mrs T was an additional cardholder. 
MBNAs records show that the account was active mainly between  November 2007  and April 
2012. For around five years, between 2010 and 2015, payments to the credit  card account 
were made by direct debit  from a joint account in the names of Mr and Mrs T.  
Mr T says he was unaware of the account  until late 2017, when  he applied for a mortgage 
and had his application refused. He then obtained a copy of his credit file and identified  the 
MBNA account. It seems  that the default  on that account was affecting  his ability  to obtain 
the mortgage.
MBNA didnt  accept that Mr T knew nothing about  the account. It said, in summary:
The account had been  maintained for a number of years without any concern.
It had been used for what appeared to be household expenses, from which  he would 
have benefited. 
The personal information provided  in the application matched Mr Ts information.
Correspondence  relating to the account, as well as cards and PINs, were  addressed  to 
Mr T as the primary cardholder. 
Mr T explained that, at the time, his wife looked after the household finances. He was not at 
home during the day, and would not have  seen items of post. 
When Mr T referred  the complaint to this service, one of our adjudicators considered  it. She 
concluded that, even if Mr T was unaware  of the account, he had benefitted from its use. 
She didnt  think MBNA had acted unreasonably in holding Mr T liable for the spending on the 
card. 
Mr T didnt  accept the adjudicators conclusions and asked that they be reviewed by an 
ombudsman  as the final stage in our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
It was some ten years after the initial application  that Mr T indicated to MBNA that there was 
a problem here. It is therefore quite possible that he doesnt recall the application being 
made. Further, given  his late wife would have  known his personal  details, she may well have 
applied for the credit  card without his knowledge. I note that they shared the email  address 
linked to the account. 
Ref: DRN01836532I accept too what Mr T says about the household finances. Ive no reason to disbelieve him 
when he says that he wasnt involved in them and left them  to his wife. 
However, even if Mr T didnt himself apply for the credit card in 2007 or find out about the 
application until later,  I think  it more  likely  than not that he was aware of the credit card 
account some years  before he raised his concerns with MBNA. And if he knew  about it but 
didnt tell MBNA that it had been  opened without his knowledge or consent,  I dont  believe  it 
would be fair to require  MBNA to, for example, write  off the debt or compensate him. After 
all, it has now lost the opportunity to investigate the application properly.
There are, I think, a number of indications that Mr T knew  about the credit  card some time 
before he says he did: 
Statements  and other correspondence  were addressed  to him, as the primary 
cardholder. Its more  likely  than not that he would have seen  at least some  of them.
Similarly, his cards and PIN would have been addressed to him.  
Payments to the credit  card account  came  from a joint account  for several years.  Its 
likely he identified at least some of them. 
The account was used primarily for household  expenses.  Even if Mr T wasnt  using the 
credit card himself, he must have been  aware that there  was an account funding  that 
expenditure.   
However, even if I took a different view on that  and accepted that Mr T knew  nothing about 
the account at all  my overall conclusions would  be no different. Thats  because  he doesnt  
appear to have suffered any loss from the use of the card.  It appears  to have been used for 
normal day-to-day expenses and other  joint expenditure such  as holidays. Put another way, 
the credit  card account was only used to fund expenditure  he knew  about and had agreed 
to. That also makes it more likely,  in my view, that Mr T did know  about the credit card 
account. There was no reason  for it to be secret, since it was being used to pay for things he 
knew about.  
Mr T says that he hasnt benefited  from the addition of interest and charges on the account  
which account for much of the later balance. I see his point here, but those items represent,  
in effect, the price of the account; and he has had the benefit of that. My primary finding is, 
however, that he knew about the account some time before late 2017. Having let MBNA 
continue as if he were content with the position, it would not now be fair to let him say that 
was not the case. 
I note that MBNA has now sold the debt, and it is therefore for Mr T to liaise with the current  
holder of the debt about any outstanding balance. 
Ref: DRN01836533my final decision
My final decision is that I do not require  MBNA  Limited to take any steps  to resolve Mr Ts 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0183653