K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that the car he acquired with finance from FCE Bank  Plc (FCE)  isnt fit for 
purpose.
Mr D is represented in this complaint by his mother.
background
Mr D says he acquired the car new in March 2016. He says on 1 September  2018  it broke  
down and he later learned the crankshaft had snapped. He says the dealership  initially 
declined to repair the car under warranty because  it said hed used the wrong type of oil. 
And he says after lengthy  delays and considerable inconvenience the dealership carried out 
a repair.
Mr D also says although the cars since  been repaired hes lost confidence in it as a result of 
his experience and hes concerned about  its safety. He says he hasnt driven it since it was 
repaired. And he says he wants to reject the car and end his finance agreement.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ds complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. He said it took three months  before the 
repairs were carried out, so this wasnt a reasonable timeframe. He said the matters caused  
him great inconvenience  as its dragged on. He says hes incurred financial losses  in paying 
for car hire, then having to buy another car on finance. And he says his right to reject the car 
shouldve been  accepted,  due to unreasonable timescales. 
Mr D also said a major component had failed, so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect 
him to accept the car back. He said if this component had snapped at speed it couldve 
caused a fatal accident.  And he says hes lost faith in the car, so he shouldnt have been  
expected to accept it back  after repair. 
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
FCE supplied Mr Ds car under a finance agreement, so it was responsible for ensuring the 
car was fit for purpose and of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I see the crankshaft  failed  when the car was around  two and a half years old and had 
covered approximately 47,000 miles.  I also see theres conflicting information  about the 
possible cause of this fault. Mr D says it mustve  been the result of an inherent defect, 
particularly given that he acquired  the car new. Whereas the dealership says the wrong 
specification of oil had been used when the car was serviced by an independent  garage. 
And it says this may have led to the crankshaft failing.
Ref: DRN09322812I havent seen  an independent inspection report  about the likely cause of this serious fault.  
And, in these circumstances, I dont  have enough  information to conclude it was most likely 
the result  of an inherent or manufacturing defect. 
In one sense my conclusion in relation  to this matter is unimportant, since the car was 
eventually repaired at no cost to Mr D in any event. But it becomes important when I 
consider the aspect of Mr Ds complaint  that relates to the delay in this work being 
undertaken, the questions he was asked about the servicing of the car and the fact that at 
one stage he was asked to pay £400  for the engine to be stripped down and inspected.
Mr Ds representatives explained the impact this situation had on his health and Ive 
sympathy for him. But I think it was legitimate for these  issues  to be raised in view of the 
contents of the service  record for the car. And I think the delay in repairs  being carried out 
was largely due to matters of this nature, rather than being the result of poor service  on the 
part of the dealership, the manufacturer or FCE. So, I dont think  it would  be reasonable for 
me to require FCE to pay Mr D any compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of these issues.  
I understand Mr D hasnt driven the car since it was repaired, due to concerns about the 
safety of it, in light of his experience. I also understand he continued making monthly  
payments under his finance agreement  until the term ended  recently   
But I havent seen  independent information  indicating the existence of safety concerns in 
relation to cars of that make and model.  And I dont  think the previous  failure  of the 
crankshaft is sufficient to give rise to objectively justifiable safety concerns about  the future 
use of the car. So, in these circumstances, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to 
require FCE to repay any of the payments Mr D made under his finance  agreement 
And for these reasons  I cant  fairly and reasonably uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against  FCE Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.  
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0932281