K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that they were mis-sold payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  when 
they took out a loan with Bank of Scotland plc (BoS).
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a loan with BoS in 2002.  At the same time they took out a PPI policy  
which would have covered the loan repayments  for up to a year at a time if Mr D was made 
redundant and for up to five years  at a time if he was too sick to work.  The policy only 
covered Mr D. 
Mr and Mrs D have told this service  they were led to believe the policy wasnt optional. They 
say they felt pressurised into buying  it and they didnt have any information about  it. 
The adjudicator didnt think their complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs D disagree,  so 
their complaint has been passed to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr and Mrs D told this service that they were  mis-led into buying the PPI because  they were  
told they had to have it to get the loan. They say they felt pressured to buy it. But when they 
first complained to BoS they said the PPI was added without their knowledge or consent. 
BoS has provided a copy of the loan application form which Mr and Mrs D completed.  It has 
a prominent section in the middle  of the form for PPI. There  are two large boxes offering a 
choice whether to take the PPI or not. It makes it clear the PPI is optional. The box to say 
yes to the PPI has been  signed  by Mr D. And both Mr and Mrs D have signed  the 
completed form, which is a single page  long.
The loan agreement  also has a separate  section to confirm that the PPI was wanted. Again, 
it makes it clear  theres  a choice about it. Theres an X in the box to say that it is wanted, 
and Mr and Mrs D have again both signed  this form.
I think its clear  that the policy was optional and Mr and Mrs D chose to buy it. So I am not 
upholding their complaint  on that basis.
Ive looked at the rest of the sale to see if theres another reason why their complaint may be 
upheld. 
BoS gave Mr and Mrs D a personal  recommendation about  the PPI, so it had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was suitable  for them. Mr D was the only person covered  
on the policy so Ive looked at his circumstances at the point  of sale,  and having done  so, I 
think it was suitable.  I say this because:
Ref: DRN09002982Mr D was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been  affected by any of the terms 
which might  have  made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such as 
those related to self-employment or existing medical  conditions;
Mr D would have only received statutory sick pay. The policy would have paid out in 
addition to this and for up to five years at a time, so it offered a useful benefit;
Mr D hasnt told us about  any redundancy pay entitlement. I think  its likely he was 
only entitled to the statutory amount, which wouldnt have been  more than the 
equivalent of a few weeks pay. The policy would have paid out in addition to this so I 
think it provided a useful benefit;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar products on the market at the 
same time. It was a regular monthly premium  (not a single premium as Mr and Mrs D 
have said) which could  have  been cancelled  at any time without a financial penalty. 
And the cost was clearly disclosed on the agreement,  so Mr and Mrs D would have 
known what they would have been paying.
Its possible Mr and Mrs D werent told about  all the finer details of the policy. But, as Ive 
already explained, the policy was suitable for Mr D, so I dont think  more,  or better, 
information would have changed their minds about buying it.
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs D lost out as a result  of anything BoS might have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, so it follows  that Bank of Scotland plc doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2020.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0900298