K821x#15complaint
Mr S and Ms C complain  that Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) has rejected part of their claim 
under their travel insurance policy when Ms C was taken ill when on holiday.
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  in this case. In response to this Ive received 
responses from both Mr S and Ms C and from Vitality, which Ill comment on below.
background 
Mr S and Ms C and their 14 month  old daughter were on a holiday abroad  when  Ms C was 
taken ill with a burst appendix. Theyd  travelled  from the UK on 25 November 2018 and were 
due to return to the UK on 10 December. Ms C became unwell on 29 November and was 
admitted to hospital  on 30 November where  she underwent  surgery that same day. 
Mr S says that while Ms C was in hospital,  which was about 2 hours  drive  from their resort  
hotel, both he and their daughter had to stay at the hospital with her so that Ms C could 
continue to breast feed their daughter  and he could look after them.   He says he had to bring  
them meals  and food that he had to buy locally, as Ms C is vegetarian and their daughter 
has a lactose intolerance, and their food needs  werent well provided for at the hospital. 
Ms C was discharged from hospital on 4 December. However as she needed to recover  from 
her surgery,  she was largely confined to her hotel room and Mr S had to tend to her and their 
daughter. After a visit back to the hospital on 8 December to be assessed, Ms C was 
declared fit to fly. They all returned to the UK on their originally booked flight. 
Mr S and Ms C made a claim under their policy with Vitality for the curtailment of their 
holiday and for additional  expenses that theyd had to incur.  
Vitality agreed to cover a number of the out of pocket  expenses that Mr S and Ms C 
incurred, but not all, such as airport parking charges  or charges  to clean or buy clothing and 
baby supplies as these  aren't covered by their policy. Its also said it wont reimburse 
telephone calls they made except  those made to Vitality and its agents, as only these are 
covered by their policy. Mr S has accepted that some items claimed for arent covered by the 
policy, and isnt pursuing his claim for reimbursement  of telephone charges. 
Mr S and Ms Cs main  complaint is that Vitality has rejected their claim for the curtailment of 
their holiday.  Its said that their holiday wasnt cut short as they returned home on their 
original scheduled  flight. And whilst  they might not have enjoyed their holiday in the 
circumstances, the policy  expressly states,  under the heading Travel benefit   Whats not 
covered - Cancelling  or Cutting Your Trip Short:
We will not pay for:
 Lack of enjoyment of your trip and any accommodation, bookings  or facilities 
that you do not fully enjoy.
Mr S says that they wouldve  sought repatriation on 30 November if Ms C had been able to 
travel, which  wouldve  cost Vitality considerably more, but Ms C wasnt  declared fit to fly until 
8 December. He say that after Ms C was discharged from hospital, their time was mostly 
spent in their hotel room  or in one of the restaurants  within their hotel  as Ms C felt ill, 
Ref: DRN05780282exhausted, and traumatised following her surgery, and Mr S had to care for  Ms C and their 
very young daughter. They brought their complaint about the rejection  of the most significant 
part of their claim to this service.
Our investigator thought that this was a case where a claim for curtailment was fair. Having 
provided an initial view,  she received  comments from Mr S and Ms C and from Vitality, and 
concluded that it would be reasonable for Vitality to treat Mr S and Ms Cs holiday as having  
been curtailed  for the four days for which Ms C was hospitalized. 
Vitality has offered to treat Mr Ss and Ms Cs holiday  as having been curtailed for four days, 
based on the fact that Ms C spent the nights of 30 November to 4 December in hospital and 
that Mr S and their daughter stayed  at the hospital  with her throughout. But Mr S argues that 
their holiday  was effectively curtailed until 10 December because of the restrictions  Ms Cs 
condition placed  on what they were able to do. Hes asked that an ombudsman consider  his 
complaint, so its been passed to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Im going to uphold  Mr S and Ms Cs 
complaint in part and Ill explain why.
Mr S and Ms Cs policy provides cover for curtailment.  Vitalitys view is that this means 
cutting a holiday short, which Mr S and Ms C didnt do. But our service  will consider  whether, 
depending on circumstances,  its reasonable to treat a trip as having been effectively 
curtailed.  Vitality appears to have accepted that, for the period for which Ms C was in 
hospital, and during  which Mr S and their daughter were with her, their holiday was 
effectively curtailed. Its agreed to pay for four days of curtailment. What isnt agreed is 
whether it would be reasonable for Vitality to pay any claim for curtailment  beyond  these four 
days. 
I accept that Ms C experienced a very dangerous medical situation and that when  she left 
hospital she wouldve  been fragile, in pain, and exhausted by the experience.  And not only 
did she need time to start her recovery from her surgery, she also had to breast feed her 
young daughter  on demand, and she needed Mr Ss help with this. 
Ive seen from a timeline that Mr S has provided  that on 5 and 6 December the family was 
entirely or largely confined to their hotel room. I accept that during this initial period 
immediately following Ms Cs discharge they were  so restricted  in what  they could  do that 
their holiday  was effectively curtailed.
But according to Mr Ss timeline,  from 7 December, as Ms C was recovering,  they were  able 
to move around the resort and go for meals. I accept that what Ms C was able to do beyond 
that wouldve  been limited, and that she couldnt take advantage of much of what the resort 
had to offer in terms of activities and food. But I dont think  that amounts  to effective 
curtailment. 
I dont think Mr S wouldve  been  similarly  limited.  His diet wouldnt have been restricted, and 
he and his daughter couldve  used the pool and the beach. He was able to take his daughter 
on a trip outside  the resort on 7 December.  On 8 December they all drove  back to the 
hospital for Ms Cs condition to be assessed, and did some  sightseeing  on the way. Ms C 
Ref: DRN05780283was assessed  as fit to fly. And on 9 December they all did another trip out of the resort 
together.
So I dont  agree with Mr S that because Ms C couldnt use most  of the facilities  of the resort,  
and that they were  restricted in what they could  do, that their holiday was therefore 
effectively curtailed from 30 November until 10 December. But I do think  that the effective 
curtailment extended  from 30 November until 6 December. I accept that it wouldnt  have 
been an enjoyable holiday  for them, but the policy expressly excludes any claim for loss of 
enjoyment.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr S and Ms C and Vitality agreed to accept  my 
decision that their 14 day holiday was effectively curtailed for six days,  and that Vitality 
reimburse to them  6/14ths of the holiday cost.
The total cost of their holiday  package was £4,428.  Mr S and Ms C were  expecting to 
receive 6/14ths of this sum, which is £1,897.68. Vitality has paid them £1,234.45, which  
includes interest. Its explained that it has deducted  from the total holiday cost the proportion  
of the total cost represented by the flights, as Mr S and Ms C didnt need to buy new flights  
as they returned home on their original booked  flights. Its said that it uses  a figure of 40% to 
represent the cost of flights.
I accept that Mr S and Ms C used their original  flights. Had it been  possible to say with some 
exactitude how much of the total holiday cost of £4,428 was the cost of their flights, I 
wouldve been inclined to agree with Vitality that it would be fair to exclude the flight element 
and to require  only that Vitality  reimburse  to them 6/14ths of the remaining balance which 
represented the accommodation  and any food included in the package. But Im not satisfied 
that a figure of 40% is anything  other than an arbitrary figure.  The proportion of a total 
package holiday cost represented by flights must depend, amongst  other  things, on how 
expensive the accommodation element is. 
So in these  circumstances  I think its fair and reasonable  to follow  the usual practice  of this 
service when dealing  with the curtailment  of package holidays,  and to require that Vitality 
reimburse to Mr S and Ms C 6/14ths of £4,428,  namely £1,897.68.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I require  Vitality Health Limited to settle  Mr S and Ms Cs 
claim for curtailment of their holiday  by paying  them the sum of £1,897.68, subject to the 
other policy terms and to any excess,  and less any sum it has already paid to them.
I also require Vitality  Health Limited  to pay interest on the sum payable  at the simple rate of 
8% a year from the date Mr S and Ms C made  their claim to the date payment is made to 
them.
If Vitality  Health  Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell them how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
them a certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2020.
Ref: DRN05780284Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0578028