K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with how Legal & General  Insurance  Limited (L&G) has handled 
their home insurance claim. 
Any reference to L&G includes the actions of its agents.
background 
In April 2019 Mr and Mrs Fs home  was damaged due to a fire at a neighbouring property. 
As a result, they contacted L&G to make  a claim.  L&G appointed a surveyor  to manage the 
claim on its behalf.
Following a short stay with their relatives,  L&G arranged  for Mr and Mrs F and their daughter  
to stay in a hotel  as their home  wasnt habitable due to the damage. They remained at the 
hotel until early May before moving  to a short-term rental property.  
While staying at the hotel, Mr F contacted L&G and asked if his family could be moved to an 
apartment. He explained  his daughter was studying for her GCSEs and needed a quiet place 
to revise, which she couldnt do in the hotel room, so it wasnt  suitable. L&G said as the hotel 
had been paid until 3 May 2019,  it couldnt  move Mr F and his family before this time as a 
cancellation fee would be incurred. 
L&G paid disturbance allowance to cover  the period Mr F and his family were staying at the 
hotel. It paid £10 per person, per day. But Mr F doesnt feel the disturbance  allowance  
adequately covered the expenses his family incurred  including wages and other costs. 
Following a complaint  to L&G about  how the claim had been handled, L&G offered £200  
compensation. It accepted its communication couldve been better, and that Mr F and his 
family shouldve been  given the option of having  two hotel rooms in the first instance. L&G 
explained that due to the complexity of the claim, it had needed to appoint loss adjusters to 
take over the management of it and it accepted this had caused a delay. L&G said it was 
satisfied the amount of disturbance allowance it had paid was fair, but it offered to review the 
familys travel expenses  while  staying in the hotel. 
Mr and Mrs F remained unhappy and so brought a complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered  it and said L&G should increase the its compensation to £300 
instead. 
He said the hotel wasnt comparable accommodation. And that L&G had correctly applied  
the adult cost to Mr and Mrs Fs daughter when calculating disturbance allowance. He 
explained the policy isnt designed to cover loss of wages,  and he couldnt see that L&G had 
caused this in any event.  
The investigator accepted thered been lack of updates and delays with the claim, but he 
thought it was reasonable for the claim to have been  passed  to the loss adjuster. 
L&G agreed with the investigators view, but Mr and Mrs F remained unhappy. They said the 
compensation didnt reflect the inconvenience  theyd been  caused. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN03302152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator. And Im directing L&G to pay Mr and MRs F £300 to fairly reflect the difficulties 
their family has experienced.
Im aware Mr and Mrs F want to make  a complaint about the entirety of how their claim has 
been handled. To be clear, in this decision, Ill only be considering events up until the date of 
L&Gs final response. 
delays and communication
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS) says an insurer must handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  Whats prompt will depend on the circumstances and so there 
isnt a defined  timeframe. But where theres  a lot of damage and remedial works, things will 
obviously take longer.
As Mr and Mrs Fs claim is about  fire damage, its not easy  to say with certainty how quickly 
things ought to have progressed. But L&G has acknowledged that it caused  delays and that 
needing to pass  the claim to a loss adjuster because of its complex nature added  to this. 
Its not always apparent  at the outset how complex a claim might  be, so I dont think  its 
unreasonable for L&G not to have  known early on that the claim would need  to be dealt with 
by its loss adjuster.  But in any event, both parties  agree that handing  over the claim did 
cause a delay  of a couple weeks.  
Mr F said he had to chase L&G for updates. And I can see from reviewing L&Gs  case  notes,  
I can see Mr F did initiate  contact to find out what was happening  with his claim. Mr Fs also 
said he didnt receive a call back from a manager  within 24 hours. But from what I can see 
L&G did log Mr Fs concerns when it was made aware and it called him the next day  which 
I think is reasonable.
alternative accommodation
The policy says that cover will be provided for the cost of comparable  alternative 
accommodation if you are the occupier. Mr and Mrs Fs property is a three-bedroom               
semi-detached house. So, I agree with our investigator that placing Mr F and his family in 
one hotel room  wasnt comparable accommodation for their needs.  L&G has also accepted 
that it shouldve  offered  Mr F and his family two hotel rooms  initially.  
While staying at the hotel, Mr F asked to be moved to an apartment, but L&G said it couldnt 
do this as it would incur a cancellation charge. But I dont think  this charge shouldve  
prevented L&G from considering Mr Fs request, as under the terms of the policy,  it had a 
responsibility to provide  comparable alternative  accommodation  which  it hadnt done.  And 
given it had made this mistake by booking the wrong  type of accommodation,  which it 
doesnt dispute, I think its unfair for L&G to postpone rectifying  the problem due to 
cancellation costs  it wouldve  incurred.
I appreciate that staying  at the hotel  was inconvenient for Mr F and his family, especially as 
his daughter was studying for exams. But when thinking about the impact of this, I need to 
Ref: DRN03302153balance this with the fact that their stay was limited to only a few weeks  and was only 
temporary. 
Disturbance allowance
Disturbance allowance is commonly used in insurance to account for the additional financial 
costs a consumer  has had to make  as a result of not being in their home. Mr F has said the 
sum L&G gave them  didnt fully cover their increased costs.  
Ive considered whether the disturbance allowance of £10 per person, per day is fair. This is 
a common figure used when calculating disturbance.  And in this case, Ive not seen 
evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs F incurred reasonable costs above this amount, and as 
L&G paid it for the duration they were  at the hotel. 
In any event, it seems Mr and Mrs F received more disturbance allowance than what  they 
mightve been entitled to under the policy as L&G paid the adult rate for their daughter who 
was in fact a child at the time and would ordinarily only be entitled to receive £5 per day. I 
know Mr and Mrs F dont  feel £10 per person, per day, is enough. But it is line with what  
wed expect insurers to pay in the circumstances. So, Im satisfied L&G has acted fairly in 
respect of the disturbance allowance.
I note that L&G has offered  to consider the additional travel costs the family incurred while 
staying at the hotel which  Im satisfied is a reasonable  course of action.  
compensation for non-financial loss
In deciding whether  £300  compensation is fair, Ive thought about  the impact  the situation  
had on Mr and Mrs F and their daughter. I dont doubt that not being in their own home, or in 
more suitable  accommodation, during this time was stressful for Mr F and his family. But as I 
said above, I need to bear in mind that this was for a relatively short  period of time. And that 
to a degree,  any upheaval or move related to a claim of this nature  is likely to be stressful.  
So I dont  think it would  be fair to ask L&G to compensate Mr and Mrs F for inconvenience 
and stress  which  is to be expected with claims such as this. What I need to consider is 
whether L&Gs actions caused or exacerbated this inconvenience. L&G has accepted  that it 
couldve provided better communication and that its actions caused some delays. And its 
recognised that the hotel accommodation wasnt suitable. So, keeping  this in mind  along 
with amount of time spent living at the hotel, Im satisfied that £300 fairly reflects the 
difficulties Mr and Mrs F experienced.  
Ref: DRN03302154my final decision
My final decision is that Legal  and General Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr and Mrs F £300  compensation. Legal and General Insurance  Limited must 
pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr and Mrs F 
accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple interest. 
pay travel costs  (subject to proof of payment)  incurred by Mr and Mrs F as a result of 
them and their daughter  staying  at the hotel.  Plus 8% a year simple interest from the 
date the costs were  incurred up until the date payment is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 December  2019.
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0330215