K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC)  wont  refund £37,328.04  that they 
lost when they were  the victims of a scam.  They are also unhappy with the level of customer 
service provided.   
Background
What Mr and Mrs D say
Mr and Mrs D have a joint account with HSBC and Mrs D has a sole account. In 2018  they 
had renovation work done at their house. In July of that year Mr and Mrs D received an 
email, forwarded from their project  manager, which they believed  to be from their builder 
chasing payment.  They  were  asked to pay the balance to a new account.  At the time Mrs D 
was away from home  and transferred funds via her mobile app in instalments, as limits  
applied to the amount she could transfer  in each transaction. Mrs D made the following 
payments:
Date Time Amount Account paid 
fromRemaining balance
12/07/18 08:08 £10,000 Account 1 - joint £36,346.28
12/07/18 08:18 £10,000 Account 2  sole 
(Mrs D)£366.94
13/07/18 07:37 £7,238.04 Account 2  sole 
(Mrs D)£276.94
13/07/18 07:38 £10,000 Account 1 - joint £18,714.14
Total £37,238.04
After a telephone call with the builder Mrs D found out shed been the victim  of a scam and 
contacted HSBC on 16 July 2018.  The project managers email account  had been  hacked 
and the emails Mr and Mrs D received requesting  payment were not in fact from the project 
manager. On the same  day HSBC contacted the receiving bank and their records show they 
were told no funds remained. Mrs D complained  to HSBC. She said HSBC didnt check  the 
payments were going to the company she named, had not done enough to recover her funds 
and provided poor customer  service.  Mrs D felt HSBC hadnt shown any sympathy  at a 
difficult time and hadnt kept her updated.  
HSBCs response
HSBC said it contacted the receiving bank on the day Mrs D reported  the scam,  but by that 
time the funds had been removed. Mrs D was unhappy with HSBCs response and brought  a 
complaint to this service.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator upheld  the complaint in part. She recommended that HSBC refund all but 
the first payment of £10,000.  The investigator  also awarded interest and £300 
compensation. She could understand why HSBC didnt flag the first payment, given there 
were regular high value payments from the account, and a genuine payment for the same 
amount was paid to the real builder  the day before. The investigator thought  the second 
payment should  have  been flagged by HSBC  though. It was made  from a different account 
Ref: DRN00900582with hardly any previous  high value transactions, other than a genuine payment to the real 
builder the day before.  Given  the payment was the second high-value  transaction  in two 
days, and that it was to a new payee, the investigator said HSBC should have flagged  it and 
warned Mr and Mrs D of its potentially fraudulent nature. Had HSBC  done so, the 
investigator felt Mr and Mrs D wouldnt  have  made  the second or any future payments. 
In terms of the service  provided to Mr and Mrs D by HSBC, the investigator concluded HSBC 
had reported the scam  to the receiving bank in reasonable time and done  what  it could to 
recover their funds.  HSBC also followed the correct processes and kept Mr and Mrs D 
updated during  the complaint process.  The receiving bank told HSBC  no funds remained, 
and it acted reasonably in relying  on this information. It has subsequently said £8,610.08 
remained and has asked  HSBC to claim it.  Finally, the investigator awarded  compensation 
as Mr and Mrs D were  without funds when they had to pay for a lot of building works and Mrs 
D was very distressed  by what had happened. 
Mr and Mrs D accepted  the investigators  findings, but HSBC did not. It asked for a final 
decision, so the complaint has been passed  to me to consider. HSBC  said:
-The investigator was seeking to apply  too high a standard of duty and failed to take in 
to account legal standards. HSBC said the BSI code relied on by the investigator is 
clear in the foreword  that it takes the form of guidance and recommendations. But it 
has been applied  as if it amounts to legal or other mandatory standards.
-If HSBC were to apply the standards suggested it would mean theyd  have to identify 
every potential  email diversion scam involving a high amount  to a new payee and 
stop all such payments, even though in the majority of cases a customer  wont  have  
received payee  details  by email. 
-In a civil court HSBCs actions would  be measured against the Quincecare duty, 
which says a bank  must  have reasonable grounds to consider the payment requests 
were an attempt to misappropriate funds  and they didnt.  HSBC  also said the 
Quincecare decision makes it clear that: the law should  not impose too burdensome 
an obligation  on bankers, which hampers the effective transacting of banking 
business unnecessarily and also that, to impose liability whenever  speculation 
might suggest dishonesty would impose  wholly impractical  standards  on bankers.
-The payments  werent flagged by HSBCs  fraud prevention system and HSBC had 
no way of knowing Mrs D hadnt verified the details. 
-The opinion is based on the fact HSBC  should  have identified  the payment from 
account 2 as suspected  fraud  because  it was the second payment for a large  amount  
to a new payee. Applying this standard to other payments would seriously  affect the 
efficient operation of the banking system.
-The investigator has failed to consider whether Mrs D acted negligently and hasnt 
provided evidence  of what she did to investigate the situation. It wasnt  clear what 
information Mrs D received from the builder,  why a second  payment was due only a 
day after a genuine payment or why Mrs D didnt seek to verify the details shed been 
given by telephone prior to payment.
-The investigator hadnt provided  any evidence  surrounding the hacking of Mrs Ds 
email account or whose  account was compromised. 
As HSBC did not accept  the investigators  assessment, Mr and Mrs Ds complaint was
Ref: DRN00900583been passed to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 22 October 2020 and 
said, 
In broad terms, the starting  position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story.  Taking  into account the law, regulators  rules and 
guidance, relevant  codes  of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with
Mr and Mrs D when they made the four payments, or whether it should have done  more than 
it did. I have considered the position carefully.
Did HSBC act fairly  and reasonably when it made the payments?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice HSBC should have 
been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. So Ive first considered 
whether the payment requests Mr and Mrs D made  were unusual  or uncharacteristic.  
Im satisfied:
-The first payment of £10,000 from account 1 wasnt  unusual given the previous 
transaction history. Ive set out some examples below:
Date Amount
30/04//18 £10,000
04/05/18 £10,262.62
10/05/18 £7,050.05
15/06/18 £15,154.84
Ref: DRN0090058403/07/18 £10,264.04
11/07/18 £10,000
In the months  before the scam  transaction  Mr and Mrs D made a number of genuine  
payments for around the same amount as that paid to the scammer. I appreciate  Mr 
and Mrs D paid £10,000 on consecutive days (to the genuine  builder and then to the 
scam builder) but I still dont consider  the payment was unusual. They also made 
high value payments  within a few days of each other in the period before the scam 
transaction. So, I cant say HSBC  acted unreasonably in not flagging  this payment. 
-The second payment of £10,000 from account  2  Mrs Ds sole account - was 
unusual in amount  and nature. Mrs D periodically  transferred funds in to this account 
and maintained a relatively modest  balance.  In the 12 months before the transaction 
was made, with the exception of credit card payments, Mrs D only made two 
significant payments.  One of these was to the real builder the day before the scam 
payment, and the other was a one-off payment  of £2,469.74.   After the scam 
payment of £10,000 Mrs D was left with a balance  of £366.94. A payment of £10,000 
from account 2 was significant  in itself, but the fact it was made the day after another 
payment for £10,000 makes it more  unusual. 
Did HSBC act reasonably in Mr and Mrs Ds case from the second  payment onwards
If a payment  is unusual,  Id expect a bank to contact its customer  about it and ask some 
questions. I concluded above  the second  payment  made by Mrs D was unusual.   
I consider HSBC ought reasonably to have been aware of this type of scam  and its 
increased prevalence   where an email invoice  includes  payment details not for the intended 
recipient but an unknown  third party. And I dont  think it would have  taken much  discussion 
for HSBC to be told Mr and Mrs D had received the invoice by email, and for it to have 
highlighted to Mr and Mrs D the possibility  that ought to have been well known to HSBC   
that the email  invoice  had been intercepted and the payment details changed, or the email 
wasnt from Mr and Mrs Ds builder at all; and for HSBC to have suggested to Mr and Mrs D 
that they confirm  the payment details directly with the builder before putting the payment 
through. 
Ive thought carefully about whether the kind of questions I believe ought fairly  and
reasonably to have  been  asked by HSBC would  have  made  a difference. The payments 
were sizeable, so I think that if HSBC had discussed  with Mr and Mrs D the kind of points 
Ive suggested  above they would most likely  have acted differently. I consider they would 
have taken simple steps to verify  the details  in which  case  they would  have realised in time 
the new account details were for an unknown third party. In these circumstances I dont 
believe Mr and Mrs D would have made the second  or any subsequent  payments.  
For all the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable, in the particular
circumstances of this complaint, to say HSBC ought to have done  more to help Mr and Mrs 
D. Had it done so, Im persuaded Mr and Mrs D wouldnt have suffered the loss of 
£27,238.04. HSBC should therefore  pay Mr and Mrs D £10,000 and Mrs D £17,238.04.
Ive considered HSBCs  comments  about the burden placed on it in identifying every  
potential email diversion scam.  And I accept theres a balance  to be struck between 
identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately 
Ref: DRN00900585to any concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments. Ive also thought 
about HSBCs assertion that its fraud  detection system didnt identify the transactions  as 
having high risk characteristics, and it had no way of knowing Mrs D hadnt verified the 
account details.  But I need to consider whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably  in all the 
circumstances. This is the case whether or not HSBCs  fraud detection systems identified 
the transactions. And HSBC  could have asked Mrs D if shed  verified the account details. 
In relation to the Quincecare duty,  I accept that HSBCs systems didnt identify any of Mr and 
Mrs Ds transactions as potentially fraudulent. But as Ive said,  Im persuaded the second 
payment was unusual  and HSBC  should  have asked further questions. And this service also 
considers what is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the case. 
HSBC say the investigator  applied the BSI code as if it amounted to legal or other mandatory 
standards. I dont agree.  The BSI Code  represents  good practice  and so is relevant to the 
determination of this complaint. It aims  to implement best practice  in systems and 
procedures to help prevent and detect fraud and financial abuse. But it isnt the only factor  
that Ive considered. 
In their response to the investigators opinion HSBC said it hadnt seen the information  Mr 
and Mrs D received from their builder and it wasnt clear  why a second  payment was due the 
day after a genuine  payment was made.  HSBC  has now been provided with the email  
correspondence between  Mr and Mrs D and the genuine and fraudulent builders. This 
demonstrates their property developers email was intercepted. Mr and Mrs D were asked to 
make payments to a new account. 
Mr and Mrs Ds total invoice was for £67,238.04. They  paid this sum over a few days and 
from separate accounts as they were  away and the maximum amount they could transfer at 
a time was £10,000.  
Finally, I thought about HSBCs concerns that Mr and Mrs D didnt do enough  to protect 
themselves from loss. Without knowing of the prevalence of email  intercept scams its 
understandable that Mr and Mrs D didnt think to check the invoice they received was in fact 
from the genuine builder. In the circumstances I dont consider  they acted unreasonably. 
Recovery of funds
Im satisfied that HSBC  did what it could  to try to recover  the money from the receiving
bank. After Mr and Mrs D contacted HSBC with concerns about the payment, HSBC 
contacted the receiving  bank promptly but unfortunately the payment could not be 
recovered. 
HSBC called the receiving bank at 10.55  on 16 July 2018 and its records  show  it was told no 
funds remained.  Im aware  the receiving bank  has recently given different advice and am 
uncertain why theres a discrepancy. The receiving bank has not retained  a copy  of the call, 
but it has a record  on 16 July saying HSBC called  about four fraudulent  payments. So, 
theres insufficient evidence to determine whether HSBC or the receiving bank are at fault. In 
the circumstances I consider HSBC acted reasonably in relying on the record  it made at the 
time. 
Customer service
Ref: DRN00900586Mr and Mrs D complained  that as well as failing to recover their funds in a timely way HSBC 
didnt keep them updated and added to the stress caused by the scam. I understand it was a 
very difficult time for Mr and Mrs D, and that they wanted to know  whether their funds could 
be recovered as soon as possible.  But I think HSBC acted reasonably and in line with their 
procedures. Mrs D reported  the scam to HSBC on 16 July 2018  and it contacted the 
receiving bank later that day. The receiving bank needs time to respond to requests like Mrs 
Ds, and a delay  of some weeks  is not unusual. Mrs D asked for an update  on 17 July and 
complained on 18 July 2018.  HSBC  then wrote to Mrs D on 23 July to say theyd been 
unable to recover any funds. Taking  everything  in to account I consider HSBC responded to 
Mr and Mrs D in a reasonable timescale.   
On 2 August  2018 HSBC told Mrs D it was unable to complete its complaint investigation in 
time and provide a full response, so advised Mrs D she could bring her complaint directly to 
this service. Mrs D says this shows a lack of concern on HSBCs behalf,  but I dont believe 
this was the case. I think HSBC advised  Mrs D of her rights so she could progress her 
complaint. HSBC then sent its final response letter on 18 August 2018.  
Trouble and upset  
Finally, Ive considered  whether HSBC should pay Mr and Mrs D compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience theyve experienced as a result of their actions. In considering 
whats fair compensation, Ive specifically thought about the impact of HSBCs actions, rather 
than the impact of the crime itself and Ive also taken into account that much of the distress 
and inconvenience  Mr and Mrs D have  experienced was ultimately  a result of the actions of 
a cruel scammer.
Overall, I think HSBCs failure  to act has had an impact on Mr and Mrs D. Mrs D, in 
particular, was clearly very distressed by the scam. And I think  the strain this placed her 
under couldve  been prevented if HSBC had acted as I think  it ought to have.  So for these 
reasons I think HSBC should pay Mr and Mrs D £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
Interest
On 15 June 2018 Mr D paid £100,000 in to his joint account with Mrs D from a savings 
account. A few days later the first payment was made to the genuine building company and 
in July payments  totalling over £70,000 were made to the genuine and scam builders. A 
further £17,328 was transferred from the joint account to Mrs Ds sole account in July 2018 
and then immediately  transferred to the scam builder.
So, all of the funds  paid to the fake building company came from the original £100,000 Mr D 
paid in to the joint account from his savings account.  On that basis Im minded to ask HSBC 
to pay interest at the rate the funds would  have accrued in the savings account Mr D 
transferred them from.  
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr and Mrs D accepted  my provisional decision and made  the following points:
-HSBC make no reference to the fact that the account name  Mrs D entered on the 
transaction wouldnt have matched up with the fraudulent recipient. 
Ref: DRN00900587-Mrs D paid in instalments as she was away  from home  and there were daily limits on 
the amount she could  transfer. 
-Mr and Mrs D dont agree that HSBC  provided  regular updates to them after they 
reported the fraud. 
-HSBC didnt contact  the receiving bank in a timely manner.  When  Mrs D contacted  
the receiving bank, she was told it hadnt heard from HSBC.
HSBC didnt accept  my provisional decision.  It said:
-I have applied too high a standard of duty on HSBC. I have referred  to the legal 
Quincecare standard, which  requires HSBC to have a reasonable suspicion a 
payment was an attempt to misappropriate  funds, but not gone on to properly apply 
this standard.  In my provisional decision  I didnt  suggest HSBC  had reasonable belief 
as described above. The legal duty is very strict, and a civil claim brought  by Mr and 
Mrs D would be bound to fail. 
-My provisional decision is based  on my belief that the second payment made by Mr 
and Mrs D should have  been identified as suspected  fraud simply because it was for 
a large amount and to a new payee.  Whether a payment is large  is subjective  - a 
payment for £1,000 on a current account  could be considered to be large. To satisfy  
this standard HSBC  would be required to classify as suspected  fraudulent activity all 
large payments  to new payees, contact the customer, discuss email intercept fraud 
and a plan of action. This would be the case even though prior to speaking  to the 
customer HSBC wouldnt know payment details were provided by email  and most 
customers wont receive payment details  this way. The conclusion is irrational and 
makes no sense.  Applying this standard to other  payments would cripple the effective 
operation of the banking system.  
-Legal standards are clear that HSBC should take a risk-based approach  which 
strikes a reasonable balance between following a customers  instructions and 
disrupting transactions. 
-HSBC referred to the BSI PAS Code and said that although it sets out guidance its 
been applied  as if it represents  mandatory  standards. 
-I should determine complaints by reference  to what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.  These  circumstances must  take in to account HSBCs 
ability to operate  a retail banking service for all its customers. 
-My provisional decision takes in to account a number of irrelevant considerations to 
reach an irrational  and unsupported conclusion.
-Ive failed to consider  whether Mr and Mrs D were grossly  negligent  and not properly 
considered contributory negligence. HSBC say there are a number of factors that 
should have raised  alarm bells with Mr and Mrs D and their project manager 
including the changed email address, the change  of payment details, the request for 
a payment to be canceled  and the fact an email was sent with urgency questioning 
the balance to be paid when Mr and Mrs D had already paid £30,000. HSBC said 
that Mr and Mrs Ds project manager and Mr D in his professional capacity are likely 
to be aware of email  intercept scams and should  have  asked  questions. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and
Ref: DRN00900588reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision  and for the same reasons. The points  raised 
by HSBC in response  to my provisional decision are largely the same as the ones it raised in 
response to the investigators opinion and so were covered in my provisional decision. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  taking into account the law, regulators  rules and 
guidance, relevant  codes  of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
I have considered HSBCs representations about the BSI Code. I didnt specifically  mention  
the Code in my provisional decision but will in any event cover  HSBCs point. The October 
2017 BSI Code gave recommendations to organisations  for protecting  customers from 
financial harm that might occur as a result of fraud  or financial abuse. It also gives  guidance 
on how to recognise  customers who might be at risk, how to assess the potential risks to the 
individual and how to take the necessary  actions  to prevent or minimise financial harm.  Im 
aware that HSBC  was not a signatory to the code. But Im required to take into account  what  
I consider to have been good industry  practice  at the time of the transaction  when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. And the BSI Code is a fair 
articulation of what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time of Mr As 
payment request, notwithstanding HSBCs submissions. 
Im aware that HSBC  considers too high a standard has been applied to what is expected of 
it in terms of identifying  payments  that might indicate  a consumer is at risk of financial harm;  
and it has referred to the Quincecare duty in support of its argument. I am mindful that the 
courts have  interpreted  Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this complaint are 
different to that case. Our fair and reasonable remit also enables us to take account of 
regulatory and industry  standards  beyond  the narrow legal duties considered  in that and 
other court cases. 
In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare  applies to this case, however the broad legal 
position that a bank  is expected to process payments that a customer  authorises is not 
absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and guidance,  relevant codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time) is an example of that.
Ref: DRN00900589As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice HSBC should have 
been on the lookout for uncharacteristic or unusual transactions. I maintain my view that the 
first payment  of £10,000 from Mr and Mrs Ds joint account wasnt uncharacteristic  or 
unusual and note that neither party has disputed this finding. 
HSBC has raised concerns about my finding that the second  payment of £10,000 from Mrs 
Ds sole account was unusual. It says I based this conclusion simply on the fact the payment 
was for a large  sum and to a new payee, but this wasnt the case.  I considered whether the 
payment was uncharacteristic and unusual  given Mrs Ds previous account and spending 
history. In the 12-month period before the transaction, apart from credit card payments, 
Mrs D had made one payment for just under  £2,500 and a £10,000  payment  to the genuine  
builder the day before  the second payment.  So the payment was unusual in terms of the 
amount, but also because  Mrs D had made  a payment  for the same  amount the day before. 
It also left Mrs D with a low balance.
Ive considered HSBCs  comments  about the potential detriment to customers if all payments 
such as Mr and Mrs Ds are verified before being  released. And I accept theres a balance  to 
be struck between identifying payments that could  potentially  be fraudulent  and then 
responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption  to legitimate 
payments.  
I dont expect banks  to distrust their customers;  or unreasonably disrupt transactions  that 
appear (and are) legitimate; or ignore the general  principle  that consumers must also take 
responsibility for their decisions and the payments they authorise.  But I do think there are 
certain cases where, on those specific facts,  it would have been fair and reasonable for a 
bank to take action.  I say this because the fraud  alerts that they are supposed  to deploy for 
regulatory and legal  reasons probably  could and should have been  triggered by transactions 
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic as to arouse reasonable  grounds for believing that 
the authorised  payment is in fact an attempt to misappropriate  funds.  
I accept HSBCs point that not all one-off high value transactions will involve email intercept 
scams. But I think the point is that HSBC has a responsibility to protect its customers from 
financial harm and intervene when a transaction is sufficiently unusual  or uncharacteristic to 
arouse reasonable grounds  for suspicion it is an attempt to misappropriate  funds. When  
HSBC contacts a customer,  it should  ask proportionate questions  to establish if the customer 
is at risk of fraud. There are other  types  of scam and HSBCs questions should  be tailored to 
the customers circumstances. Any warnings given should be appropriate to the potential  
scam involved, whether that be email  intercept or another type of scam. 
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im persuaded it would  have been fair and reasonable for 
HSBC to have  intervened  and asked discreet  questions about the second payment before  
processing it. Specifically,  I consider HSBC ought to have contacted Mrs D to question her 
about the purpose of the payment at the time and to have asked her some questions  about 
how she received  the invoice  and whether shed checked the account details with her 
builder. Had HSBC have done so, I believe its more likely than not the scam  would have  
become apparent and would have been  prevented. This is because  if shed been made 
aware of email intercept scams Mrs D could  have taken simple steps to contact the genuine 
builder and confirm  his account details.  Mr and Mrs D then wouldnt have made  the third and 
fourth payments either, so I consider HSBC should  refund them  too.  
Ref: DRN009005810HSBC has suggested  Mr and Mrs D may have been guilty of gross negligence.  The bar for 
gross negligence is high,  as it involves a disregard of the need to use reasonable care which 
is likely  to cause foreseeable loss or harm. I havent  seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr and Mrs D have acted with gross  negligence.  
I have also considered whether Mr and Mrs D should bear some  responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, a person needs to reasonably foresee the risk of some 
sort of loss  not necessarily the precise  loss that occurred  in order to be held liable in 
negligence. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to say that Mr and Mrs D were 
careless or partly responsible for a loss they simply didnt foresee. They had no knowledge 
of email intercept  scams and were  not advised by HSBC of the prevalence of them. I dont  
believe it can be assumed  that Mr D was aware  of email intercept scams  simply because of 
his profession and the knowledge of Mr and Mrs Ds project  manager  isnt relevant to 
whether Mr and Mrs D contributed to their own loss. 
The scam email Mr and Mrs D received  was from an email  address with only one letter 
different to the genuine address. In the circumstances I can understand  why they didnt  
notice the change. Builders do also change bank accounts sometimes or have more  than 
one account. Im also not persuaded that because Mr and Mrs D received  an email asking 
about the balance owed  a few minutes after Mr D sent an email  to say a payment had 
already been made, they should have been concerned enough to make further enquiries. 
Mr and Mrs D have said HSBC hasnt referred  to the fact the account name entered by 
Mrs D at the time of payment wouldnt have matched  the account the funds were sent to. At 
the time Mrs D made the payments a payment was correctly processed if it went  to the 
account number  and sort code instructed by the payer. There was no regulatory  requirement 
to check the beneficiary  name provided. 
Ive thought about Mrs Ds comment that HSBC didnt contact the receiving bank in a 
reasonable timescale. Mrs D reported  the scam to HSBC on 16 July 2018 and Ive seen 
evidence from HSBC  and the receiving bank  of a call between them at 11.05  on that day. So 
Im satisfied HSBC contacted the receiving bank  in a reasonable timescale. 
Overall, and for the reasons  set out in my provisional decision, I consider HSBC should  
refund to Mr and Mrs D the second,  third and fourth payments and pay them  £300  for the 
distress and inconvenience its actions caused.  I understand the receiving bank has now 
returned a sum of £8,610.08. This sum should be deducted from Mr and Mrs Ds settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive outlined above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC  UK Bank PLC 
to:
-Refund Mr and Mrs D £10,000 and Mrs D £17,238.04 less any sum returned  from the 
receiving bank;
-Add interest to these  amounts  at the rate the sums would have accrued in the 
savings account  Mr D transferred them from between the date of each transfer  and 
the date of settlement. If HSBC deducts  tax from this interest, it should provide Mr 
and Mrs D with an appropriate tax deduction  certificate;
-Pay Mr and Mrs D £300 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN009005811Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2021.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0090058