K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy about the advice he received in 2018 from Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited, which was misleading and meant  that he kept the policy in place for longer than he 
otherwise would have and borrowed against an incorrect expected maturity value.
background
Mr Hs policy  was arranged in 1994  with a target of £43,900 and a term of 25 years. It was a 
traditional with-profits arrangement where a basic sum assured was payable at maturity  plus 
any bonuses that had accumulated during the term and possibly a terminal bonus. The 
policy had a maturity  date of March 2019. 
In March 2018 Mr H called Aviva to ask some questions about  the policy. He wanted to know  
how much  it was worth if he cashed  it in that day  the surrender value. The member of staff 
at Aviva gave him the surrender value of £23,169  and confirmed  when asked that the 
maturity date was the following March. Mr H then put forward that the maturity value hed 
been led to believe  by earlier correspondence  he would receive was about a £1,000  more  
than the surrender value. He asked if there would be a bonus  added to that and it was 
confirmed that a terminal bonus would  be added.  
The Aviva member of staff confirmed that terminal bonuses werent guaranteed.  However,  
Aviva had been paying terminal  bonuses  for many  years  now and so one probably would be 
payable. She gave the rate that was at that point being paid on policies similar to Mr Hs  
48%. She said the rate would vary and so it couldnt be known what  percentage would be 
paid. Mr H then put forward  some figures  based on a maturity value of around  £24,000.  He 
checked the terminal bonus was calculated on the full value of the fund and it was confirmed 
that it was. This was incorrect as the percentage  bonus  rate quoted didnt apply  to the entire  
maturity value.
Mr H decided to leave  the policy in place until maturity. Hes told us he then borrowed 
£20,000 from his mortgage current account overdraft facility to help his son with his 
university costs. Mr H has said he did this as he worked out by September 2019  when  his 
mortgage was due to be repaid, the balance would have gone  down and the £36k he 
anticipated the maturity value to be would repay  both it and the overdraft.
The endowment policy matured with a value  of £26,600.
Aviva acknowledged  it hadnt given Mr H the right information in the telephone call. It said 
the information given about how the terminal bonus is calculated  was wrong and led Mr H to 
believe the terminal bonus that would  be paid on his policy  was higher  than it ended  up 
being. Aviva  offered him £200 for the inconvenience  this may have caused him. 
Mr H didnt accept Avivas  offer and referred the complaint to this service.  When doing  so he 
explained that hes withdrawn £20,000  from his mortgage current account to pay for his 
sons university fees and had intended  to use the funds from the endowment  to repay  the 
increased borrowing.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld.  Mr H 
didnt accept the investigators view. He said that in the telephone call the adviser had told 
him a figure for the value of the policy and that the terminal bonus would be added  to it. She 
told him the wrong figure  throughout. He said if he had been told the correct figure, he would 
Ref: DRN03140552have sold the policy and completely cleared his mortgage. Between mortgage payments, 
endowment premium and life cover costs he would have saved himself £15,000 over the 
18 months to the end of the mortgage  term. In addition, Mr H said he wouldnt have 
borrowed the additional £20,000  for his sons university costs   he told his son he didnt 
need to work  in his last year and could change accommodation based  on the conversation  
with Aviva.  He now has to tell his son none of that will now be possible.
Mr H said he had been told the job of this service  was to see if a consumer had been left in 
financial hardship or was to suffer  from the outcome. He thinks the offer Aviva made of £200 
is a slap in the face. As agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly clarify to Mr H the role of this service. We consider individual  complaints from 
consumers and other types of complainants. Where an error has been made by a financial 
services business we aim, as far as possible,  to put the consumer back in the position they 
would have been in but for the error.  We are not here to punish  financial services businesses 
for wrong-doing; that is the role of the industry  regulator. 
Aviva has admitted that its representative  agreed  with Mr Hs interpretation  of how the 
terminal bonus worked and she was wrong to do so. This raised his expectations about  the 
maturity value of his policy. However, this doesnt mean that it has to pay out the amount 
Mr H was expecting.  When considering  a complaint we aim to place a consumer back in the 
position they would have  been in, but for the mistake.  
In this case that was to confirm to Mr H that if a terminal  bonus was payable,  the percentage 
rate of that bonus would  be applied to the entire policy value rather  than just the basic  sum 
assured. However,  it was repeated to Mr H that a terminal  bonus  wasnt guaranteed to be 
paid, although  it was likely, and the amount of it wasnt  guaranteed. So Mr H knew  that the 
amount he was hoping the policy would provide wasnt guaranteed. 
It is possible that Mr H wouldnt have kept the policy going to maturity if hed known the 
correct way of calculating the terminal bonus and known that it was likely to be a lot smaller. 
However, he was aware that the amount he was hoping for wasnt guaranteed and might be 
a lot smaller and possibly  nothing at all. So I dont think it likely he would have been in a 
different position  in relation to what he would have done with the policy,  but for the error on 
the part of Aviva.
Mr H has said he relied on Avivas  mistake to his financial detriment as he wouldnt have 
committed to helping  his son had he not anticipated more money coming in from the maturity 
value of the policy. Whilst I think its plausible Mr H may not have made the commitments  he 
did had he known the maturity value was likely  to be lower  than he was hoping  for, I cant  
ignore that he knew that nothing above  the basic maturity value of the policy,  expected to be 
around £24,000, was guaranteed to be paid. On that basis, I cant  require  Aviva  to pay out 
any additional sums because there was never a guarantee that figure  was going to be 
reached.
Ref: DRN03140553I can understand that receiving a maturity value  of significantly less than was hoped for 
would be distressing. However, in light of my above  comments, I think the £200 offered by 
Aviva is sufficient to compensate for that distress. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept  or reject my decision before
2 August 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0314055