K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain Nationwide Building  Society  unfairly declined  their porting 
application.
background
Mr and Mrs R had a mortgage  with Nationwide. They wanted to move and to port their 
mortgage to the new property. The property  was situated on a site which was being 
developed for residential housing. On the site Japanese knotweed  had been discovered but 
it was 150 metres  from the property  Mr and Mrs R wished to buy. 
Nationwide requested an Insurance Backed Guarantee (IBG)  for a minimum of five years.  
But Mr and Mrs R reviewed Nationwides online guidance regarding Japanese knotweed 
which said where Japanese knotweed is more than seven metres from the property 
boundary: written confirmation is required from the applicant confirming that they are aware 
of the presence  of this invasive plant and the adverse affects  it could have on the property 
should it spread  closer.  The requirement  for an IBG in these circumstances  wasnt 
mentioned.
Although the Japanese knotweed had been  found more than seven metres away the 
Nationwide surveyor still thought there  should  be an IBG. Its reasoning  included  the risk of 
cross contamination which  it thought  was a very real possibility  on a new build site. When an 
IBG wasnt provided Nationwide declined their application to port the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs R were able to find a different lender  who would lend them the money to buy the 
property. They therefore redeemed their mortgage  with Nationwide  and had to pay an early 
redemption charge (ERC) of £4,781.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She could understand why 
Mr and Mrs R feel Nationwide has departed from the guidance on its website and that the 
conditions for the lending  were onerous. But she said its not for this service  to dictate 
lending terms and although Nationwide hadnt strictly adhered  to the guidance on the 
website, given the history  of the site she didnt  think it was unreasonable for it to ask for an 
IBG. Unfortunately  this couldnt  be provided, so after Mr and Mrs R chose to mortgage  the 
property through  another lender the ERC  was correctly  applied.
Mr and Mrs R disagree.  They say Nationwides  decision has never been fully explained.  
They think  its argument is weak and comes across as a case  of "just because  we can".  In 
their view it was unreasonable  to ask for an IBG given no other lender wanted one and so 
the builder would have to pay £10,000 for the sake of one purchaser. They find it interesting 
that Nationwide has now removed that guideline  and amended  it to discretion.  They  think 
that Nationwide acted so far from its guidance  that it is embarrassing. The area affected by 
Japanese knotweed  is set to become part of a communal area almost a decade after the 
initial discovery and destruction  of the Japanese  knotweed. Previously and currently it is 
nothing remotely akin to a communal area and is fenced off for working on. They  say there 
is, and always has been, literally zero chance of cross contamination as neither man nor 
beast can bring Japanese  knotweed on to the site as that whole area is out of bounds. So 
they refute  entirely  the issue  of the communal area and any cross  contamination.
Ref: DRN08161182They go on to explain why it was particularly important  for them  to buy this house.  They  feel 
Nationwide exercised discretion when not following  its guidelines but wouldnt exercise 
discretion and not apply the ERC. They feel this is unreasonable.

my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Rs frustration with Nationwide. From their point of view 
Nationwide hasnt followed  its own guidance  and they have ended  up having to pay an ERC. 
But I dont intend  to uphold this complaint. Ive reached this conclusion after asking myself 
two questions. Was Nationwide entitled  to decline to accept Mr and Mrs Rs property as 
security? And given  Mr and Mrs R redeemed the mortgage was Nationwide entitled to 
charge the ERC?
Was Nationwide entitled to decline to accept Mr and Mrs Rs property as security?  
Having looked  at the information Nationwide has provided I am satisfied it carefully  
considered whether or not to lend on the property. At the time of the application Nationwide 
took the view that it wouldnt  lend on the site as a whole  without  an IBG. It has confirmed  
that this isnt the only site where it has taken  this view. I think  it would have been helpful  if its 
guidelines had reflected  that it may take a different view particularly if a property is part of a 
new build  site. But I think it is reasonable for Nationwide to make its own assessment of its 
risk appetite regarding such  properties.  The fact that other lenders have different risk 
appetites on this subject doesnt  make Nationwides approach incorrect. 
I am also satisfied that  had this been a new application the application  would have been 
declined. That is to say Nationwide wasnt influenced to decline the application  by the fact 
that an ERC was payable.
And given  Mr and Mrs R redeemed the mortgage was Nationwide  entitled to charge the 
ERC?
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage offer was clear  that if they redeemed  the mortgage  early they 
would have to pay an ERC. Nationwide could,  as Mr and Mrs R have said,  have  exercised  
its discretion not to charge the ERC. But I cant say it was wrong not to do so. ERCs are 
intended to reflect the cost to the business of borrowers redeeming  a particular mortgage 
early. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Nationwide to refund the ERC when I dont think 
it was wrong to decline the application to port the mortgage.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2020.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0816118