K822xcomplaint
F, a limited company, acting by its director - Mr W, complains that TSB Bank Plc hasnt fairly 
compensated it for the difficulties  it had following a failure of TSBs online banking  platform.
background 
Fs complaint arises  out of the well publicised 2018 failure of TSBs IT system. 
TSB acknowledged F had suffered as a result and offered £500  to apologise for any 
problems it experienced. Mr W rejected the offer as the problems  continued for many  weeks  
after the offer was first made. And he didnt think the offer took into consideration the overall  
impact this had on F.
Two of our investigators reviewed the complaint.  And they both felt the £500 offered  by TSB 
was fair in the circumstances.  The second  investigator asked  for additional  information  from 
Mr W to evidence the problems hed told us about.  But, unfortunately, Mr W couldnt  supply 
this. 
Unhappy with the outcome, Mr W asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me start by saying  that I can completely appreciate why Mr W is unhappy. He had an 
awful time dealing  with this. And it was in no way his fault.  He doesnt consider that £500 is 
enough compensation for all the trouble that he experienced, the stress involved and the 
knock-on effect  this had to Fs business  relationships with its customers. 
The IT problems at TSB were unprecedented and F was not alone in experiencing significant  
difficulties in the wake of the incident. Our role at this service is to settle disputes between 
businesses and their customers informally, and without the need to resort to the Courts.  
Were not here to punish them for the mistakes they make.  But we can and do award 
compensation for the effect  that a business  actions  has on its customers.  That 
compensation can be for the trouble and upset caused to a customer and/or financial 
redress for any losses that a customer can show that theyve suffered. That could  be 
additional bank  charges,  lost business  opportunities, financial penalties,  etc.
Ive taken into account all the very unfortunate circumstances that Mr W has told us about.  
These included  having  to make numerous  phone calls; travel to the branch on many 
occasions  sometimes  with limited success;  asking customers to use Mr Ws personal 
account with the embarrassment this caused;  and problems more generally  with his 
business operations.  None  of these will have  been easy and they were exacerbated by the 
time that TSBs IT problems went on. So, they do warrant compensation for the trouble 
caused to F. 
Calculating compensation isnt an exact science. So, theres no formula that I can apply to 
determine what feels fair in the circumstances. What it is important I make clear though, is 
that given it is F that has brought the complaint, I can only award compensation for the effect  
on F. I appreciate that Mr W and his staff will have  been stressed and put out by all of this, 
Ref: DRN09354992but its how it affected F that I need  to determine. So, thats things like inconvenience,  
financial loss and damage to reputation, rather than any emotional  impact. 
Mr W has told us about several  consequences the IT issues  had for F. And Ive taken those 
into account. But, despite requesting evidence to show how Fs business had suffered as a 
result, unfortunately weve not been provided  with anything. So, Im afraid  I cant award any 
compensation for financial losses that Mr W says F suffered. I accept that there  was some 
considerable inconvenience  to F, and that includes the time taken by Mr W and other staff 
dealing with this.
Having thought about whether £500 compensation for this is fair, Mr W will be disappointed  
to hear that Ive decided it is. I appreciate that Mr W is unhappy with the amount and that the 
trouble went on for F for much longer than it should have. He thinks  that because  the offer 
was made  after two weeks, that means the problems  after that have been ignored. I can 
assure him they havent. But, considering other customers circumstances in complaints that 
weve seen here at the Service  about this incident,  and the amounts that weve awarded to 
them for similar amounts of inconvenience  over the same period, I do think that this amounts 
to fair compensation. 
my final decision
TSB Bank Plc has already  made  an offer to settle  this complaint. In all the circumstances, I 
consider that the compensation of £500 offered to F is fair.
Its my final decision that, if it hasnt already, TSB Bank Plc must pay the sum of £500 to F.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W, on behalf of 
F, to accept or reject my decision  before 8 January 2021.
James Kennard
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0935499