K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains on behalf of Mr and Mrs C, who are unhappy with the way that their park 
home insurance claim for storm damage  was dealt with by Society of Lloyds.
background
In February 2018  Mr and Mrs C raised a claim with Lloyds after Mr C went into the loft of 
their park home and discovered that the insulation was wet. Lloyds sent out a surveyor  to 
assess the damage. He said that the roof was likely to have  an inherent design flaw, rather 
than there  being  any insurable event. He said by looking up at the valley, it could be seen 
that the leadwork  detail  was quite shallow and didnt  lap under the tile-effect  cladding  by 
enough to stop any over-topping of the valley. Lloyds claim handler declined the claim in 
April 2018 as it said that no insurable event  had taken place  the damage  being likely to 
have been caused by a design flaw. It pointed  out two exclusions in the policy, in respect of 
gradually operating  cause  and faulty  design  or workmanship.
Mr C responded in August 2018  strongly disputing the conclusions  of the surveyor and his 
methods of assessing  the damage. Lloyds contacted  him and it was agreed that it would 
consider any further expert report Mr C might obtain as to the cause of the damage, after 
getting its surveyors comments. Mr C said he had had the roof assessed  by two contractors 
both of whom disputed that there  was any design  flaw. Lloyds responded in September 
2018, setting out the contents of the surveyors report and photos and the surveyors  further 
comments. It maintained  its position  that the claim must be declined. 
Mr C went ahead with some repairs  to the roof, consisting of extra sealing and cleaning out. 
The contractor (from the site company)  commented  on the invoice that the gullies were 
perfectly alright, not too small and in good  working order.  Mr and Mrs C felt that Lloyds 
should pay the cost of the preventative work,  totalling £2,600.
Mr and Mrs C escalated their complaint within Lloyds complaints handling procedure.  In its 
final response in December 2018  Lloyd's said it was satisfied the claim had been declined 
correctly within the terms and conditions of the policy.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Lloyds had acted reasonably. He 
didnt think that Mr and Mrs C had shown there  was an insurable event and specifically that 
they had said there  wasnt a storm but a period of heavy rainfall.
Mr D disputed that theyd  said there  wasnt a storm.  He said that the claim should be 
considered under the storm cover. He pointed out that the surveyor from Lloyds had been  
satisfied that there was storm  damage to their conservatory caused by a hail storm in 
November 2017  and this could have  been  the storm that caused the damage. He also said 
thered been maladministration on the part of Lloyds. It had taken until December 2018 for 
Lloyds to clarify the reason for the decline of the claim. In the meantime Mr and Mrs C were 
forced to pay for preventative work due to what Mr D described as misinformation  by Lloyds.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN08302452the declining  of the claim
Mr and Mrs C appear  to be confused  as to why Lloyds declined their claim. The reason 
given, which  I think Lloyds has been  consistent about from its initial decision is that there 
was no insurable  incident which caused the damage to the roof. The surveyor who went out 
also said that there was a design flaw to the gutters/valleys. This caused it to overflow during 
heavy rainfall. Whilst Mr C has strongly  criticised the surveyor and his methods of assessing 
the damage, that surveyor maintained his conclusion. Ive noted Mr Cs contractors 
comment that the gullies were  perfectly alright,  not too small and in good  working  order.  This 
was set out on the invoice  for the repairs. But this isnt an expert report  to counter  what 
Lloyds surveyor has said. Not least because  the opinion comes alongside a bill for work.
And it does  beg the question - if the drainage  of the roof was in good working order,  why 
repairs were needed.  Im inclined to think this was most likely because  the valleys  
overflowed during  heavy  weather which Mr C had noticed was happening more  frequently.  
As Lloyds  said this is general maintenance to the property. The policy  doesnt  cover  any 
liability for preventative  work, unless in some  circumstances this would be necessary to do 
an effective repair arising out of an accepted  claim. 
The policy covers damage  arising  out of certain events, all listed  in the policy. I dont think  
there was any external  damage as such but a system of roof drainage which  couldnt cope 
with heavy rainfall. I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on its experts view that this 
was a design flaw.
storm
Mr and Mrs C said to Lloyds that they werent claiming for storm damage. Mr D says that 
Lloyds should  have accepted the claim as storm damage.  He has pointed  out that the 
surveyor noted damage to their conservatory caused by a hailstorm  in November 2017.
Theres no definition of storm in the policy but our general approach  is to consider that a 
storm generally involves  violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. And for 
the policy to cover it there has to be a one off identified event of storm. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs C have identified a storm in November 2017, they didnt report  this claim 
until February 2018. At that time they said thered been recent heavy rainfall.  I dont think  the 
issue with the roof is related to the storm the previous November. It would be for the 
policyholders to show that they have a claim.
accidental damage
Mr and Mrs C have accidental damage  cover for both buildings  and contents.  The definition  
in the policy  is:
Damage  caused  suddenly by external means  which  is not expected and not deliberate.
Again the roof wasnt  damaged as such.  So the problem with the roof, which appeared to 
have been happening over a period  of time couldnt be said to have happened  suddenly. 
Mr and Mrs C confirmed to Lloyds that they werent  looking  to claim for any damage 
internally caused  by water coming  in.
Ref: DRN08302453maladministration
Mr D says that Mr and Mrs C have suffered  because  of the poor administration of the claim. 
He says Lloyds  didnt clarify the reason for the declining of the claim until its final response 
in December 2018. Mr and Mrs C had in the meantime  been forced to incur the expense of 
having the roof sealed because they were worried about further rain.
I dont think Lloyds position changed.  It was consistent in its initial letter  in April, its first 
response in September, its first stage  response in October and its final response  in 
December 2018  that there  was no cover under the policy for the damage claimed. Its final 
response referred to there having  been  potentially a design defect.  
Mr D was consistent in his answers,  that he didnt consider the survey to have been  done 
properly and doubted its conclusions. But I think the claim itself and the survey highlighted 
an issue with the roof which  although not covered  under the policy  wouldve been sensible  to 
resolve as a responsible home  owner.
I dont think Mr and Mrs C were forced into unnecessary expenditure. I would think  if the site 
contractors had thought this unnecessary they would have told Mr and Mrs C. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0830245