K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the amount of compensation MBNA Limited (MBNA) has paid to him 
for a mis-sold payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy that was associated with his credit  
card.
background
Mr D opened his credit card in May 1995  and at the same  time took out a PPI policy. When  
he complained  the PPI had been  mis-sold, MBNA agreed and offered to pay him 
compensation to settle his complaint. It paid this to him direct  by cheque in March 2017.
Mr D later checked his records and felt the offer wasnt fair compensation. He said it 
included compensatory  interest but only until 2004  and he felt the interest calculation should 
have been carried  out until 2017 when his complaint was settled. Also,  he didnt think the 
rate of interest MBNA had used was correct as he thought it should be a higher rate. 
When MBNA said it wouldnt  reconsider its offer, Mr D brought  his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator said they thought what MBNA  had paid was fair. Mr D didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr D first brought his complaint to this service in 2019  MBNA said this service 
shouldnt look at it. MBNA said Mr D was outside  the six months time limit given in the offer 
letter of February 2017  to bring a complaint about  that offer to this service. Following 
evidence of some exceptional circumstances MBNA withdrew its objection and agreed this 
service could look at the substance of the complaint. 
The PPI Mr D took out was paid for by a monthly premium being  added to his credit card 
balance. This meant he would pay interest on the premiums  unless  he had cleared his 
balance in full. Interest was added on the balance for everything included in it, which  was for 
the PPI and the other spending Mr D had made  on his account.  
MBNA has reconstructed  Mr Ds credit card account to show what it would have been if no 
PPI premiums had been added  and the interest  caused by these, known as associated  
interest, was also removed. This reconstruction showed the balance was lower and so the 
monthly repayments would also have been  lower. The difference in the monthly payment 
actually paid and what would have been  paid without PPI, has been taken by MBNA  to be 
the amount Mr D paid towards the costs  of the PPI each month and so was out of pocket for 
this extra  payment amount. 
I can see from the account information  that Mr D did not make payments to the account  
every month. Payments were  made  but on a semi-regular basis. The last payment made  
was in December  2003. The PPI last premium charged was in January 2004. The account  
was already in arrears  in 2003 and as payments stopped completely the account went  
further into debt.  
Ref: DRN00098522Interest and charges were  added to the balance until May 2004 and in June 2004  MBNA 
sold the debt to a third party.  The debt that was sold was for the total owing on the account 
which was £17,527.39. Once the debt was sold MBNA had no legal interest in it and has 
been paid nothing more for that debt since.
Mr D borrowed  the premiums for the PPI by adding them  to his credit card balance, this is 
why interest was caused by them. MBNA  has worked out the total charges for the PPI 
premiums added to the account balance was £6,325.50. These premiums caused interest of 
£7,230.67 whilst part of the balance on the account. So in total the PPI cost was £13,556.17.  
But Mr D did not pay all this back to MBNA, even though he borrowed this amount on his 
credit card.
Mr D did make payments to his account  in some  months and as I have indicated above  as 
part of his payment  he paid a little towards repaying  the costs  of the PPI in the balance.  
MBNAs calculations show that the extra amount Mr D paid as part of his payments for the 
PPI costs came to a total of £840.06.
It is only the £840.06 that Mr D has ever paid back to MBNA. The rest of the costs of the PPI 
remained in the balance of the account on which he defaulted and which was then sold. So 
Mr D was out of pocket only for the £840.06 and this is the amount that MBNA has worked  
out the compensatory interest  on.
To work out the compensatory  interest MBNA has in its calculations shown 8% simple 
interest per annum added each month for the amount Mr D was out of pocket in that month. 
It has carried on with that calculation to 2017  when it paid all the compensation to Mr D so 
he was out of pocket  no longer. 
For times  before June  2004 different amounts of compensatory  interest have been 
calculated based  on the amount Mr D was out of pocket in that particular  month. For every 
month from June 2004 (when the debt was sold) to February 2017, the 8% simple  interest  
works out at £5.65 each month and is based  on the total Mr D was out of pocket which was 
£840.06. In total the compensatory interest  it £1,263.71. 
The reason  MBNA has used the rate of 8% simple interest per year is because this is what  
has been accepted as a fair rate when someone is out of pocket, that is when they do not 
have the use of that money. For any times before April 1993 the accepted  rate is 15% simple 
per year, but this does not apply to Mr Ds case as his account only opened  in 1995. These 
rates are considered fair, being originally based on the rates the courts  used.
When MBNA sold the debt in 2004  most of the costs of the PPI were still in that debt as Mr D 
had not paid back everything  he had borrowed. Without the PPI the debt would still have 
been almost £5,000 for what Mr D owed without the PPI being  added to his account. It isnt 
known if Mr D has repaid the debt he owed in full to the third party. But the evidence  he has 
submitted, which  includes  letters from that third party, indicate that in December 2018 Mr D 
had not paid the debt.  So, he had not repaid the costs of the PPI and been  out of pocket for 
the full PPI costs  when  MBNA paid him the compensation in 2017.
This means  that MBNA has paid to Mr D the full PPI costs that he borrowed even though he 
never paid it all back. As MBNA had no legal interest in the debt after June 2004  it was 
obliged to pay the full costs of the mis-sold PPI to Mr D even though he had never actually 
paid for it all. As he was never out of pocket  for the full amount,  only the £840.60, he is not 
entitled to compensatory interest  on the amount of PPI in the debt.
Ref: DRN00098523I know Mr D has said he does not believe a financial  institution would refund money it has 
never received but, in these circumstances,  MBNA  is obliged to do so as the PPI was mis-
sold. This then allows Mr D to use this money  paid to him by MBNA  to reduce the PPI 
amount in the debt he still owes. MBNA  has no legal  connection any more with that debt so 
cannot directly remove the PPI from it. Therefore, it pays  Mr D the money so he can do that. 
It is his choice if he does  this, but he would still owe the full debt to the third party.
I hope I have addressed  Mr Ds points  about  why he did not receive  compensatory  interest  
after 2004  for the bulk of the PPI costs and also clarified the interest rates  used and how the 
calculations are made. I have looked  at Mr Ds calculations, but these obviously work out 
different figures  as he has based  his calculations  on the total cost of the PPI being paid by 
him which isnt what happened here. 
Overall looking at how MBNA has worked  out the compensation I am satisfied it is in line 
with what I would expect  and is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Mr D is not entitled  to compensatory interest on the full costs of the PPI as he never actually 
repaid this and so was out of pocket for all the PPI costs. He has been paid money by MBNA 
that he never repaid but that is means he can use it to reduce the debt sold by the amount of 
the PPI that remains  in that debt. 
What MBNA has paid and done is fair and so I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint that more  
compensation is due as I am satisfied that what MBNA Limited  has paid in compensation to 
Mr D is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0009852