K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain,  via their representative,  that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company 
Limited (LV) has unfairly declined their claim for subsidence damage to their conservatory 
under their home insurance  policy.
background
During the summer of 2018  Mr and Mrs J noticed  cracking to their conservatory and notified 
the LV who appointed loss adjusters to handle  the claim. The loss adjusters instructed 
engineers to report on the suspected  subsidence.
The engineers report states that subsidence may be due to inadequate construction,  but 
concludes; We believe that the recent extreme warm, unprecedented weather, has caused 
desiccation of the subsoil, which has possibly been  exacerbated  by the nearby trees  within 
the curtilage of the insureds site. And that the various trees  existing within the rear garden 
includes poplar  and conifer  trees.  The nearest tree is approximately  4900 mm away from the 
conservatory. This does  not appear  to have been the proximate  cause of the damage  but it 
is in possible influencing distance. Proper management, including pruning  to prevent it 
exceeding the current size is recommended. 
LV then obtained  a CCTV survey and trial pit and borehole investigation that concluded that 
the soil was desiccated. LV obtained a report from an arborist that said significant  vegetation  
was present with the potential to influence soil moisture  and volumes below foundation level. 
LV declined the claim, siting inadequate  design of the foundations which it said hadnt  taken  
into account the presence of mature trees and didnt comply with the relevant guidelines. LV 
relied on the exclusion clause within the policy: damage caused by poor workmanship, poor 
design or faulty material, including, inadequate  construction of foundations.
Mr and Mrs J appointed  their representative,  a construction  engineer, to review  the claim. He 
said LV has taken the view that Mr and Mrs Js conservatory is built upon a reinforced raft 
which is a faulty  design as it may not have allowed for the growth of vegetation in the vicinity. 
He said the conservatory was built 21 years  ago and although nearby vegetation had 
increased, this had been mature  for many years  and there had been no subsidence during 
that time.  He said this indicated that the reinforced  concrete  raft had proved  a satisfactory 
foundation. He said this was confirmed  by LVs own expert and so it should accept the claim.
Mr and Mrs Js representative said the primary cause of the movement was not the faulty 
design but the unprecedentedly  dry summer of 2018. He said LV hadnt recommended that 
vegetation near the conservatory should be controlled to prevent subsidence. He said the 
drawings and construction of the foundations had been set out by a civil engineer and were 
inspected and approved by the Building Control for the local authority.
Mr and Mrs J decided to remove nearby vegetation  as a precaution and incurred  costs  of 
£1,700. 
The investigator said the complaint should  be upheld. He said the planning application 
indicated no trees to be felled which showed  that nearby trees were not a problem when the 
conservatory was built. He said there  was a certificate of completion of the conservatory 
which followed an inspection and stated that the construction fully complied  with the building 
regulations. He said the conservatory has stood for twenty years without any issues.
Ref: DRN05686732The investigator said that the arborists report found that the dry summer in 2018  and the 
growth of nearby trees over a 20-year period had caused the subsidence. And so, it wasnt  
fair for LV to say the design  was faulty and the foundations inadequate.  He said LV should 
reconsider the claim and pay Mr and Mrs J £250  compensation  for their trouble and upset.
LV disagreed with the investigator.  It said the certificate of completion was for a two-storey 
extension, not the conservatory.  It said its not uncommon to see extensions passed as 
satisfying building  regulations but not taking in to account local trees.  It said the conservatory 
wasnt subject to building regulations but should still meet  the minimum recommended  
design, otherwise  its inevitable  the foundation will fail, as had happened here. LV said the 
trees pre-date the conservatory implying  a potential for damage  and the type of foundations  
constructed here meant  it was fully foreseeable that it would fail.
Because LV didnt accept  the investigators view the complaint has been  referred to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Both parties  agree that the damage to Mr and Mrs Js conservatory is due to subsidence. 
This is an insured  peril within  Mr and Mrs Js home insurance policy  and so they have 
shown, as is required, that an insured event  has taken place. For LV to decline the claim it 
must then show that an exclusion clause within the policy applies to the claim.
The exclusion clause states that claims for damage  occurring as a consequence of 
inadequate foundations will not be covered. I need to decide if it was correct for LV to apply 
the exclusion clause  in Mr and Mrs Js case and whether it has treated them fairly. For this 
Ive considered the cause of the subsidence  and the expert reports. 
LV said its engineers report showed  that subsidence was being  caused by vegetation 
located near to the conservatory.  It said this pre-dated  the conservatory  and so the 
foundations should have  been constructed with this in mind. I can see that the engineer 
speculates about  the impact  of nearby vegetation, but concludes that its the impact of 
extreme warm weather that has desiccated the subsoil. He, and the arborist said nearby 
vegetation may have  reduced moisture and soil volume around  the conservatory,  but the 
engineer concluded that the trees dont appear  to be the proximate cause of the damage.  
Mr and Mrs Js engineer  said the foundations of the conservatory  were adequate for the 
design of the building.  He said the vegetation was already mature  when the conservatory 
was built and there had been no subsidence for over 20 years showing that the foundations 
were adequate.
I havent found that the expert reports give much support to LVs application of the exclusion 
clause. LVs engineer  refers to the extremely dry weather as the main  cause  of the 
subsidence. Its well reported that insurers have seen an increase in claims concerning 
subsidence as a consequence of the prolonged hot summer of 2018 and Ive seen no 
reason to look for an alternative cause. 
I havent seen  anything from LV to show that the foundations werent  adequate according  to 
the building  requirements when the conservatory  was built. From what  Ive seen, Im 
Ref: DRN05686733satisfied that Mr and Mrs Js conservatory was constructed in accordance with the building  
requirements of the day.
Having stood for over 20 years without problems, I dont think it was reasonable for LV to 
say the structure  of the conservatory was inadequate. Having considered the evidence,  Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs Js engineers recommendation  that the claim be accepted is fair. It 
follows that I consider  Mr and Mrs Js subsidence  to be an insured risk that their home  
insurance policy should cover. 
  
I think that it was unfair of LV to decline the claim and Mr and Mrs J, who are elderly, said 
this has prolonged  their anxiety. I think LV should  pay Mr and Mrs J £250 compensation for 
the impact its treatment of their claim has had upon  them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited to accept Mr and Mrs Js claim for 
subsidence damage and to reimburse them for the costs they incurred  (£1,700)  for the 
removal of vegetation  near their conservatory. Mr and Mrs J should provide the insurer a 
copy of their invoice for this work.
I also require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs J 
compensation of £250 for the prolonged distress and inconvenience they have suffered as a 
consequence of the way in which their claim has been handled.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0568673