K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about one open  ended credit facility and twenty-eight  high-cost short term 
credit loans that Sunny provided  to Mr S from August  2013  onwards. Mr S last loan was 
provided in April 2018. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr S complaint and thought he shouldnt  have  been  provided with 
any further credit from the tenth  drawdown  on the open-ended credit facility.  Sunny didnt 
agree with our adjudicators assessment in full. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr S, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr S was unlikely  to have been  able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided the tenth drawdown on the open  ended credit 
facility in June  2014. 
Ref: DRN09156772I say this because  by this stage, it ought to have  been  apparent to Sunny  that use of his 
open-ended facility suggested that there was no reasonable prospect of him clearing  the 
balance within a reasonable  period of time.  And it also ought to have been apparent  that    
Mr S was relying on the facility too. 
Sunny then transitioned Mr S from a facility which its own product literature said shouldnt be 
used for extended  periods to a series of instalment loans which had the same  effect. Mr S 
then exhibited a borrowing  pattern  of taking out further loans  not too long after repaying  
previous ones. Some of them were  even provided when Mr S already had an outstanding 
balance on an existing  loan. Sunny  continued lending  to Mr S even when  this pattern was 
repeated and for a period of almost five years, in circumstances where it ought reasonably to 
have realised that any further  loans were more likely than not unsustainable for him. 
Mr S had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny  shouldnt  have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on all products from 2 June 2014 onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr S credit file as a result  of the 
running account facility.
the number  of loans provided means that any information recorded  about loans to 2 
to 28 on Mr S credit file is likely to be adverse. So all reference to these loans should 
be removed from Mr Ss credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr S complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mr S compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0915677