K821x#15complaint
Mrs P says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold her payment  protection  insurance (PPI).
background
Mrs P took out the PPI at the same time as she applied for a mortgage over the phone  in 
January 2009.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Ps complaint upheld  it. Barclays  disagrees, so Mrs Ps 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI. This means  it needed to make sure the policy was 
right for Mrs P in her circumstances. From  the information I have, I dont  think its likely it did.
Mrs P says she had a medical  condition when she bought the PPI, which had been 
diagnosed the previous year. And she says shed had time off work  because of it during the 
year. The PPI didnt  cover  Mrs P for medical  conditions shed seen a doctor about or got 
treatment or medication for in the 12 months before the policy  started  unless, at the time 
she claimed, shed  been  symptom-free for two years. 
I think this exclusion wouldve mattered to Mrs P. Thats because I think shes likely to have 
thought her medical condition, which was ongoing and for which  she says shed already had 
time off work, would be one of the main reasons she might need  to claim on the PPI. I 
wouldve expected  Barclays to advise Mrs P that, because of this, it might not be suitable for 
her.
Barclays says it doesnt have a recording of its call with Mrs P. But it has sent us some  notes  
from the time. I can see from these Mrs P disclosed shed  had an illness. But I cant see 
Barclays advised Mrs P the PPI might not be right for her because  she wouldnt be covered 
for it. Had it done so, I think its unlikely  Mrs P wouldve bought  it. It follows  that I think  Mrs P 
has lost out because of what Barclays did wrong  and so it should put things right.
putting things right
Barclays should put Mrs P in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. I 
understand the policy has been cancelled already, so Barclays  should:
Pay Mrs P the amount  she paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
Ref: DRN04399212If Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. It can also take off any amount it has paid Mrs P 
in relation to commission.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays must  give    
Mrs P a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint  and direct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to 
put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0439921