K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that Studio Retail Limited  (Studio) lent to her in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Mrs K was provided with a catalogue shopping  account by Studio in October  2008.  Her 
credit limit was initially set at £80 and was then increased almost monthly until it reached 
£726 in December 2009. There  was a large increase in the credit limit to £1,286 in 
January 2010,  with further increases in the following months  before the limit reached £1,950 
in November 2010.
The credit limit remained at that level for around a year before  being reduced in April 2012. It 
started to rise again around  four months later peaking at £1,576 in October 2012 before 
stabilising at £1,280 in March 2013. It remained around that level for the rest of the time 
Mrs K held the account. Around that time Studio had restricted Mrs Ks use of the account 
and she wasnt allowed to make  any new purchases.
Mrs Ks account was defaulted in August 2017. Her outstanding balance  was transferred to a 
third-party debt collection  company.  A balance remained outstanding  when she brought  her 
complaint to this Service.
Mrs Ks complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He didnt think Studios 
initial decision to open an account for Mrs K was unreasonable. And he hadnt seen any 
evidence to make him think the early credit  limit increases hadnt been  made  responsibly.  
But he thought  that by the time the credit limit was increased in November  2010  Studio 
should have realised that Mrs K was becoming reliant on this credit and so shouldnt  have 
agreed that increase. And he thought  that by January 2011 Studio should  have reached the 
conclusion that Mrs K would be unable to repay  what shed borrowed in a sustainable 
manner. So Studio should have  stopped  offering further credit at that point  and prevented 
Mrs K from making any new purchases using  the account. So he asked Studio to put things 
right for Mrs K.
Studio let us know that it intended to complete  a further investigation on the complaint.  But 
since then it has failed  to provide any further  response to the assessment. So, as the 
complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mrs K accepts  my decision it is legally binding  
on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mrs Ks complaint.
The regulations regarding lending of this type were evolving at the early stages of Mrs Ks 
agreement with Studio.  But certainly by 2010  the rules and regulations  required Studio to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mrs K could afford to repay 
what she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment  or affordability  check. The check needed to be completed at the 
outset of a relationship and each time there  was a significant increase in the credit limit. 
Ref: DRN01785512Studio also needed to monitor  the account  for any signs that Mrs K was struggling  to 
manage the credit shed  been given.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so Studio had to think  about whether repaying  
the credit  sustainably would cause difficulties  or adverse  consequences  for Mrs K. In 
practice this meant that Studio had to ensure that making the required repayments wouldnt 
cause Mrs K undue  difficulty or adverse consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for 
Studio to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back,  it had to consider the 
impact of any repayments on Mrs K. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances at that time. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate affordability  check will be dependent  upon a number of 
factors including  but not limited  to  the particular circumstances of the consumer  (e.g. 
their financial  history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications  of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be, or has been, indebted for 
(reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the 
customer is required to make repayments  for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether Studio did what it needed  to before agreeing to 
open an account for Mrs K, and to agree  the subsequent increases to her credit limit.
Given the time that has elapsed since the account  was first opened, Studio has told us that it 
has little evidence of the checks that it performed to ensure that Mrs K would be able to 
repay the credit in a sustainable  manner.  But it says that it would have used information  from 
a credit reference agency to help determine the state of Mrs Ks finances.
I dont draw any adverse  conclusions from Studios  inability to provide me with the results of 
its checks. But without  that information it would be difficult to fairly  conclude that the checks 
it did were proportionate. It doesnt seem to have gathered  any information from Mrs K about 
her specific  circumstances.  
But the credit limit it agreed  when the account  was first opened was relatively small - I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Studio to ask Mrs K for the amount of information 
that would  be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before opening the account.  
So I dont  think the original lending decision should  cause me any great concerns.
And I think the same applies  to the increases to the credit limit that took place over the 
following two years, and particularly  in the light of the relevant regulations  only recently  being  
Ref: DRN01785513finalised. During that time Mrs K appears to have  operated her account relatively well, 
maintaining its balance within the agreed  credit limit, and generally making the required 
repayments on time. Although I think Studio should  have started to become increasingly  
concerned that Mrs K wasnt  making  any inroads into repaying  what she owed, and her 
outstanding balance was steadily increasing, I dont think it unfair that Studio continued to 
offer, and increase, the credit to Mrs K.
Studio increased  Mrs Ks credit limit to £1,950  in November  2010. By then she had been  
borrowing for more than two years, and had made  little progress in reducing her outstanding 
balance. In fact over the whole of that period  there had only been  a handful of occasions 
when Mrs Ks balance  had fallen month to month,  and even  then the reduction usually 
amounted to just a few pounds.
Studio was required to ensure that Mrs K would be able to repay what  she owed over a 
reasonable period of time.  So I would expect to see that Mrs Ks balance  was fluctuating with 
periods where  she owed  much less than the credit limit she had been granted. As Ive 
explained above, that pattern was not shown by Mrs Ks borrowing. So that didnt suggest  
that she would find it possible  to repay  what she owed in a sustainable manner over a 
reasonable period of time.  Although it does seem that she was meeting the minimum 
repayments that the agreement required her to make,  her debt appears to have been 
increasing unsustainably. So I dont think it was reasonable for Studio to increase the credit 
limit at that time.
I think there also comes a point where a lender needs to decide that simply maintaining a 
credit limit isnt enough. Where a consumer is making no progress in reducing  their 
outstanding balance over a period of time it is generally a sign they are facing severe 
problems managing their finances. The availability of new credit needs to be withdrawn and 
a lender needs to show forbearance  and stop adding interest to the account. That would 
mean that any payments made by the consumer  would  be used to reduce the outstanding 
balance rather than meet the purchase  price  of new goods or historic interest charges. Here, 
I agree  with our adjudicator that point had been reached by January 2011. 
By that time Mrs K had been borrowing from Studio for well over two years. She continued to 
show no evidence of her ability  to repay what she owed. As soon as her credit  limit had been  
increased in November she quickly spent more, and increased her outstanding balance  back 
towards its maximum permitted level. I think that should have  led to Studio curtailing the 
credit it was offering  to Mrs K. I dont think it was appropriate for it to allow her to continue  to 
make new purchases with the account,  without a significant and sustained reduction in what  
she owed. In my view Studios actions  unfairly  prolonged  Mrs Ks indebtedness  by allowing 
her to use credit she couldnt  afford and the interest  being added got her into further  debt.
So in summary,  I dont think Studio should have  increased the credit limit on Mrs Ks account 
after, and including, the increase in November 2010. And I think  it should  have stopped  
adding interest to the account and letting  Mrs K take any further credit from January 2011.  
So I uphold part of Mrs Ks complaint  and Studio needs to pay her some  compensation.
Ref: DRN01785514putting things right 
I dont think that Studio  should have increased  Mrs Ks credit  limit in, or after, 
November 2010.  And I think  Studio should  have exercised forbearance  and also not allowed 
Mrs K to make any further use of the credit  facility after January 2011. So, to put things  right, 
Studio should  reconstruct  Mrs Ks account  by making the following adjustments;
rework the account to ensure that from November 2010 to Janaury 2011 interest is 
only charged on the first £1,623 outstanding to reflect  the fact that no further credit 
limit increases should have been  provided.  The rework should  then factor in that no 
interest at all should have been  charged on the account from January 2011  onwards.  
All late payment  and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding  balance remains on the account once these adjustments  have been 
made Studio should contact Mrs K to arrange  a suitable repayment plan for this. If 
Studio considers it appropriate to record negative information  on Mrs Ks credit file, it 
should backdate this to November  2010.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer being  
an outstanding  balance, then any extra should  be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mrs K, along with 8% simple  interest  on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were)  until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Studio should  remove any 
adverse information  from Mrs Ks credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio to take off tax from this interest. Studio must give 
Mrs K a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
From what  Ive seen, Studio sold the outstanding balance on this account  to a third-party 
debt purchaser.  So it either needs  to buy the account back  from the third party and make the 
necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make the 
necessary adjustments, or pay Mrs K an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this 
direction.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mrs Ks complaint and direct  Studio Retail  Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0178551