K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) has failed to provide 
answers to his complaint and has provided him with a poor level of service. He says hes 
had conflicting  information about  the term of his pension  plan,  the final premium due on the 
plan, and the actual plan value. He says Scottish  Widows has failed to provide an 
explanation for these  discrepancies. He would like satisfactory responses to his questions 
and compensation  for the inconvenience hes suffered. 
background
Mr J took out a retirement annuity  contract with Scottish Widows on 8 February 1988. It had 
a retirement date of 23 March 2019   his 65th birthday.  In  2001 Mr J applied  to increase his 
contributions to £500 per month  in total.  Scottish Widows issued a policy detail summary 
which confirmed the new regular monthly  premium,  split between unit linked and with profits 
funds, was then £495.40.
In October  2018 Scottish Widows sent Mr J a pre-retirement pack  as it was around six 
months before he was due to draw  his benefits. It suggested that the policy could be brought  
up to a 32-year  term by paying a final proportionate  premium (FPP) of £3,040.  
In early February 2019 Scottish Widows sent Mr J details of his plan value and invited him to 
contact it to set up his annuity.  Two letters were sent with differing plan values which  
represented the original FPP and a revised  one which included an additional premium for the 
increase that Mr J made to his plan in March 2001. Around the same time Mr J called 
Scottish Widows  to discuss  his retirement options and became aware of the revised FPP 
during the call  so he complained.
Scottish Widows  explained that the final premium was required to bring  the plan up to a term 
of 32 years as the actual  term of his plan was 31 years and one month at the maturity date. 
But it said that the final premium was optional  and if it wasnt  paid the maturity  value  of the 
plan would be adjusted  accordingly. It also said that the reason  the previous final premium 
figure had been  lower  was that it hadnt  included the increment from March 2001  which  it 
accepted had been an error. 
Mr J said that the term of the plan was 31 years and not 32. He said he wanted to pay the 
final premium  but wasnt  satisfied with Scottish Widows answer about the March increment 
as he said that had already been  included in the letter  of 23 October 2018. He disputed the 
higher premium hed been quoted and said Scottish  Widows  hadnt  explained how it came 
up with that figure.
Mr J also asked for an explanation for why the plan value hed been given in a letter  dated  
5 February 2019   which Scottish Widows then told him was only a projected value in a 
telephone conversation three days later, fell by around  £7,000 in another letter he then 
received following the telephone conversation.  He also complained  that Scottish Widows 
had continued  to call him to discuss  the matter when it had said it would communicate by 
email and in writing.
In March 2019 Scottish Widows upheld Mr Js complaint in so much as it offered £250  for the 
inconvenience hed suffered during his experience.  It made the following points in relation to 
the whole  complaint.
Ref: DRN09532552It had received Mr Js cheque for the outstanding last premium  and clarified  how the 
existing policy premium plus the incremental premium from 2001  meant  that the 
amount owed was correct. It explained  that previous figures didnt include the 
increment. 
It accepted that its staff could have provided  more accurate information about  the 
plan values at various  times. It accepted that the value was instrumental  in Mr J 
deciding about  drawing his benefits and therefore  needed to be accurate. But it said 
those plans values  arent guaranteed  and can fluctuate up to the point that benefits 
are taken.  It confirmed the final value  was correct but accepted  that it shouldnt have 
said that a value could have been  obtained  over the phone in February 2019.
Mr J didnt agree with the response. He said he wanted £10,000 compensation for the time 
and trouble he had taken  in sorting  out his plan. He said Scottish Widows had made 
mistakes with the final premiums payable,  the term of the plan,  and conflicting  plan values in 
letters dated  the same  day. He wanted  Scottish Widows to provide  a full breakdown of his 
plan including  how the premiums had been applied. He also wanted  information on the 
guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) that applied to his plan and confirmation of when he would 
receive the tax-free cash an annuity.  Unhappy with the outcome Mr J brought  his complaint 
to us and summarised  it as follows:
The first premium for the pension was taken in March 1988 and the last was due in 
March 2019. Therefore, the term of the plan was 31 years  and not 32 as Scottish 
Widows had maintained.
In order to get the benefit from a term of 32 years  he needed to pay a final premium. 
But hes been  advised of amounts ranging  from £506.60 to £5,449.40  and received  
no explanation  for the difference or been  shown how the figures  were  arrived  at.
Hed received two letters from Scottish Widows  on the same day, showing plan 
values with a difference of around  £8,331.  
Hed lost confidence  in Scottish Widows  ability to resolve these issues and wanted us 
to help with matters. He said Scottish  Widows had accepted it had provided him with 
poor levels of service.
He wanted  to ensure he didnt suffer financially as a result of Scottish  Widows action. 
He noted that his plan included  guaranteed annuity  rates  (GARs) which needed  to 
be accessed at a certain age. 
Mr J paid the FPP of £5,449.40 on 5 March  and received his tax-free  cash  on 
29 March 2019  with the funds then provided  to set up his annuity from 23 April 2019.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Js complaint and said she thought Scottish  Widows  
had taken appropriate steps  to correct its errors. She said:
She thought  that Mr J and Scottish Widows  differed  in the way it calculated the term 
of his plan but that didnt mean hed defaulted  on his premiums.
She was satisfied that the FPP had been calculated correctly  and that the terms and 
conditions of the policy allowed for it to be paid. 
She thought  Scottish Widows had addressed the complaint within the required 
timescale and had paid the tax-free lump  sum and annuity within  a reasonable 
timescale after receiving payment for the FPP.
She thought  the overall offer of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused  by 
the incorrect information and poor service was fair.
Mr J didnt agree. He made the following points in response:
Ref: DRN09532553He was 33 years old when he took the policy out and 64 when he paid the final 
premium, so the term of the plan was 31 years. 
The investigator hadnt explained how the FPP of £5,449.40 was calculated  or why it 
was confirmed to him on the telephone that the figure of £3,040  was correct.
We hadnt dealt  with Scottish Widows  inconsistent and conflicting information. 
Scottish Widows  hadnt provided  the breakdown of premium payments that hed 
requested. 
We hadnt fully investigated the complaint point about the differing plan valuations.  
The compensation offered was derisory and should be increased. He thought  it was 
reasonable to use his professional hourly  rate as a basis on which  to calculate the 
amount of compensation he thought was reasonable.
Mr J asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint, so its been passed to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen how strongly Mr J feels about this situation. Hes made  a number of detailed 
points, which  I have  read and considered. I hope  the fact that I do not respond in a similar 
detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we 
are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable  conclusion  with the minimum of formality. In 
doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond  to every point made, but to concentrate  on 
the crux of the issue.
The term of the plan
Mr J received an email from Scottish Widows  in February  2019  which  stated that the term of 
the policy was 32 years. But he says it was 31 years with the last premium due to be made 
on 8 March 2019. And I can see how strongly  Mr J feels  about this point. But I dont  think  
Scottish Widows  has done anything wrong  regarding this matter. When Mr J took out the 
policy in February 1988  he agreed  to run it until his 65th birthday in March 2019. 
This meant the term of the plan was 31 years and one further  month. Scottish Widows says 
its policy is to only accept  plans for full years as the premiums  are actually calculated 
annually. So, it required Mr J to pay an additional FPP of 11 months worth of premiums  to 
bring the total up to a full 32 years.  
I understand Mr J could have refused to make  the payment and his benefit would have been  
recalculated but theres no dispute here that he did make the additional FPP. So, it wasnt  a 
case that the policy was 31 years  or 32 years in term, but a question  of the premiums 
required to fit in with Scottish  Widows  policy. And I think  thats a commercial decision that 
Scottish Widows  is entitled to make and we wouldnt normally interfere in such  a decision as 
long as its communicated to consumers which, in this case, I think  it was through the policy 
provisions and subsequent illustrations.  Scottish  Widows has confirmed that the payment 
was optional and that if Mr J hadnt  wanted  to pay it then he wouldnt been asked to do so.
But in any case,  even if accept that the term of the policy is 31 years,  the benefit Mr J 
received, around  his 65th birthday, was based  purely on the size of the pension fund that he 
was able to establish. Theres no suggestion  that Mr J hasnt fulfilled his commitment  to 
Ref: DRN09532554maintain premiums and hes been able to contribute to his pension fund  past his 65th 
birthday, which  has meant that his fund had the potential to be greater.  
The amount  of the final premium
Mr J says that, over the years, hes been provided  with several  variations  on the FPP he 
might have to pay. And he says that when Scottish Widows made him aware of the final 
value of £5,544.40 it didnt provide a breakdown  of how it arrived at this figure  and didnt 
explain why he should pay the premium as there  wasnt  actually a shortfall.  Scottish Widows 
says it did quote  a figure of £3,040 originally but didnt include the increase  in premium from 
March 2001. When it realised this error it updated  Mr J with the correct final premium of 
£5,449.40 which included the increment.
Ive seen a copy  of the illustration that was sent to Mr J in October 2018 as part of a pre- 
retirement pack.  It explained that the GAR  was only available  at the policy retirement age 
and stated that the plan was a monthly  premium  policy and we have  assumed that the 
contributions are paid in full including the final special premium  of £3,040.40 due on 
8 March before you retire.  Please  refer to the policy  provisions for further details.  
So, Ive further  considered the policy provisions that were available to Mr J when he first took 
out his plan. Section 1 entitled  premiums  states  that:
Unit-linked and with profits benefit premiums  will be payable
(a) up to and including the date of the Grantee's death, or
(b) up to but not including the date of entry on pension, or
(c) up to but not including the original pension date (the deferred pension  date if entry on 
pension has been  deferred under provision 5.2), whichever is the earliest.  
If recurring premiums are payable  monthly  a special final premium  will be payable on the 
due date immediately  prior to entry  on pension  on the original pension date (the deferred 
pension date if entry on pension  has been  deferred). The amount of the special premium  will 
be equal to the monthly  recurring  premium  multiplied  by the number of months between that 
due date and the immediately following anniversary of the date of entry. 
Ive seen a copy  of a letter that Scottish Widows sent to Mr J in June 2002 which states  that 
the value assumes that the monthly  premium  of £506.60 due on 8 March 2019 has been 
paid for this policy. 
Mr J has referred  to this as being the first reference (of many)  to differing FPPs but I note 
this refers to a monthly premium as opposed  to the later values which refer to the FPP 
required to bring  the term up to 32 years.  The accompanying  illustration did also refer to 
contributions paid in full including the final special  premium of £5,449.40  due on 
8 March 2019. So, I think Scottish  Widows did make  Mr J aware of this FPP  and how 
much it would be back in 2002. 
 
From the evidence Ive seen, its clear that within its pre-retirement information Scottish 
Widows did initially  refer to an FPP of £3,040 which it corrected to £5,544.40.   So, it did 
provide Mr J with conflicting  information.  But I think Scottish Widows  has acknowledged that 
and included  the impact of this error  within its overall  offer for the distress and inconvenience  
caused. Im satisfied that Scottish Widows has explained this discrepancy and Im also 
satisfied with the evidence its provided  to show the corrected FPP. 
Ref: DRN09532555Ultimately, I think  thats the amount Mr J should  have paid  if he did in fact want  to make 
what was an optional  payment, in order to ensure his plan reflected  premiums of 32 years.  I 
note Mr J said in his complaint letter that I want to pay the final premium and want  to take 
the full benefits that I am entitled to under the policy but want  to be sure that the final 
premium I pay is for the correct amount. So, Im satisfied that Mr J saw the benefit of paying  
the additional FPP to his plan and didnt want the value to be calculated  simply on 31 years 
worth of premiums. So as Scottish  Widows  gave  Mr J the opportunity to pay the FPP  and 
Im satisfied its provided the correct figure in the end  I dont think Scottish Widows has 
done anything  wrong on this matter.  
The difference in the plan values 
Mr J says he received two letters with the same date which  contained two different plan 
values. The difference was over £8,000. Mr J says he hasnt received a satisfactory 
explanation for that and further  he says hes lost confidence in any of Scottish Widows plan 
figures. Scottish Widows says the value of the plan cant be guaranteed until it receives all 
the outstanding requirements to set up the annuity  and it made Mr J aware  of that. But it 
accepted that it should  have made him aware that it doesnt automatically update the 
valuations every time it gives out a telephone valuation.
Looking at the statements Mr J received  I think Scottish  Widows  made  it clear  that plan 
values werent guaranteed. This is evidenced by the fact that the final value that was used 
was slightly less than the higher valued  quoted in February 2019. Theres  no doubt  that the 
two letters  quoted different values, although  I note that one was a current plan value and the 
other was an open market  valuation. Scottish  Widows  says this the difference  is because  
one was based on a last premium paid date of 8 January 2019 and the other  was the value 
that the plan could be in March 2019  based  upon  a further monthly  premium  and the FPP 
payment as well. 
Im satisfied with Scottish Widows explanation for the difference in values, but I think  it 
should have been clearer in explaining  this to Mr J instead of sending  him two letters on the 
same date which included  little or no reason  for the not insignificant difference of around 
£8,000. So, I think this would have added  to Mr Js general concern  and frustration at his 
experience at that point. 
But Mr J also says the difference in valuation affected his decision making  process and may 
have led to him receiving  less than he should have received. So, Ive thought  about  that 
situation. But I think, based on all the evidence Ive seen, that Mr J wanted to draw his 
benefits at that time on his 65th birthday. Ive seen  no persuasive evidence  to suggest he 
might have deferred his plan based on the plan value at the time. So, I think  Mr J was more  
likely than not to have taken his benefits  at that point even  if the value of his plan fell.     
Scottish Widows  errors and level of service 
Scottish Widows  accepted that it had failed to provide an acceptable level of service.we 
aim to ensure  that we assist a policyholder and provide them with the correct information to 
help them make an informed decision.  Unfortunately, weve failed  to do this on this 
occasion.  
And Ive seen how Scottish Widows  gave  Mr J some  incorrect  information and could have 
provided more clarity about his plan value  when he contacted it. And the letters  it sent with 
different values contained within  could  have been  signposted more clearly.
Ref: DRN09532556But Scottish Widows has accepted this and has offered  £250  for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr J suffered during the whole  process. Mr J however doesnt believe 
Scottish Widows  has resolved his complaint fully and based on the time taken to sort things 
out he thinks Scottish Widows ought to pay him £10,000. And he wants it to sort out the 
outstanding complaint points he says are unresolved.
So, Ive considered the level of service Scottish Widows provided  to Mr J carefully,  as well 
as the impact its errors  and poor service had on his retirement planning. Ive taken into 
account that this would have been  a difficult time for Mr J as he was trying to establish the 
financial basis for the rest of his retirement and would have relied on Scottish Widows 
information. 
But overall, I think the sum offered is within  the range of what  Id expect to see for an error 
such as this. So, Im not going to ask Scottish Widows to do any more. I know Mr J said he 
thinks this offer is derisory and I understand his feelings given the trouble and upset he 
considers the firms lack of diligence has caused.  But I think  the offer is fair and reasonable 
for the level of distress  and inconvenience  caused  by its failures.
I note that there was some discrepancy around  the level of premium Mr J said he was 
paying compared to what Scottish Widows  said was his level of contributions. Its been 
confirmed that Mr J did pay £506.60 per month but that £11.20  of this cost was for a waiver  
of premium option which was designed  to cover premiums in the event of not being able to 
work through  illness or injury. And Ive seen  how this was included in the original policy.  But 
the waiver of premium  option was only payable until age 60 which is why  since 2013 that 
part of the overall premium stopped.  So, Im satisfied  that the overall premiums were correct  
and that the FPP was based on the correct figures.  
Mr J did say that hed yet to receive  an historical breakdown  of the figures that hed 
previously requested. Scottish Widows  has confirmed that this wasnt provided  and has now 
said that it will do so urgently. I hope this information will now be provided to Mr J by return.
my final decision
Scottish Widows  Limited has already made  an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Scottish Widows Limited  should pay £250.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0953255