K820x#14complaint
The Estate of the late Mr P has complained that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) mis-sold the 
late Mr P two Tech Packs in 2012 and 2014 respectively. These were taken out on different  
accounts as the first Tech pack was attached to an account that closed in 2012.  For the rest 
of the decision  when I say Mr P I am referring to the late Mr P.
background
One of our adjudicators has looked into this complaint already and she did not think that 
Barclays mis-sold  the two Tech packs. The Estate of Mr P did not agree asked for an 
ombudsman to look at their complaint and make a final decision.
I am only going to be looking at the sales of the Tech packs. I note that Mr P also held a 
number of packaged bank accounts prior to taking out this account but I can see that a 
complaint was raised about them in 2013  and the account  fees were  refunded  in line with 
our approach. So I am not going  to look into these sales.  I also note that there  were  issues  in 
submitting this complaint to Barclays but my understanding is that this matter has been  
resolved so I am not going to look into this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments and Ive decided  what  I think is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  this complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I do not think  that 
Barclays mis-sold  the two Tech packs. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
why I dont think the Tech pack in 2012 was mis-sold
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr P was given a clear  choice on upgrading. At this 
point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make my decision based on what I think  is 
most likely to have happened. When Mr P took out the account his account  was downgraded 
from an Additions Active account to the Tech pack. The Estate of Mr P says that he was not 
made aware  that he could have an overdraft on a free account  so this is why Mr P took out 
the Tech Pack. But from the statements I have been  provided  Mr P did have an overdraft on 
a free account prior to him holding packaged bank accounts or the Tech pack.  So I think that 
he wouldve been  aware that free accounts were available to him and that it was possible to 
have overdrafts on them. Given  this I think that Mr P was given a fair choice  to take out the 
Tech pack  and he chose  to take it out due to the benefits that it came with. 
The Tech pack was recommended to Mr P so Barclays  had to ensure that it was right for Mr 
P given  his circumstances  at the time. At the time the account  was taken out it came with 
mobile phone insurance,  gadget insurance and a £200 interest  free overdraft. Mr P had a 
mobile phone and frequently used his overdraft. I can see that the documentation from the 
sale showed that Mr P had his own mobile phone  insurance and that it was highlighted that 
the Tech pack came  with mobile phone insurance and that he would need to cancel  the 
duplicate cover if he wished to. I also can see that a direct debit to O2 was cancelled  around 
this time so it may have been  the case that he cancelled his existing  cover  for the cover that 
came with the account. I obviously  cant know  that for certain,  but I can see that Barclays 
Ref: DRN03282882had underlined to Mr P that he would  need  to cancel  any duplicate  cover,  which is all it could 
have done in the circumstances.  So overall  I do not think that Barclays  recommendation 
was inappropriate  given  Mr Ps circumstances at the time of the sale.  I note the Estate of Mr 
Ps comments that the interest free overdraft was available on free accounts but it is my 
understanding that while you could  have an overdraft on a fee free account with Barclays it 
would not be interest  free.
I accept Mr P may not have been  told everything  about all of the benefits but I cannot see 
anything specific that he was not told that I think wouldve changed his decision to take out 
the Tech pack. So I dont think that Barclays mis-sold this Tech  Pack
why I dont think the Tech pack sold in 2014  was mis-sold
The information Ive seen shows that Mr P signed  an application form confirming the switch  
to the Tech  pack. This Tech pack was taken out on a different account as the previous 
account with the other Tech pack had been  closed  for a year or so. Ive already explained 
why I think he wouldve been  aware  that Barclays did free accounts. And Ive also seen  that 
the application form Mr P signed does suggest that he was provided  with information on the 
various account options Barclays offered. So, taking  everything Ive seen together, overall 
Im satisfied that Mr P chose to take the Tech pack knowing that they didnt  have to.
In this instance the Tech pack was not recommended to Mr P so Barclays did not have to 
ensure that it was right for Mr P. It did though have to give him enough  information  for him to 
do this himself. Ive looked at the benefits included on the Tech  pack  and the documentation 
from the time of the sale and I think that Mr P wanted this pack  as he wanted  mobile  phone  
insurance. I note the Estate of Mr P says that Mr Ps mobile handset  was cheap but mobile  
phone insurance  seems to have  been  something  that Mr P wanted  based  on the note from 
the time.
Again I accept Mr P may not have been told everything about all of the benefits but I cannot 
see anything specific that he was not told that I think wouldve changed  his decision to take 
out the Tech pack. So I dont think that Barclays mis-sold this Tech Pack.
Overall and having considered everything  provided  by both parties I do not think  that either 
Tech Pack was mis-sold  and therefore I do not think Barclays  should refund any of the Tech 
pack fees.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask The Estate of the 
Late Mr P to accept or reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0328288