K820x#14complaint
Miss E complains  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance.
FICL, as the insurer, has accepted responsibility for this complaint. So to keep things simple, 
Ill refer to FICL as the seller throughout my decision.
background
In 1997, Miss E took out a loan and at the same  time was sold a single premium PPI policy.  
The cost of the policy was added to the loan and had interest charged on it. The policy would  
have protected  the repayments  on Miss Es loan for up to twelve  months if she wasnt able to 
work because of an accident,  sickness  or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Miss E disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Miss E says she wasnt  told the PPI was optional and that it was added without her 
knowledge or consent.
The loan and policy were  taken out in a meeting. FICL have provided a copy  of the Personal 
Loan Customer Details Form which Miss E signed  at the time. On this form there  is a 
section about  PPI and a box to tick if the cover  is required. A printed cross is shown in the 
box on Miss Es form. And although  this cross has been pre-printed, I think  its likely that it 
was added following  a conversation about PPI she had in the meeting and reflects  the 
choice she made then.
Ive also seen a copy of part of the credit agreement for the loan. On this document theres a 
pre-printed cross in the box next to the statement: Optional Payment Protection is required. 
Theres another box that could have been  ticked if PPI wasnt  required. Underneath this 
theres information about the cost of the PPI, including the premium and the amount of 
interest that would be charged.  And if Miss E didnt know  what this payment was for and 
hadnt agreed to it being added to her loan, I think she would have questioned this at the 
time.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think FICL made Miss E aware that the 
policy was optional and I think  she actively decided to take it, knowing she could choose not 
to do so. But this sale took place a very long time ago, so I can understand why she may not 
remember this now.
FICL says it didnt recommend the policy to Miss E. And from what I know about FICLs 
sales process at around this time,  I think this is likely  to have been the case.  This means  that 
Ref: DRN06981412FICL didnt  need  to ensure that the policy  was suitable for Miss E. But it still needed to give 
her enough  information about  the policy for her to decide if she wanted to take it.
I think its possible that the information  FICL gave her wasnt  as good as it should have been.  
But I can see that the cost of the policy and the interest to be charged on it were included  on 
the loan agreement. And from what I know of Miss Es circumstances at the time of the sale,  
I dont think better information  would have changed her mind  about taking it. I say this 
because:
Miss E appears to have been  eligible  for the policy and not affected by any of its main  
exclusions or limitations.
Miss E says she didnt  need the policy because  she had other means of making her loan 
repayments if she couldnt work. She says she had a generous sick pay entitlement  from 
her employer.  But Miss E chose  to take out the policy so it seems she valued this type of 
cover. And it would have paid out in addition to any other  means she might  have  had. So 
I still think the policy would have proved useful to her if things had gone wrong.
Miss E wouldnt have got back a proportionate  refund of the PPI premium  if shed  
cancelled the policy early. But I havent seen  anything to suggest  she thought shed 
repay the loan early.  So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt  right for her, or that 
better information about this would have stopped her buying  it.
So I dont  think that Miss E has lost out by anything that FICL may have done wrong when it 
sold this PPI policy to Miss E.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0698141