K821x#15Complaint
Mrs C has complained that Close Brothers  Limited  was irresponsible when it agreed a 
conditional sale agreement for her on 12 January 2016. 
Background
Mrs C was granted a conditional sale agreement for a car with Close  Brothers, via an 
intermediary. Mrs C would  own the car once the finance had been repaid and in the 
meantime she was, in essence, paying  for the use of it. 
The cash  price of the car was £7,7861 and Mrs C paid a deposit  of £700. Close Brothers 
agreed a loan of £7,086 over 60 months which, plus £2,732 interest  and fees, came to 
£9,818. This was to be repaid over 60 instalments of £164.  
The credit agreement was for a total of £10,518  the deposit of £700 plus £9,818.
It seems  Mrs C missed  some payments over the course of the agreement though 
Close Brothers have confirmed that as of July 2020 her repayments  were up to date and the 
car was in her possession. 
Mrs C says that Close Brothers shouldnt have agreed to lend to her. She says she was 
struggling to meet repayments on her existing debts and was reliant on her overdraft and 
short term loans to meet her living costs each month. 
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs Cs complaint  and found that it should be upheld. She 
recommended that Close Brothers refund the fees and charges Mrs C paid for her credit. 
Close Brothers didnt  accept that it had been irresponsible in lending to Mrs C and disagreed 
with the adjudicators recommendation.  The complaint  came  to me as an ombudsman  to 
review and resolve. 
I issued my provisional decision on 18 August 2020  explaining why I thought  Mrs Cs 
complaint should  be upheld  and how best to resolve  it. An extract  from that is attached to 
and forms part of this final decision, so I wont repeat what it said here. Mrs C accepted my 
provisional decision and Close  Brothers  said it didnt have anything further to add.  
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any new 
comment or information for consideration it follows that my provisional findings  remain 
unchanged. I consider Close Brothers was irresponsible when it agreed to lend to Mrs C and 
Im upholding her complaint.
What Close  Brothers should do to put things right
As I think  the credit was irresponsibly agreed, Mrs C shouldnt  repay  more  than the capital 
amount she borrowed.  In other words,  she isnt liable for any interest,  charges  or fees 
associated with the agreement. 
1 All figures rounded to the nearest pound for simplicity. 
Ref: DRN03739582Wed expect Mrs C to repay the capital she borrowed as shes had the use of these  funds or, 
in this case, the use of a car in exchange for the funds.  This has the effect of reducing the 
amount Mrs C owes under the agreement to the capital borrowed,  in other words £7,786 
being the cash price  of the car, should  the agreement  have  run its course.  
However, the agreement  is ongoing  and from the information Close  Brothers provided, it 
seems Mrs Cs account is up to date. This means she has paid what she ought to up to this 
point in the agreement,  over about four and a half years. By my calculation  Mrs C has 
already repaid the cash price of the car.
So, in this case, I think its fair that the car remains with Mrs C and ownership of the car 
transfers to her. In order to put things right for her, Close Brothers ought to:
a)End the agreement at no further  cost; and
b)Treat all payments, including the deposit and upfront fees, Mrs C made as payments 
towards the capital  borrowed; and
c)Refund any payments  Mrs C has made above the capital amount along with 8% per 
annum simple interest*  from the date of each  overpayment  to the date of settlement 
to reflect  the fact that she should  not have been  deprived of these funds; and
d)Provide Mrs C with an explanation of how it has calculated the refund; and
e)Remove all adverse information about  this loan from Mrs Cs credit  file, once settled. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers to take off tax from this interest. 
Close Brothers must give Mrs C a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
As explained above and in my provisional  decision, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint about  
Close Brothers Limited and require  it to put things  right for her as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 October  2020.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03739583EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mrs C has complained that Close Brothers Limited  was irresponsible  when it agreed a conditional  
sale agreement for her on 12 January 2016.  
Background
Mrs C was granted a conditional sale agreement for a car with Close  Brothers, via an intermediary.  
Mrs C would own the car once the finance had been  repaid and in the meantime she was, in essence, 
paying for the use of it. 
The cash price of the car was £7,7862 and Mrs C paid a deposit of £700.  Close Brothers agreed a 
loan of £7,086 over 60 months which, plus £2,732 interest and fees, came to £9,818.  This was to be 
repaid over 60 instalments of £164. 
The credit  agreement  was for a total of £10,518  the deposit of £700  plus £9,818.
It seems Mrs C missed some payments over the course of the agreement though 
Close Brothers have confirmed that as of July 2020 her repayments were  up to date and the car was 
in her possession. 
Mrs C says that Close Brothers shouldnt have  agreed to lend to her. She says she was struggling  to 
meet repayments on her existing debts and was reliant on her overdraft  and short  term loans to meet 
her living costs each month. 
Our adjudicator looked  into Mrs Cs complaint and found that it should be upheld. She recommended 
that Close  Brothers refund  the fees and charges  Mrs C paid for her credit.  Close Brothers didnt 
accept that it had been  irresponsible  in lending  to Mrs C and disagreed with the adjudicators 
recommendation. The complaint has now come to me as an ombudsman  to review and resolve. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  I have  also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory  rules  
and good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, I plan to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for 
Close Brothers and I hope my explanation  below  makes it clear why I have come to this conclusion.
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when Close Brothers lent to Mrs C. Its rules 
and guidance obliged Close Brothers to lend responsibly.  As set out in its Consumer Credit  
Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Close  Brothers needed to take reasonable and proportionate 
steps to assess whether or not a borrower could  afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable 
manner over the lifetime of the agreement. 
CONC 5.3.1(G) stated that
1.In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required , a firm should take 
into account more  than assessing  the customer's  ability to repay  the credit.
2.The creditworthiness  assessment and the assessment required  should  include the firm 
taking reasonable  steps to assess  the customer's ability to meet repayments under a 
2 All figures rounded to the nearest pound for simplicity. 
Ref: DRN03739584regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer incurring financial 
difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner  meant being able to meet  repayments out of normal income 
while meeting other reasonable  commitments;  without  having to borrow further to meet  these 
repayments; without having to realise security  or assets (CONC  5.3.1G-6) or without incurring  or 
increasing problem indebtedness (ILG3 4.3).
Neither the law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such  an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that the level 
of detail  would depend  on the type of product,  the amount  of credit being considered,  the associated 
cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial situation,  amongst other factors. 
As set out in CONC, the risk to the borrower directly  relates  to the particulars  of the lending and the 
circumstances of the borrower.  In other words  the assessment  needs to be borrower-focussed. It is 
not an assessment of the risk to the lender of recouping its money, but of the risk to the borrower of 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences as a result of the 
decision to lend. 
It is important to note here that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify  exactly  how the assessment is to 
be carried out but the extent and scope and the types  and sources of information  to use needed  to 
be enough to be able to reasonably  assess the sustainability of the arrangement for the borrower.  
In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the borrower  
of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable  way. So, for example, Id expect  a lender to seek 
more assurance,  potentially by carrying  out more  detailed  checks
-the lower a persons income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
-the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
-the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely to 
be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind,  in coming  to a decision  on Mrs Cs case, I have considered  the following  
questions:
-did Close Brothers complete reasonable and proportionate checks when  assessing 
Mrs Cs finance  application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the agreement  
in a sustainable way?
-if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
-did Close Brothers make a fair lending decision?
-did Close Brothers act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Close Brothers says that when Mrs C asked for the finance she was automatically  accepted for credit 
based on her background, history and credit.  It says based on its credit check the finance was 
affordable for her, and it didnt have any grounds not to accept her application. 
Close Brothers provided the information it gathered at the time by way of an underwriting report, 
which seems  to consist of personal information from Mrs C and information  from her credit file. It 
doesnt contain any income or expenditure information though the report  includes space for this. 
I cant  say that Close Brothers took reasonable steps here to assess the affordability of its loan for 
Mrs C. In order to do so, Close Brothers needed to check that Mrs C could  meet repayments out of 
3 The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced  a document entitled Irresponsible Lending Guidance 
which the FCA referenced in its consumer  handbook. CONC  5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.
Ref: DRN03739585her normal income, but it didnt know what she earned or what her usual living costs were  and I cant 
see that it sought that information. 
Furthermore, the information it did have showed Mrs C had almost £15,000 of revolving credit (93% of 
her credit limit) and was repaying  a large unsecured loan of over £20,000 in addition to her mortgage.  
The report showed that she had missed several  payments on her mortgage  and her loan in the last 
few years. It also showed  that she had regularly borrowed from short  term lenders, most  recently in 
the previous month.  I think  this amount of existing debt, being close to her credit limits  and the use of 
expensive short term credit ought to have raised serious  concerns  with the lender about Mrs Cs 
ability to meet any further credit repayments sustainably. 
Mrs C has provided her bank statements and credit  file. These confirm  her existing  debt levels and 
that her reliance on short term lending to meet  her living  costs  and existing  credit commitments was 
continuing into 2016 as she had at least one outstanding short term loan. I can also see from these  
that she was living beyond her means with her living costs and debt repayments exceeding her 
income, even  taking into account her partners  income and shared  expenses. 
I think  Close  Brothers  would likely have seen that Mrs C couldnt afford to repay any additional credit 
in a sustainable way, had it looked into her finances in more depth. Indeed, I think  it was unfair to 
agree to lend to her based on the limited  information it did have about her circumstances. It should 
have been obvious that Mrs Cs financial situation was such that agreeing  further credit for her was 
likely to add to her financial  difficulties - she wasnt managing to meet her existing commitments  
without borrowing further and wasnt making  inroads into her debts. Agreeing  more credit for her at 
this point increased and prolonged her overall  indebtedness. 
Altogether, I think Close Brothers was irresponsible to lend on this occasion  and I am upholding 
Mrs Cs complaint.
What Close Brothers  should do to put things right
As I think the credit was irresponsibly agreed, Mrs C shouldnt repay  more than the capital amount 
she borrowed.  In other words, she isnt liable  for any interest, charges or fees associated  with the 
agreement. 
Wed expect  Mrs C to repay the capital  she borrowed  as shes had the use of these  funds  or, in this 
case, the use of a car in exchange for the funds. This has the effect of reducing the amount Mrs C 
owes under  the agreement to the capital borrowed,  in other words £7,786  being the cash  price  of the 
car, should the agreement have run its course. 
However, the agreement is ongoing and from the information  Close Brothers provided, it seems 
Mrs Cs account is up to date.  This means she has paid what  she ought to up to this point in the 
agreement, over about four and a half years. By my calculation Mrs C has already repaid the cash  
price of the car.
So, in this case, I think  its fair that the car remains  with Mrs C and ownership of the car transfers to 
her. In order to put things  right for her, Close  Brothers ought to :
a)End the agreement at no further cost; and
b)Treat all payments, including the deposit and upfront fees, Mrs C made  as payments towards  
the capital borrowed;  and
c)Refund any payments  Mrs C has made above the capital amount along with 8% per annum  
simple interest* from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement to reflect the fact 
that she should not have  been  deprived of these funds; and
d)Provide Mrs C with an explanation of how it has calculated the refund; and
Ref: DRN03739586e)Remove all adverse information about this loan from Mrs Cs credit file, once settled. 
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires Close Brothers  to take off tax from this interest. 
Close Brothers must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
-END-
Ref: DRN0373958