K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Northern Bank  Limited mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with a loan.
background
In 1996 Mr and Mrs H took out a loan during a branch meeting. Mr and Mrs H say the 
purpose of the loan was home  improvements. Because things happened so long ago, 
Northern Bank no longer  has any paperwork  from the time or full details of how much Mr and 
Mrs H borrowed.
But it says the PPI was a monthly regular premium,  which cost around £38 a month 
protecting a monthly loan payment of around £200.  And as the first applicant, Mr H was the 
person covered by the policy.
Northern Banks records  show the loan account  closed in 1999.
I issued my provisional decision of July 2019 in which I said I was likely to reach a different 
conclusion to the adjudicator and not uphold  the complaint. In summary  and subject to any 
comments I received in response, I said my final decision would likely be along the following 
lines:
this was an advised sale, so Northern Bank had to ensure PPI was suitable for Mr 
and Mrs H. It also had to give them enough clear and timely  information about the 
policy so they could decide if they wanted to go ahead.
the example  paperwork provided by Northern Bank more likely  than not represented 
what Mr and Mrs H saw when they applied for and took out their loan and PPI.
the paperwork suggests they were  given a choice about  PPI and they agreed to take 
it out by completing  the necessary sections on the loan application and loan 
agreement form.
the evidence  suggests that more likely Mr and Mrs H were told the cost of the PPI 
before they agreed to go ahead  it seems unlikely they wouldve agreed to 
something without knowing the cost.
It wasnt wrong for Northern Bank to have  recommended PPI  it was suitable based 
on Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances  and needs  at the time.
While  there might  have been  gaps  in the information Northern Bank provided about  
the policy, there was nothing to indicate  Mr and Mrs H wouldve been put off taking it 
out had Northern Bank done  anything more.
In response to my provisional decision Northern Bank said it had nothing further to add.
Neither Mr and Mrs H nor their representative  replied to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful that Mr and Mrs H havent  responded to my provisional decision. But Im satisfied 
that their representative received it and was made  aware of the deadline for a response. 
Ref: DRN01237722So I think its reasonable to assume that if Mr and Mrs H  and/or their representative  
wanted to respond  they wouldve done so by now. I therefore think  its safe to go ahead and 
issue my final decision.
Because neither party has given me anything new to consider, I see no reason to change  my 
mind or depart from my reasoning as set out in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided to not uphold this 
complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0123772