K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the way he was treated by Bank of Scotland  Plc (Bank  of Scotland) 
whilst attempting to pay in a cheque.  
background
Mr S went  into his local branch to pay in a cheque. After entering  the branch Mr S was 
approached by a member  of staff who advised  him he could use a paying in machine to pay 
the cheque into his bank account. But Mr S preferred to pay his cheque in via a member  of 
staff over the counter. Following a discussion  with the staff member  Mr S left the branch.  
Mr S was unhappy with the way the staff member had spoken to him so he made a 
complaint to the Bank of Scotland.  Bank  of Scotland reviewed the complaint but did not 
uphold it. Bank of Scotland said it wasnt willing to offer a gesture of goodwill. And that Mr S 
had a history of making complaints.  Mr S wasnt happy with this response. He feels  the staff 
member was rude to him and he hasnt complained a lot to the Bank  of Scotland  when 
considering the length of time he has been  a customer. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint but felt Bank of Scotland had not done  anything 
wrong. Mr S didnt agree and has asked an ombudsman to make a final decision on his 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. And for roughly the same reasons. I know Mr S feels  strongly 
about this complaint and this will come  as a disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider  surrounding 
circumstances. 
Im in no doubt there was a disagreement following the member of staff suggesting to Mr S 
could use the paying in machine. But I dont think it was unreasonable for the member of 
staff to make the suggestion. Im satisfied  the member of staff was trying  to offer Mr S a 
faster way of paying in his cheque. Nor do I think it unreasonable  Mr S preferred  to pay in his 
cheque via a teller over the counter. 
Mr S has mentioned the branch  doors  were shut behind him after he left. He feels he was 
being rushed out of the branch. Although this would have been unpleasant for Mr S Im not 
satisfied this would have caused  any significant distress to him.
I note Bank  of Scotland has cited Mr Ss complaint  history when deciding not to make an 
award. Bank  of Scotland should review every  complaint on its own merits. But I dont think 
the way it has handled  the complaint has caused Mr S any detriment or led to the wrong 
outcome when considering the overall circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN00483212On balance, I have  no reason  to doubt Mr Ss version of events. It is clear from his evidence  
and conversations with our investigator  that he is unhappy. But even though he is unhappy 
with how he was spoken to, I dont think an apology  or a gesture of goodwill from the Bank of 
Scotland is appropriate in this situation. The member of staff (who alleges Mr S was also 
rude to her) was trying  to assist Mr S in using a faster method for him to pay funds into his 
account. Overall I do not find these  actions (or any of the above) to be unreasonable, unfair 
or likely to have caused Mr S any significant  distress. 
I realise this will be a disappointment for Mr S, but based on what  Ive seen, I dont think the 
complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0048321