K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains through a claims management company (CMC) that the appointed
representative of Legal and General Partnership  Services Limited mis-sold him a mortgage
when it advised  consolidating a debt. Mr R wants to be compensated for his resulting loss
with interest.
background
In 2005, Mr R had a mortgage with a lender and an unsecured loan to the same lender
which was used to purchase a car. The mortgage  was originally split £38,500 on a
repayment basis and £54,500 interest-only  when it was arranged a couple of years  earlier.
This mortgage was then on a fixed interest rate product  which was coming to an end at
3.89% pa. The unsecured loan of about  £4,000 had 48 months  remaining and the interest
rate was 6.9%  pa. Mr R paid £420 per month for the mortgage and £107  per month for the
loan. Mr R had a disposable income  after all his outgoings of £368  per month.
L&G recommended  that the unsecured loan be consolidated into a remortgage with another
lender. This new mortgage was split £51,429  on a repayment basis  and £46,000 interest 
only. The interest  rate on the new three  year fixed rate product was 4.55% pa and the
payments were £501.88 per month.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she felt that it met
Mr Rs goal of having one manageable monthly payment and he was aware  that debt
consolidation could  result  in more interest  being paid. The CMC didnt agree and asked for a
review.
my provisional decision
On 21 August 2019 I issued my provisional decision as follows:
L&G made its recommendation on the basis of a client review  dated 13 August 2005.  It
noted that Mr R was a 38 year single man, employed, earning £1,590 net per month.  His
outstanding mortgage was £89,000.  He had one other loan to buy a car which  hed been
paying for a year and had no other outstanding  loans, overdrafts or credit  cards.  After taking
account of the mortgage and loan and other outgoings he had £368 disposable income
available each month. The L& G adviser advised a remortgage for debt consolidation.
The sole reason it seemed  for this advice  at the time it was given is that Mr R wished  to
proceed with the arrangement because having  one manageable payment is more important
to you (Mr R) and by having  one arrangement forces the discipline  to pay .In its letter  to Mr
R of 10 September  2018, L&G also mentioned that by consolidating this debt Mr Rs
disposable income increased and if this hadnt  happened I believe your payments would
have been higher than your £600  budget. But I couldnt see any evidence that if Mr R 
stayed with the unsecured loan and continued with the existing mortgage that his payments 
would be over £600.
This wasnt the usual  case of a debt consolidation where a customer under financial 
pressure looks to reduce  the monthly  payments via a remortgage. Sometimes  a single 
payment would assist  a customers financial  management in that type of situation  where  he 
or she is paying off many  debts with different dates of payment. But that wasnt  the situation 
Ref: DRN01856012here. There was no evidence that Mr R was under  any financial pressure. He was able to 
meet his financial commitments  as they fell due. There was no evidence that his payments 
were unmanageable so that they required the discipline of one monthly payment.
As a result of the advice,  the unsecured part of Mr Rs debt was now secured when  I felt this
wasnt necessary. Mr Rs unsecured debt had four years to run after which  he would be free
of that debt. After  consolidation  it had 20 years to run on an interest  only basis,  with none of
the capital being repaid until the end of the term. There  wasnt a substantial saving in the
interest rate between  the unsecured loan and the new mortgage and after the three year
advised mortgage product ended, there  would be very little saving at all. But, after
consolidation Mr R would be paying  interest on his car loan for twenty years and would still
have to find the capital to pay it off at that point. I didnt believe  that this was appropriate
advice.
Before the remortgage  Mr R had debt commitments  of a mortgage  of £89,968.91  and a loan
of £4224.38, in total £ 94,193.21. After the consolidation Mr R owed £97,000  secured  on his
property, an extra £2,806.79. Part of this was a single payment for an accident sickness and
redundancy policy (ASU) of £1,438.50. I note that Mr R made no complaint about this and
it wasnt referred to in L&Gs final response  to Mr Rs complaint. So, I did not consider it as 
part of this complaint.  The remainder were  fees of £1,368.29 which were related to the
remortgage. I considered the remortgage and these fees to have been unnecessary.
So, I said that subject  to any further  submissions  I received from the CMC or L&G my 
intention was to uphold this complaint. In terms of redress I said that I believed  that the 
following was fair. L&G should:
refund  all charges, fees and commissions associated with the remortgage in 2005  
other than those related to the ASU policy;
refund  the mortgage interest accrued on the above charges, fees and commission to 
the date of settlement calculated at the interest  rates applicable to the mortgage;
 if Mr R wished the entire  amount that results from the above calculation to be paid 
off the outstanding capital  of his mortgage  loan, L&G should  pay any early repayment  
charge incurred;
calculate redress for the inappropriate debt consolidation as follows:
            1) calculate the amount Mr R has paid to service the consolidated debt each month
             as part of his mortgage  payments;
             2) calculate the amount of the consolidated  debt still outstanding on his mortgage
             balance;
             3) calculate the amount it would have cost to pay off the debt had it not been
             consolidated, assuming that the payment amounts and interest rates  in the client
             review stayed the same:
             Add  together the first two figures, deduct  the third and pay the result as a lump sum
             to Mr R; and
Ref: DRN01856013             pay Mr R £150 compensation
Further Submissions
I received no further submissions or evidence from either  L&G or Mr R.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the evidence and submissions  made by Mr R and L&G  to this complaint.  In 
my view my provisional decision represents  a fair outcome to this complaint and on that 
basis I uphold the complaint and shall order L&G to pay the redress  as set out in my 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I order Legal & General Partnership  Services 
Limited to:
refund  all charges, fees and commissions associated with the remortgage in 2005  
other than those related to the ASU policy;
refund  the mortgage interest accrued on the above charges, fees and commission to 
the date of settlement calculated at the interest  rates applicable to the mortgage;
if Mr R wishes the entire amount that results from the above calculation to be paid off 
the outstanding  capital  of his mortgage loan,  L&G should  pay any early  repayment 
charge incurred;
calculate redress for the inappropriate debt consolidation as follows:
            1) calculate the amount Mr R has paid to service the consolidated debt each month
             as part of his mortgage  payments;
             2) calculate the amount of the consolidated  debt still outstanding on his mortgage
             balance;
             3) calculate the amount it would have cost to pay off the debt had it not been
             consolidated, assuming that the payment amounts and interest rates  in the client
             review stayed the same:
             Add  together the first two figures, deduct  the third and pay the result as a lump sum
             to Mr R; and
             pay Mr R £150 compensation.
Ref: DRN01856014Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0185601