K821x#15complaint
Miss N says Advantage  Insurance  Company and its salvage agent provided her with poor 
service after she made  a claim on her motor  insurance policy  and her car was written-off. 
background
At the end of November 2018  Miss Ns car collided with the rear of another  vehicle. A pre-
accident market  value of £970 for the car was agreed in December 2018. Miss N decided  to 
keep the salvage, so Advantage deducted £187  for that, plus her policy excess.  
When the car was returned to Miss N in January 2019, she found  extra  damage  to it. The 
salvage agent accepted  blame for that. It agreed to pay for all the repair  costs  - subject  to 
evidence - and it paid for some repairs straight  away. The car was then inspected  by a 
dealership garage. It found  further faults. Miss N informed the salvage agent,  but it didnt 
respond. A few weeks later Miss N decided to sell the car. She got £250 for the salvage. 
Miss N set out many reasons for complaining to us about Advantage. One of the major ones 
was it having provided very poor,  slow service  by not communicating with her properly after 
the accident. She said Advantage didnt help her when she had problems  with premium 
payments. And she said it had passed her car to a company that wasnt  trustworthy.  Miss N 
said she was distraught  by the loss of her car, which she said was a classic motor. 
Advantage said the salvage agent had replaced the tyre it damaged  and wasnt  to blame for 
her car not being drivable. So it wouldnt consider  loss of use payments. It said it had to 
reschedule Miss Ns payments as there was an outstanding amount due - and that it had told 
her about  it. But it agreed that its contact with Miss N could have been better. It offered her 
£70 compensation.  Miss N thought  Advantage or the salvage agent  should pay her for loss 
of earnings and car hire, as well as increasing the general compensation.   
One of our investigators  reviewed Miss Ns complaint.  He noted that the engineer  who 
assessed Miss Ns car after the accident said it wasnt roadworthy. So Miss N wouldnt  have  
been able to drive  it even  if it hadnt been  damaged  further by the salvage agent. But he 
thought the extra damage would have caused her further upset regardless. He noted that 
Advantage said its compensation (£70 - plus an earlier sum of £45 for poor advice - so £115 
in total)  was for its lack of updates / poor communication. He said Miss N was also upset  by 
her car being returned to her late, and having  to take time off work to collect  her personal 
items, as they werent returned.  He said she had the extra stress of having  to negotiate with 
and chase the salvage agent. He thought a further £200 compensation was justified.
Miss N accepted the investigators view, but Advantage said it thought the award was too 
high. The investigator set out why he thought  the increase was fair, but Advantage asked for 
a review of the complaint by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN04888272my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The accident  damage set out by the inspecting engineer was extensive. He said the bonnet,  
front panel,  front bumper  assembly, radiators, headlights, grille, cooling fan and left wing all 
needed replacing. So I think its fair to say that it wasnt the extra damage caused by the 
salvage agent that meant the car wasnt roadworthy.  The car wasnt being repaired by 
Advantage, as Miss N had accepted a total loss payment for it. She would have been without 
transport anyway until she had the car repaired herself. So I dont think Miss N is entitled to 
a refund of any car hire charges she incurred or a loss of use payment.
I think its understandable that Miss N was shocked  by her car not having been  looked after 
properly by the salvage agent. The accident  on its premises should  never  have happened. 
And the extra damage to the car was always going  to delay getting it back  on the road, as 
more repair  work and extra parts would then have been needed. 
I think the salvage agent acted reasonably  in taking responsibility for the new damage. It 
isnt clear why it suddenly stopped contact with Miss N after she passed  it the report from the 
dealership garage. It seems Advantage couldnt  explain  that. Miss N was very frustrated by 
it, given the effort shed made  to get independent  evidence. I think  it was poor service for the 
salvage agent not to reply to her last email. And in the end, it didnt do what  it had promised 
to do, which  was to repair  the damage once  Miss N provided evidence of it. Its failure  to 
respond caused a further delay as well as inconvenience and upset  on Miss Ns part. 
Miss N hasnt shown she lost any income  as a result of anything  Advantage or the salvage  
agent did. But it would have been  frustrating  for her to have to take time off work. She told 
Advantage she took a day off to take delivery  of the car from the salvage  agent  but it was 
returned late. She also took time off to collect items left in the car that werent returned.  
I dont think some of Miss Ns concerns about Advantage (such  as having to deal with more 
than one of its advisers)  are such that they merit compensation. But I think its offer of £115 
to compensate for poor contact, a lack of updates and poor advice was on the low side.  
Taking into account all the major aspects of Miss Ns complaint, I dont think its 
unreasonable to require  Advantage  to pay her a further £200 for distress  and inconvenience. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Miss N a further  £200 (£315 in total) for distress and 
inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0488827