K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 to 
protect a credit  card taken out in 2002. Mrs C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mrs C says that she did not decide to take out the policy, but was pressured in to taking it as 
it was implied that by not taking PPI, there  would be no finance. But I think  Barclays  made  it 
clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this as it was so long ago.
Mrs C was sold her PPI over the phone, after she completed an application  for a credit card 
through the post. The credit card was opened  in 2002, over a year before the policy  was 
sold. Theres no call recording available, but this isnt unusual given the date of sale,  and 
businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely. But given that Mrs C had her credit  
card for over a year before the policy began, I think she wouldve known  that she didnt have  
to have PPI to get the card, and chose to take it out
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think she chose to take it out - it looks  like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mrs C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said, including  what  shes  said about having  
financial support  from her family should she need  it. But while family are often keen to 
Ref: DRN08846502provide support, circumstances can change, and ultimately the repayments were Mrs Cs 
responsibility. So this point doesnt  change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs C any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0884650