K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs M payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2004.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place about  15 years ago and few of the original documents  from 
the time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is.
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Ms comments; but Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs M have  said they were told wrongly  that they had to have PPI. However  it 
wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless  there was some type of 
supporting evidence. I realise  this is difficult for Mr and Mrs M to prove but, without  
stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mr and Mrs Ms consent. 
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, but it doesnt look as if 
it was unsuitable,  based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time.  Its likely 
Mr and Mrs M were  eligible for the policy. And finding yourself  unable  to pay a mortgage 
can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would  have  paid benefits at the same time as 
Mr and Mrs M received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have 
paid unemployment  benefits in addition  to any redundancy  pay. And it seems they didnt 
have other means, such as savings, to fall back on at the time. So this all would have put 
Mr and Mrs M in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income  due to long term 
sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been  told anything to suggest they couldnt 
afford the PPI when  they took it out. So I think the PPI would have been potentially 
useful, and so a recommendation was suitable. 
 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Mr and Mrs M took the PPI.
Ref: DRN07185312Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have been affected by any of these. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0718531