K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Coutts & Company told her (in 2009)  that it would disclose to her 
advisors Ernst & Young (EY)  any relevant  tax information about the proposed Barclays 
regular income bond  on an annual basis but it failed to do so. She incurred an expected  tax 
charge last year and, as a result, had to pay fees to EY to deal with.
background
Mrs B said she accepted the tax liability but wanted Coutts to pay the £5,000 fee shed paid 
to EY to sort all this out.
Coutts rejected  the complaint, saying it had found  no evidence  to indicate it had made such  
a promise and the suitability letter had stated  that Mrs B would need to speak to her tax 
advisor about any taxation  issues.  Further,  it said that it did not manage  the bond  and would 
not have had access to the information  in question, as only the bond holder, Barclays, held 
this. It said the suitability letter explained that interest was paid gross and that it was Mrs Bs 
responsibility to declare  this and pay any tax owed.  It therefore felt she ought  to have been 
fully aware of the potential tax issue at the outset.
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld, noting:
The suitability letter stated that income  would  be paid gross and it was for Mrs B to 
report this and pay any tax required
Coutts would not have  been  aware of the income Barclays  was paying from the bond 
so could not have reported this to EY
The letters from EY to Coutts  asking for information about Mrs Bs assets referred  to 
Coutts own bank accounts in her name
Mr B, on behalf of Mrs B, did not agree, and said:
What Coutts and the adjudicator failed  to take into account is "the world class 
account management" that Coutts  offer and the customer pays a substantial sum for 
this
The account manager who managed their affairs knew  them  and sold them  the bond 
and worked with EY on a personal  basis yet still he didn't tell EY that they needed to 
pay tax on the bond  every year
How on earth can this service let it get away with this?
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
The suitability letter clearly states that income  is paid gross, allowing Mrs B to utilize any tax-
free allowances, but that tax will be liable on any excess   and it spells  out that Mrs B will be 
responsible for reporting this to HMRC.  There is no mention that Coutts would liaise with EY 
over this. Instead, the advisor says Mrs B should speak to a tax advisor regarding any 
concerns about  this issue.
Ref: DRN08094812I have read the correspondence from, and involving EY, and I do not believe this 
demonstrates that Coutts promised to inform  it about the bond, its performance or the 
income pay-outs.  And, as the adjudicator explained, Coutts would not have had access  to 
this information.
I have considered the other points raised  by Mr and Mrs B but I do not believe they affect the 
overall merits of this complaint. Mrs B clearly  wanted and expected  Coutts to liaise  with EY  
perhaps understandably given her long-standing relationship with it and the fees she paid  
but there is no persuasive evidence that it promised  to do this or that it was obliged to.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0809481