K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs M are unhappy with how Lloyds  Bank  PLC (trading as Scottish Widows) has 
treated them  whilst theyve been struggling to pay their mortgage.
background
Mr M and Mrs M took out this mortgage with Scottish Widows in July 2002. They borrowed 
£540,000 over a 25-year  term on a repayment basis. As only £500,000 could be put on the 
preferential rate product theyd selected, the mortgage was split into two sub-accounts.  The 
sub-accounts have the same number, other than the smaller ends in *610 and the larger  in 
*611. So original sub-account *611 was for £500,000 and that was on the preferential  rate 
product, and £40,000 was on sub-account *610 and that was on the standard variable rate.
There were arrears in the first year but these were settled. 
In 2007 Mr M and Mrs M took a new preferential rate product that covered both 
sub-accounts. They  remain  on that product to date,  and its a tracker  rate currently  being 
charged at 1.5% (Scottish Widows base rate of 0.75% plus a 0.75% margin). The current 
base rate margin of 0.75% will be in place for the remainder of the mortgage term.
In February 2011  Mr M and Mrs M went into arrears again. The situation  deteriorated  and 
legal action was taken in October 2011  and September 2014. On both occasions Mr M 
and Mrs M did enough  to stop the legal action before the possession hearing  was due, but 
by that time legal costs had been  incurred by Scottish Widows which  then passed the costs  
onto Mr M and Mrs M.
I understand Mr M and Mrs M separated  in September 2012, with Mrs M remaining in the 
property and Mr M moving into another property they already owned. Mrs M moved out the 
property in March  2014 and it was rented out for a year, until the tenants  left due to 
weather- related damage.
In January 2016 Scottish Widows agreed to accept payments equivalent to just the interest 
for a year to allow Mr M time to repay  over £30,000  he owed to a solicitor. He said the 
solicitor had obtained a charging  order on the property and was threatening to force  a sale if 
the debt wasnt  repaid.
Mr M and Mrs M have  broken  numerous payment promises over the years for various 
reasons, and in July 2019 (which is the most recent  update we had) the arrears  remained at 
over £60,000.
Mr M and Mrs M complained to Scottish  Widows and then brought their complaint to us as 
they werent satisfied  with Scottish  Widows response. 
I wont detail all the heads of complaint here as they are numerous, but they were set out by 
our adjudicator in his assessment letter of 15 May 2019 and neither side has disputed those 
as the complaint points. Mrs M asked to add some further complaint points about her 
building insurance  and an alleged breach in data protection  requirements,  but our 
adjudicator explained we cant  consider those as part of this complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint. Mr M and Mrs M didnt agree and 
so its been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN09454622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ours is an informal  dispute resolution  
service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. If I dont  
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome.
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party. Were required to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable having assessed all of the available  evidence  from the parties. Its not a matter of 
us not investigating the complaint  and being persuaded by a big business which is lying to 
us as Mrs M has claimed. Instead  we look at things independently  without taking sides.  By 
the very nature of what we deal with that normally  means  one party loses - whether that is 
the consumer  or the business - but that doesnt  mean weve not considered everything or 
that weve paid more attention to one sides arguments over the others.
After our adjudicator expressed his view, Mrs M told us shed  been  talking to Scottish 
Widows and it had acknowledged payments  hadnt  been allocated correctly  and that it was 
looking into this again. But when we asked Scottish  Widows about this it said Mrs M had 
called them the day before to query  how faster payments were apportioned,  and that her 
query hadnt yet been responded to.
As our adjudicator explained, as part of this complaint we can only deal with the issues that 
were originally dealt with by the business and referred to us, so we cant consider  here any 
new issues Mr M and Mrs M have  raised,  such as the building  insurance,  data protection  
issues and/or the query about  faster payments.
Mrs M told us she didnt  believe the interest-only period was in their best interests,  and that 
no advice was given  about the implications of it. She said Scottish Widows had implied that it 
was all Mr Ms idea,  which  it wasnt.
Fortuitously Scottish Widows retained copies of the emails relating to the amendment  and 
has provided them to this service. On 7 December 2015 Mr M emailed Scottish  Widows,  and 
in that he said:
 I am in the process of paying one of the charges off, [the solicitor].
To do this I have to pay a monthly amount and to enable  me to do this would it be 
possible to change my mortgage from a repayment  to an interest only mortgage or pay 
interest only for the next 3-6 months which will put me in a better financial position to 
enable me to this.
Scottish Widows  replied  telling Mr M that a formal change to interest only would have to be 
arranged via a mortgage broker, but it could be referred to senior management to see if 
Scottish Widows  could  accept a payment equivalent to interest only for a period of time.  
After Mr M chased things up, Scottish  Widows sent a further  email  which  said:
Before we agree to anything, we have to make  sure we are not putting you in a worse  
position than you have been otherwise - let me explain.
Ref: DRN09454623A formal switch to interest only can only be done  via an IFA or mortgage  broker  and 
would be subject to demonstration that you have a suitable repayment vehicle in place to 
redeem the mortgage in full at the end of the term.
We can look at a reduced payment arrangement to accept an amount equivalent to 
interest only - the difference between your standard monthly payment and the amount 
paid will be added  to the current shortfall position.  The equivalent payment is £360 per 
month so an amount of £1,978.35 per month will be added to the current shortfall balance  
which is £37,631.40.
Although we are currently accepting an overpayment of £100 per month, your account 
was due to be reviewed in the new year to start working towards normalising a payment 
and increasing  to an amount to ensure that the payment shortfall is repaid within  the 
remaining term of the mortgage (currently 140 months) - the longer we leave this and the 
more that is added on to the payment shortfall will only increase the eventual monthly 
overpayment.
Will you be put in an a stronger financial position if you repay this other charge and will it 
allow you to make an increased monthly overpayment  at the end of any agreed  reduced 
payment arrangement?
If you could give me some  amounts to take to my manager. I will have another  chat and 
get back to you as soon as possible.
Mr M replied, saying:
Thank you for your email,  after considering the contents with [Mrs M] we feel it would 
certainly be beneficial  to reduce the payments as discussed for a 12 month  period.
This would enable us to clear the charge with [the solicitor] and by that time the other  
charge will have also come to an end [name of other charge holder] so both charges will 
be removed. If we don't pay back the charge to [the solicitor] we are in danger of losing 
the house.
Once this is paid off we will then be able to do a number of things:
1. Increase the monthly payments to clear  the arrears with Scottish Widows, in the region 
of £1000 over payment,  minimum.
2. Re-morgage [sic] the property to clear just the arrears to normalise the account.
The value of the property today is £ 1.1m so there  is plenty of equity  co [sic] cover any 
shortfall/arrears position at anytime.
Scottish Widows  asked  for further  information about the charge Mr M and Mrs M wanted to 
repay, and for full income  and expenditure information. It also asked about  the sale of the 
property Mr M was living in (as over the years  Mr M had made  various promises  to sell that 
property to clear these arrears).
Mr M replied in January  2016 to explain the debt was from legal fees incurred during a case, 
and that the charge for £34,000  had to be repaid that year. He said he was offering to pay 
the solicitors £3,000  a month. He also explained  that another company had charges that 
Ref: DRN09454624prevented both this property, and Mr Ms residential  property from being sold before 
January 2017,  albeit  he said they wouldnt be selling this property and theyd like to keep 
hold of the other property if they could.
Mr M said that once the legal fees were cleared then theyd reinstate payments to 
Scottish Widows  and continue to pay the £3,000  to it. Mr M set out their income  and 
outgoings, but included £25,000  annual rental  income in the income  list for the property he 
was living  in, which I can only assume  was an error as it seems unlikely Mr M was receiving 
£25,000 a year rental income for a one-bedroomed flat that he was also living in.
Having considered the full email trail its clear not only was it Mr M that approached Scottish 
Widows about making interest-only  payments, Mr M was made aware that this would 
increase the shortfall (arrears) balance, and he confirmed hed discussed it with Mrs M and 
they wanted to proceed.
Mr M and Mrs M have  said they dont know how the payments are allocated across  the two 
sub-accounts and have alleged  Scottish  Widows has done this in its favour, rather than in 
Mr M and Mrs Ms favour. Ive looked at the sub-account transactions  and I cant see that 
Scottish Widows  has mis-allocated  any funds, other than the instance it noticed  in 2012 
which was in Mr M and Mrs Ms favour.  As Mr M and Mrs Ms two sub-accounts are held on 
exactly the same interest rate theres  no benefit  to Scottish Widows  in mis-allocating any 
amounts.
I understand Mr M and Mrs M feel Scottish Widows hasnt done enough to help them, and 
they say as the house is worth about £1.5m  the mortgage doesnt pose a high risk. But any 
mortgage in such  serious  arrears for such a long time is a high-risk  account. 
Wed expect a lender  to look at offering help to consumers going through a temporary 
problem, especially in situations where  it can be seen their situation is likely to improve.  The 
difficulty here is that Mr M and Mrs Ms difficulty in getting on top of their arrears has been 
anything but temporary.  I understand Mr Ms employment  circumstances  changed 
significantly in 2008 and since then hes struggled  to find and maintain  a role that gives  him 
the same  income  and benefits as hed previously enjoyed up to 2008.  The pressure to make  
their mortgage payments  against such a backdrop must have been immense  for Mr M and 
Mrs M. But my impartiality means I must also have regard for Scottish  Widows  point  of view. 
Everything has a context. From Scottish  Widows side, Mr M and Mrs M owed it money and 
for many years they hadnt met all their contractual repayments. There are significant arrears  
on the account and a history of numerous  broken  promises to pay. Having considered 
everything it seems Scottish Widows  have showed  patience and leniency towards Mr M 
and Mrs M for a number  of years; it isnt obliged to do so indefinitely.
The mortgage is on a low interest rate (currently 1.5%), so its unlikely  anything  can be done 
to reduce the monthly payments there. The mortgage already  runs until Mr M and Mrs M are 
in their 60s so whilst there might be some  movement  possible  on the term that would  likely  
be limited and is subject  to a full application  and underwriting. I understand Scottish  Widows  
has told Mr M and Mrs M that they need  to receive  independent financial advice about a 
possible term extension and once  that was done  if the adviser felt it would be suitable for 
Mr M and Mrs M then Scottish Widows would be able to consider an application.
Ref: DRN09454625Scottish Widows  accepted payments equivalent  to just the interest for a year on the 
understanding Mr M and Mrs M would overpay significantly after that, but that didnt happen 
as instead after the year was up Mr M and Mrs M didnt even meet  their contractual monthly 
payment going  forward, let alone  pay the promised extra £1,000 a month minimum.
Mr M and Mrs M have  made various non-specific  allegations about errors  on their 
sub-accounts and have said they dont understand how the arrears have accrued. 
Scottish Widows  provided a full account audit to Mr M and Mrs M in May 2018, and has 
provided a full transaction history from that point until July 2019.  Despite  Mr M and Mrs M 
having that detailed information  since then theyve not provided details of any specific errors 
on their two sub-accounts.
Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to provide an auditing  service or carry 
out a forensic  analysis  of mortgage  accounts.  Ive looked at the audit and the transaction 
history and theres nothing on there that appears  unusual or incorrect (other than the error in 
Mr M and Mrs Ms favour that Scottish Widows had already identified). Of course, its open to 
Mr M and Mrs M to instruct an independent suitably qualified professional to audit their 
account. But that would have to be at their expense  though  if errors were  found to their 
financial detriment, they could complain about  them and their costs  in discovering them 
could be taken into account in putting  matters right. But as things  stand, Im not persuaded 
that Scottish  Widows has mis-managed  their account.
Its normal industry practice for a lender to record arrears on a credit file. In fact lenders have 
a duty to report that information. In this case I dont think Scottish  Widows is doing  anything 
wrong in reporting  the true arrears position  of Mr M and Mrs Ms mortgage  account  that is, 
theyre over the maximum that can be reported of six months in arrears.  The report isnt 
saying Mr M and Mrs M have missed that particular month, rather that the account position  
overall is over six months in arrears.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied Scottish Widows has acted reasonably  and so I 
make no order  or award of compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr M and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before  20 January 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0945462