K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy as he believes  he was missold his home insurance by Bank of Scotland plc.
background
Mr H was sold his policy in a branch  of his bank, in 2013.  He says he was told that he would 
be covered if an appliance broke down. He received his policy and subsequent renewal 
documents until 2018. Then in August 2018  his washing machine broke down. He rang to 
make a claim. He confirmed the machine was out of warranty. The claims  handler  told him 
that the damage to the machine was likely  to be due to wear and tear or mechanical  
breakdown, which were excluded under the policy. Bank of Scotland said that the policy  
hadnt been missold to him as he received renewal documents each year and was advised 
to read the policy to make sure it met his requirements.
On referral to this service  our investigator  didnt  uphold  Mr Hs complaint. He explained that 
the exclusions quoted were common to home  insurance policies  and that Mr H had received 
the documents every year.
Mr H disagreed  he believes that Bank of Scotland lied to him and misled  him into buying  
the policy. He didnt see the need to read the policy documents as he had believed what  the 
bank said to him.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs claim was turned down because his policy  didnt cover the incident he reported. This 
was that his washing machine, which was over five years  old at the time, had broken down. 
He was told by the claims handler that this was likely to be due to wear  and tear or 
mechanical breakdown,  which are excluded under the policy.
Mr H says he was told when he bought the policy that he would be covered if his appliance 
broke down,  so was surprised to be told he wasnt covered. Unfortunately  as the sale took 
place in the bank in 2013 theres no documentary  evidence  now of what  was discussed.  But 
as Im aware that no ordinary home insurance policy would cover  wear and tear or 
mechanical breakdown  of appliances, I have to say its unlikely he was told that.
Home insurance policies cover a wide range  of insurance perils  so Mr H would have 
benefitted from being covered over the years. He mentions that he was told he would be 
covered for alternative accommodation  if a fire made his home uninhabitable  which most 
such policies would  cover.
So as I cant be persuaded by the evidence that Mr H was told he would be covered for the 
breakdown of appliances I cant uphold  the complaint. I appreciate that he didnt feel the 
need to read the policy documents but if he had he couldve  seen the range of matters that 
home insurance gives cover for. Im not persuaded that even if he had found  out that the 
policy didnt cover his appliances for wear and tear, he wouldnt have continued to buy the 
policy. And as Ive said I dont think any other home  policy  would've  offered that cover.
Ref: DRN02117802So, as I dont think the policy was missold to Mr H, I cant uphold his complaint.  
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0211780