K821x#15complaint
Ms O complains that Nationwide Building Society stopped  sending  her paper statements 
without her consent or knowledge, which resulted in her incurring a late payment fee and 
having adverse  information recorded on her credit file.
background
Ms O holds a credit  card with Nationwide, which she opened  in August 2016. On 
5 June 2018 Ms O said she visited a Nationwide branch to apply for online banking  and to 
download the mobile banking app. She did this in branch due to issues with internet 
reception at her home  address. 
During that visit Ms O said she was given instructions by a staff on how to register  for 
internet banking and use the app. That same day, her credit  card statement preferences  
were changed  to paperless.  Prior  to that date her statements had been sent in the post. 
Ms O said she didnt  instruct  Nationwide  to set up paperless statements or change  how she 
was receiving them. She stated that if she had been  given  a choice she wouldnt have opted  
for paperless  statements because she likes to file away and keep the paper statements she 
was used to receiving.
Ms O said she was unaware that her statement preferences had been changed until she 
received a letter from Nationwide on 3 August 2018,  which  was dated 26 July 2018. This 
letter asked her to pay £25 immediately and explained that her credit  card had been 
suspended as Nationwide hadnt received  Julys payment. 
On receiving that letter Ms O telephone Nationwide. She explained  she hadnt received a 
statement since May 2018 and made a payment to her account. Nationwide agreed  to waive 
the late payment  fee Ms O had incurred, under its first time customer  error policy. But it 
refused to alter the missed payment information it had recorded on her credit  file.
Ms O wasnt  happy about Nationwides  approach here and complained. But it didnt think  it 
had acted unfairly. In its final response  to her complaint  it explained that Ms O had 
registered for online banking and paperless statements on 5 June 2018. It didnt accept that 
branch staff had changed Ms Os statement preferences without her knowledge.  And it said 
it was her responsibility to ensure her monthly  payments  reached  her account on time, even 
in the absence of a statement.  Nationwide  said it wasnt  prepared to withdraw  the late 
payment information  it had reported  to credit  reference agencies.  It said it had a duty to 
report financial information accurately. So, it didnt think it had made  an error. Ms O thought 
that was unfair so she referred her complaint  to our service.
When our investigator reviewed Ms Os complaint  they didnt  think Nationwide had treated 
her fairly. They didnt think Ms O had intended to change her statement preferences. And 
they were satisfied that, until July 2018, she had always  made  payments  to her account on 
time. They felt the missed  payment information  Nationwide had reported to credit  reference 
agencies didnt accurately reflect how Ms O had managed her account with it or other 
financial institutions she held credit with. So, they told Nationwide to expunge that 
information from her credit file. Ms O was happy  with our investigators  view but Nationwide 
didnt accept it and asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN05760982my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence Ive seen,  on balance, demonstrates that Ms O attended her branch on 
5 June 2018 and, its most likely, she did this because  she wanted to download  the mobile 
banking app and apply for online banking.  I say this because Ms Os recollection about this 
visit is clear and Ive seen evidence that the IP address used to set up her online banking  
matches the IP address  for the branch she attended.
Having taken into account what Ms O says about  what took place during that branch  visit Im 
persuaded that she was given assistance by Nationwide  about how to set up her online 
banking. I accept what Nationwide says about Ms O having to authorise any preference 
changes and choices  the set up process  would have offered her  even if she was assisted 
during that process by Nationwide staff.  But Nationwide  has also said it has no formal  
process for helping customers register for internet banking. So, the level of guidance and 
support would depend on the customers need and the staff member assisting them.
Here, I think  if Ms O was asking for assistance  it demonstrates that she was relying  on 
guidance from staff who she thought  would  be more familiar with the set up process.  I also 
accept what Ms O has told our service about the reasons why she would not have wanted  to 
change her statement  preferences to paperless. And, as Nationwide, doesnt  have  a record  
of this visit taking place, it cant offer a detailed explanation of what happened  or reasonably  
refute what Ms O says here.
Its clear to me that a mistake was made  when Ms Os statement preferences  were changed 
to paperless. In all the circumstances  Im persuaded that she didnt intend her statement 
preferences to change  to paperless. And I dont believe she would have asked for that to 
happen. I think the actions Ms O took after she received Nationwides July correspondence  
demonstrate that she was unaware  her statement preferences had changed. 
Its also clear  that Ms O omitted to make Julys  payment as a consequence of not receiving 
her statement by post, as would  ordinarily  have happened. I say this because as soon as 
she discovered she had missed a payment she made a payment to her account.  Ive 
reviewed her statements  carefully, which show that she maintained her account properly and 
in accordance with her terms  and conditions both before and after missing  Julys payment. 
So, Im satisfied she made payments on time for all months but July.
Our investigator rightly  considered the point that Ms O could have missed  Julys payment 
even if a statement  had been posted  to her. But the way in which  she managed  her account 
prior to July indicates  to me that this would  have been unlikely. Im therefore persuaded that 
the reason why Ms O missed her payment was due to her not receiving a statement.
Nationwide feels Ms O shouldnt use statements as a reminder to pay. But Ms O is elderly  
and relies on receiving her statements as a reminder to make payments to her account. She 
had a set routine for making payment on receipt of her statement. I dont  think how she 
approaches her financial affairs is unreasonable in the overall  circumstances. And it all adds 
weight to the reason why she wouldnt have wanted her statement  preferences to change. 
Nationwide told our service that in order to register for paperless  statements Ms O would 
have had to enter her email address. But Ms O said they were  sent to an email address  she 
Ref: DRN05760983no longer used. This meant she didnt receive  a notification telling her that she had a 
statement ready to view. 
I appreciate it was Ms Os responsibility to provide Nationwide her current email address 
when she registered  for online banking. But I think its unlikely she would have told 
Nationwide to use an email address she knew she could no longer access   especially if she 
was aware that this is how it would contact her. And it isnt clear why an outdated email 
address was transferred across to her online banking details. 
I understand that in the event that an email is returned undelivered Nationwides  policy  
would be to send  a letter informing a customer their statement was ready to view.  But if that 
email address didnt  reject  the email  that was sent to Ms O its possible that Nationwide 
wouldnt have received notification the email hadnt been delivered. And this may explain 
why neither Nationwide nor Ms O have been able to show our service  correspondence, 
which states a statement  was available to view.
Ill turn now to Ms Os complaint about  the late payment information that was reported  to 
credit reference agencies by Nationwide. 
I understand the importance of providing  accurate information to the credit reference  
agencies as any potential  lender will use it to decide  what importance  it attaches  to the 
information as to whether to lend to a customer or not. And Ive explained  why I believe that 
it wasnt Ms Os intention  to change her statement preferences. Ive outlined how that led to 
her missing  Julys payment, which was out of character. Apart from missing  Julys payment, 
she maintained  her account  in line with the terms and conditions Nationwide  has shared with 
our service.
In those circumstances, I think its unfair  that Ms O should have adverse information 
recorded on her credit  file. While I accept Nationwide  has a responsibility to provide an 
accurate record to credit reference agencies, I dont think  the information it recorded  
accurately reflects  how Ms O managed her account overall. I appreciate  she could add a 
notice of correction  to her credit file to explain what happened.  But I think the fairest way to 
resolve what happened is for Nationwide to remove the late payment information  it recorded.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to 
remove the late payment  information it recorded  on Ms Os credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0576098