K821x#15complaint
Miss W has complained that Indigo  Michael  Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) 
irresponsibly provided her with an unaffordable Safety Net facility  in 2015. Miss W also says 
that she struggled to repay her loans and is unhappy with the interest  charged on the facility 
once she told SNC  about her financial difficulties. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
July 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision,  so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  SNC hasnt responded to the 
provisional decision and Miss W told us she doesnt  have anything  further  to add. 
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Miss W nor SNC had anything further to add, I see no reason  to depart from the 
findings in the provisional decision. Therefore, based on everything Ive seen, I still think, for 
the reasons Ive outlined in the provisional decision, that SNC shouldnt  have  provided  the 
facility to Miss W.  
what SNC  should do to put things  right
To put things right for Miss W, SNC  should, in addition to what it has already agreed;
remove all the unpaid  interest and charges applied to the outstanding balance.  SNC 
should then re-work  the facility  as if all interest  elements of each payment went  
towards the current outstanding balance. But importantly, SNC needs to make sure 
that Miss W doesnt  repay more than the principal amount she borrowed.  
If, after the account rework Miss W has already paid enough  to fully repay the 
outstanding principal sum then any overpayment should be refunded  to her with 8% 
simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ws credit file as a result of this 
facility having  been given to her.
HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If after doing the above, an outstanding balance remains then Miss W and SNC should try 
and come to a mutually agreeable  repayment plan in order  to repay any outstanding 
principal. 
Ref: DRN07208012my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I partly uphold Miss Ws 
complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Miss W as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October  2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN07208013EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss W has complained that Indigo  Michael  Limited  (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC))  
irresponsibly provided  her with an unaffordable Safety Net facility in 2015.  Miss W also says, that she 
struggled to repay  her loans and is unhappy with the interest charged on the facility once she told 
SNC about her financial  difficulties. 
background
Miss W approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in May 2015. This was a running  credit account  
where a consumer  could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would  be deposited  into 
their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net amount  of the customers  
choosing. This facility was not a payday loan. 
Miss W was initially given  a facility with a £200 credit limit in May 2015. Her limit was then increased 
to £220 in June 2015. After the credit limit increase to £220  Miss W had some problems  repaying her 
loan. A repayment plan was set up but this appears to have failed. And looking at the statement of 
account provided  by SNC, it seems there  is an outstanding  balance.  
One of our adjudicators  looked  at Miss Ws complaint. He thought the checks SNC carried out didnt 
identify all the transactions visible on her bank statement, for example payments to two local 
authorities and three debt collection companies. These payments werent categorised by SNCs 
systems. And had the systems  categorised the payments correctly the adjudicator thought  it wouldve 
been apparent to SNC that Miss W couldnt afford to take on this facility. So he fully upheld her 
complaint. 
SNC disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman  to look at the case. It said that based on the way its 
systems interpreted the information from Miss Ws read only bank statements she had at least  around 
£650 disposable income per month, for the three months leading up to this facility  being  granted in 
May 2015. And this sum, wouldve been sufficient disposable  income to service  the facility,  with a limit 
of £200. 
No agreement could be reached,  so the case  has been passed to me for a final decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im still intending  to uphold Miss 
Ws complaint, for similar reasons as the adjudicator. And Ive explained below the reasons for my 
decision.
the relevant regulations in place at the time Miss W was given his Safety Net facility 
I think  it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Miss W this facility  when it was 
regulated by the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA). And the relevant regulatory rules in place at the 
time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of the FCA Handbook of 
rules and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing  to give a consumer a 
loan of this type. And it says a firm had to consider the potential  for the commitments  under the 
regulated credit agreement to adversely impact  the customers  financial situation as well as the 
ability of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the regulated  credit 
Ref: DRN07208014agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end agreement  (like Miss Ws facility),  to 
make payments within a reasonable  period.
CONC 5.2 also includes  some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs to bear in mind  when 
considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2)  says a firm should consider what  is 
appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative  to the customers 
financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains  further guidance on what a lender should  bear in mind  when thinking  about  
affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1)  says In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers 
ability to repay  the credit ..
CONC 5.3.1(2)  then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1) should include  the firm taking reasonable  steps to assess the customers ability  to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences..
In practice all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer 
wouldve been  able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely 
impacting on their financial situation. In practice this meant the lender had to gather enough 
information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender could 
take into account  before  agreeing to lend.  The key thing was that it required a lenders  checks  to be 
proportionate. And any checks had to take into account a number of different things,  such as how 
much was being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid.
Ive kept all this in mind  when thinking about whether SNC did what it needed to before  agreeing to 
Miss Ws Safety  Net facility.  As explained, Miss W was given what  was an open-ended credit  facility. 
So overall I think  that this means the checks SNC  carried out had to provide  enough for it to be able 
to understand whether Miss W would  be able to both service and then repay her facility within a 
reasonable period of time.
why I think  SNC  needed to do more before agreeing  to give Miss W her Safety Net facility
SNC says it reviewed Miss Ws bank transaction data for the three months prior to the facility  being  
approved, so in this case SNC had access to Miss Ws bank statements  from
 5 February 2015. And having looked at these bank  statements,  it was satisfied Miss W wasnt 
experiencing any financial  difficulty  and so she could  afford  to repay  her facility within  a reasonable 
period of time. 
The above is then combined with the results of SNC credit checks. Ive taken a look at the information 
that SNC was provided us from the credit reference agency, and there doesnt appear  to be anything  
in those results which wouldve led SNC to automatically decline  the facility. And I dont think it saw 
anything that wouldve likely prompted SNC to have asked Miss W further questions  about  her 
circumstances. 
Overall, SNC believed, based on the checks it had carried out, that Miss W had sufficient disposable 
income to be able to afford the repayments  on her credit facility of £200 as well on the increased 
credit limit of £220. 
Ref: DRN07208015Having carefully thought about everything provided, I broadly agree with the adjudicators assessment 
of Miss Ws case, I think there was enough  information available to SNC at the time the facility was 
approved, to show that Miss W wasnt  likely to be able to repay without undue difficulty. This also 
includes not categorising some of Miss Ws outgoings  correctly. This is important, as some of the 
transactions that werent categorised were  for third party debt collectors,  which is a clear sign,  that 
Miss W may have had some problems managing  her money. 
Ive thought about everything SNC told us in response to our assessment. However, after reviewing 
the same bank statements SNC saw, I still think  there  was sufficient information  available to it, to 
suggest that Miss W wasnt in a position to take on this facility. 
I think  that SNC needed to do more before  granting her the Safety Net facility.  I dont think  it is 
enough to simply obtain information and a lender  has to react to what it is seeing  in a proportionate 
manner. 
In this case, SNC saw from Miss Ws bank  statements that substantial  sums of money  were  being  
transferred from the account  it was monitoring  to another account in Miss Ws name. Which shouldve 
given SNC cause for concern, considering the account it saw is her main  bills account. 
To be clear,  I dont think that a lender  needs to ask a consumer for access to all of their accounts 
before agreeing to grant them  credit.  But where  a lender is aware that such  a significant  proportion of 
a consumers incoming funds are being  transferred to other accounts and there are other flags in the 
transaction data obtained, I think it is proportionate to carry  out further enquiries into these  other 
accounts. 
Given the amount  of money being transferred and the sheer  number of unanswered questions  
present in Miss Ws transaction data, I think that SNC  shouldve asked Miss W for more information in 
order to find out what was happening. 
The fact fairly  significant sums were  being transferred to another account,  is in my opinion, sufficient 
along with other indicators  that Ill comment on below to show that Miss W wasnt going to be in a 
position to sustainable repay the facility, and so SNC  shouldnt have granted it. 
SNC was aware,  from reviewing the bank  statements that Miss W was already making a number  of 
different payments each month to a number  of different debt collectors,  which  potentially indicated to 
SNC that Miss W was having ongoing financial difficulties and had previously had problems repaying 
other credit commitments.  
In addition, SNC could see, that in the months leading up to this facility  being  approved, Miss W had 
taken out new high cost credit from two different providers for over £3,000,  this further reduced any 
disposable income  SNC  may have  believed Miss W had available to her. 
One of the loans for £1,000 was deposited  in the month before the facility was approved, so no 
payments had been made to that credit  provider  when the facility was approved.  Given, the creditor 
provider and the long term nature of the loan, SNC ought to have reasonably believed that Miss Ws 
available disposable income had further reduced in the following months due to having  make 
repayments to another credit provider.  
There were  also signs, in the month before the facility was approved, that Miss W had entered into a 
new vehicle finance  agreement. Again,  this wouldve further diminished any disposable  income that 
SNC may have believed Miss W had. So while SNC said some payments were  discounted  from its 
affordability assessment  because  they didnt  appear in every month. I think  there were signs that 
actually what had happened  was that these agreements had ended  and Miss W was entering into 
new ones with different providers.  We can see this in May 2015 when there is a new direct debit for 
£310.62 which I believe  to be her new car finance.
Ref: DRN07208016 Overall and taking everything into account, I think not only did SNC fail to carry out proportionate 
checks before giving  Miss W her Safety  Net facility, but that Miss W also lost out as a result of this.
It therefore  follows, because I dont  think that SNC shouldve granted Miss W the initial  credit limit of 
£200, I also dont think, that it couldve  reasonably  believed that she was in a better  financial position 
before increasing her credit limit to £220. 
When weve decided a lender has made an error, our service attempts to put the consumer back  into 
the position they wouldve been in had an error  not been made. But that is not always possible,  
especially in these types of cases where  money has been lent and then spent. So, in these  
circumstances we would expect a customer repay the principal sum they have taken, in affect 
meaning that a customer has an interest free facility. And Ive kept this in mind when  thinking about 
what SNC needs to do to put things right.  
Ref: DRN0720801