K822xcomplaint
Ms S and Mr F are unhappy  with the way Union Reiseversicherung AG handled a claim they 
made on their travel  insurance policy. 
background 
Ms S, who brings this complaint, had to cancel her trip to Canada because  her mothers 
health deteriorated. Sadly, Ms Ss mother later passed away. URV  declined the claim and 
said her mothers medical condition was diagnosed in 2011.  They  said,  as the health 
deterioration related to a previously diagnosed condition(s), under the terms of the policy  
they werent going to cover the claim.
Ms S disagreed with URV and carried out some  research  on our services  approach  to 
similar cases. She quoted  a previous  final decision and said her circumstances were similar. 
She raised  a complaint  with URV  and, following a review, they decided that the original claim 
decision was in line with the terms of her policy. However they agreed to pay the claim 
because the intention of the policy was to cover  unavoidable,  unforeseen, unexpected 
losses. But URV said this claim payment was a gesture of goodwill, and not an admission  of 
liability.
When the case was being investigated by one of our adjudicators, URV offered a £50 
payment to recognise  any trouble  and upset Ms S may have been caused  because of the 
delay in reaching the original claim decision.  
The adjudicator decided URVs offer was fair and reasonable  because she agreed  the terms 
and conditions werent met by the circumstances  which led to the claim.  She said URV had 
considered Ms Ss appeal and processed the final settlement  quickly.
Ms S disagreed and said she had to carry out considerable research to persuade  URV  to 
overturn its original claim decision. She says an unfair term has been applied in her claim 
and, had she not complained, she wouldnt have got a settlement. She felt she shouldnt 
have had to do this whilst grieving the loss of her mother. 
 
So the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  to learn of Ms Ss loss and I empathise  with the difficult experience she had. My 
role is to decide whether URV has followed the terms and conditions  of her policy, and 
whether it has treated  her fairly in line with the relevant rules  and industry guidelines.  
the policy terms
In the cancellation section  of the policy the terms and conditions say that cover will be 
provided if: 
Ref: DRN04743422A close relative or a close business associate of yours in your home country is ill, 
injured or dies before  the trip starts.
This is provided the policyholder accepts:
that we can only offer to review and extend  cover for existing medical conditions to 
our own policyholders so if any of the following people cause you to cancel because 
of a reoccurrence or complication of a medical condition diagnosed prior to booking, 
you will not be covered  .a non-travelling close relative of you, or your travel 
companion.  
The emphasis was added by URV. I also note that at the bottom of the page theres a red 
triangle with an exclamation mark in it. Above it are the words BE AWARE in red capital 
letters. Within that section it says:
No cover is provided under this section for a previously diagnosed condition of any 
non-travelling close relative. 
the claim
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that URV has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I appreciate Ms Ss circumstances may have been similar to a case  previously considered  
by our service. However, every case is different and I need to consider the evidence 
presented in this case, which relates  to a different set of terms and conditions. I am 
upholding Ms Ss complaint but I think  the settlement URV has suggested is fair. I say that 
because: 
Ms Ss policy specifically states it will provide cover for the cancellation of a trip due 
to a close relatives illness but it wont  pay if the illness relates  to a previously 
diagnosed condition. Its not unusual  for travel  insurance policies to contain such an 
exclusion, or a similar type of exclusion; 
URV havent said Ms S needed to disclose her close relatives condition, or she 
ought to have been aware of it. This policy simply doesnt cover it. As the claim 
resulted from Ms Ss mothers previously diagnosed  condition I dont think  it was 
unreasonable of URV to reject the claim initially;
When Ms S complained I can see URV  took a pragmatic approach and thought  about  
what the policy intended to do. They offered  a resolution which  was outside of what 
the terms and conditions allowed, as a gesture of goodwill. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case;
Having checked  the claims history, I do think there were some  delays in URVs 
handling of the original claim. But I think URVs response to Ms Ss appeal was 
prompt. So I think the £50 URV has already offered fairly  reflects the inconvenience 
caused by those delays, particularly taking  into account that theyve made  an offer to 
cover the cancellation costs as well. 
Ref: DRN04743423putting things right
URV needs to put things right by paying  Ms S and Mr F £50 compensation for the delays in 
handling the claim if it hasnt done  so already. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Ms S and Mr Fs complaint about Union 
Reiseversicherung AG and direct them to pay the suggested settlement, including the 
additional £50 offered,  if they havent  done so already.  
However, I dont require them to pay any additional compensation as I think  the suggested 
settlement is fair. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Ms S and Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2019.
Anna Wilshaw. 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0474342