K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains,  through his wife Mrs W, that British Gas Insurance Limited  is responsible 
for poor service in connection  with his home  emergency insurance policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
other companies and individuals  insofar as I hold that insurance company responsible for 
their actions.
Mrs W has some health issues. So she has more than the usual need  for central  heating  and 
hot water. 
Mr W had a British Gas HomeCare Two policy to cover their central  heating  boiler.  He also 
had gas appliance  cover for a gas fire. 
On 24 December 2018 Mr and Mrs W reported a gas leak to the gas infrastructure company. 
It cut off the supply  leaving  them  with no gas heating or hot water. British Gas visited  that 
day but didnt  fix the leak.  
After some telephone calls, Mr W paid a private  plumbing and heating company to re-run  
some of the gas pipework. Its invoice comprised the following:
initial visit      £75.00
materials    £138.00 
labour £1,080.00
subtotal £1,293.00
VAT    £258.60
total £1,551.60
Mr W complained  that British Gas should  reimburse  him and pay compensation. By a final 
response letter dated 9 February 2019,  British  Gas declined  to do so. Mr W brought the 
complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She didnt think  it was 
unreasonable for Mr and Mrs W to seek alternative  arrangements to complete  the work  as 
Mr W was extremely  worried  about his wifes health  and they felt they couldnt  rely on 
British Gas to complete  it. 
The investigator recommended  that British Gas should:
1.pay for the cost of the work completed  by the private plumbing company; and
2.pay Mr and Mrs W £200.00 for the significant amount of distress and inconvenience 
this has caused.
Mr W agreed with the investigators opinion.
British Gas disagreed  with the investigators  opinion in part. It asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. It says, in summary, that:
Ref: DRN02496402British Gas had planned  to carry out this work. This was for 1 man for 1 day. This 
equates to £90.00  per hour for 8 hours  totalling £720.00. British Gas would be 
prepared to offer this.
 It had already diagnosed the issue and what needed to be done  to resolve it. So it 
wont agree to cover the cost for the private plumbing and heating  companys initial  
inspection on 29 December 2018.
The cost of the materials of £138.00  is what it would expect to see and so it will be 
happy to reimburse  that. 
The private plumbing and heating companys labour costs are particularly high for 
this work  and is carried out over 2 days. 
British Gas disagrees with Mr Ws account of its engineers behaviour.
It incorrectly sent the same engineer when asked not to. As Mr W refused its 
engineer entry, it was unable to resolve matters, and he waited longer for the private  
plumbing and heating company to carry out the repair than if he had allowed its visit. 
This also contributed  to the delay in restoring the heat and hot water.  
Our recommendation  for £200.00 for the inconvenience caused  is on the high side. 
British Gas has previously provided  Mr W with £30.00 as a gesture of goodwill. It 
would be happy to increase this by a further £70.00  to bring its total offer to £100.00 
Mr W didnt accept the amounts offered by British  Gas. So I have  reviewed the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular I have  had access to the telephone  call recordings.
From what  Mr and Mrs W have said, they had a gas meter with pipework inside  their home 
leading to a gas boiler and gas cooker  in the kitchen and a gas fire in the lounge. Some of 
that pipework ran in the solid ground-floor screed under floor coverings.
I consider that the policy covered the pipework. The policy covered making access  to a 
leaking pipe,  fixing the leak and making  the floor level again. The policy  didnt cover the 
reinstatement of floor coverings.
On 24 December 2018, the gas infrastructure company  had turned off the supply at the 
meter. So Mr and Mrs W had no gas heating when they called British Gas.
I think their expectation was that British Gas would trace, access  and fix the leak so as to 
restore central heating  in one visit. But  from what happened later  I dont think  that was 
possible.
A British Gas engineer visited at around  midnight. From  the file I think his expectation was 
that he was to urgently check what could be done. I dont  have enough  evidence  to show  
what equipment he had in his vehicle.
Ref: DRN02496403I accept that  in order to get access to the floor - he removed a radiator cover. Whilst there 
is conflicting evidence,  I dont find that he did so without permission. Whilst Mr and Mrs W 
may have  thought he handled the cover roughly, I dont have enough evidence to say that 
he did.
I dont know exactly what was said. But I dont  doubt that the engineer said he couldnt start 
the work  there  and then. He said he would  come back  on 28 December  2018.  I accept that 
he said he would need to make access through the floor screed and that he wouldnt 
reinstate floor coverings.
I havent seen  enough evidence to find that he was rude. But no doubt Mr and Mrs W were 
disappointed and found him unhelpful.
On 25 December 2018 they rang British Gas to complain. Mr W told British  Gas of his wifes 
health conditions.  So the call-handler said she would arrange  for an appointment for the 
morning of 26 December  for an engineer to assess the situation. Mr W said they didnt want  
the same  engineer to visit them again  and the call-handler  agreed. 
British Gas didnt  keep the appointment  on 26 December or contact Mr and Mrs W. So 
Mrs W called  British Gas. Only then did British Gas say that it had rescheduled the 
appointment for 28 December, as it was a six hour job. Mr W again explained about his 
wifes health conditions 
The call handler said she would call them back in 20 minutes. But that didnt happen. So 
Mrs W had to call British Gas again.  The call handler said an emergency appointment had 
now been booked  for that day. British  Gas failed to keep that appointment too.
On 28 December 2018 the same  British Gas engineer  returned  to Mr and Mrs Ws home. 
That was contrary to what British  Gas had said would happen and I find it inappropriate  in 
the circumstances. They  sent him away.
On 29 December, the private plumbing  and heating company made an initial visit. 
On 2 and 3 January 2019, that company did the work described in its invoice as follows:
Re-ran  gas supply from gas meter to first floor. Lifted first floor boarding and ran new 
supplies under  floor dropping to ground  floor in the kitchen to serve  the gas boiler 
and gas cooker. Tested and purged new installation on completion  and 
recommissioned all appliances connected. Left gas fire redundant in position, capped 
left redundant  the old leaking gas pipe work within  the solid ground floor .
From that, I find that the company had avoided digging up the ground floor after Mr W chose 
to sacrifice the supply  to the gas fire. 
I consider that British  Gas could and should  have done the same  or similar work under the 
policy  with cooperation from Mr and Mrs W.
But  by having repeatedly failed to do what it told them  it would do - British Gas had 
forfeited the trust of Mr and Mrs W. And the private company took three visits to finish  its 
work. So Im not at all persuaded that British Gas wouldve finished  it in any less time. 
Ref: DRN02496404So I find it fair and reasonable to direct British  Gas to reimburse Mr W for the invoice of the 
private plumbing and heating company.  I will also direct British Gas to pay interest  at our 
usual rate.
From the telephone  recordings, I find that  by the shortcomings Ive identified   British Gas 
caused Mr W extra distress and inconvenience  at an already  difficult  time. His distress  
included distress at the effect on Mrs W with her health conditions.  So I find £200.00 fair and 
reasonable compensation. If she had been  a joint policyholder and complainant I wouldve 
awarded that sum jointly to Mr and Mrs W.
Ive seen a copy  of a British Gas cheque for £30.00  payable to Mr W dated 
27 December 2018. If Mr W has presented it for payment then I will direct British  Gas to pay 
him the balance of £170.00.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr W:
1.£1,551.60  in reimbursement of the private  plumbing and heating  companys invoice; 
and
2.simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from 3 January 2019 to the date 
of reimbursement.  If British Gas considers that HM Revenue and Customs  requires it 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr W how much  its taken  off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate;  and
3.£200.00 for distress  and inconvenience  (less £30.00 if Mr W has presented its 
cheque for that amount).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0249640