K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim on his travel  insurance policy.
background
Mr H was on holiday when he lost his earphones, which he says were worth  around £275. 
He made  a claim under this travel  insurance  policy with AXA, which  it declined  because it 
classed earphones as gadgets and his policy didnt include cover for lost gadgets. 
Mr H complained to AXA,  saying he knew he didnt purchase additional cover  for gadgets. 
Mr H says he read all the relevant parts of the policy he was purchasing, but didnt  read the 
part about  gadgets because he didnt consider earphones  to be gadgets. He didnt think  the 
policy wording was clear enough.
AXA reiterated that the loss of Mr Hs earphones wasnt covered under his policy  so he 
referred his complaint to our service.  One of our investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint but 
didnt uphold  it. Our investigator  noted Mr H bought the policy  online,  and AXA hadnt 
provided any advice.  So AXA didnt need to make sure the policy  was suitable for Mr H and 
it was for Mr H to decide whether the policy met his needs.
Our investigator thought Mr Hs policy clearly defined earphones as gadgets and was clear  
that earphones werent covered under the policy without separate  gadget cover.  Our 
investigator noted Mr H wouldve had to confirm hed read the policy documents  before he 
purchased it and was given  the option to cancel the policy within 14 days  of taking it out if he 
didnt think the policy was right for him.
Mr H disagreed. He reiterated that he didnt consider earphones to be a gadget and provided 
dictionary definitions to support his view.  He said it was unfair to expect him to have read 
and memorised all of the policy documents and didnt  think  the policy  was clear about what  it 
defined as a gadget or what was excluded under the policy.  So this has come to me for a 
review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not upheld  Mr Hs 
complaint for the same reasons as our investigator. I realise  my decision will likely disappoint 
Mr H, but Ill explain my reasons. 
AXA has provided the screen  quotation  pages Mr H would have seen before purchasing the 
policy, and AXA says Mr H would have  had to tick a box to confirm  hed read the policy  
documents before purchasing the policy. Mr Hs policy sets out:  
Ref: DRN02772772What is not covered  under  Section E
 baggage
Valuables left unattended at any time unless in a hotel safe,  safety deposit box 
or in your  locked  accommodation.
Baggage  contained in an unattended  vehicle between 9 pm and 9 am (or at any 
time between 9 am and 9 pm unless it is locked out of sight in a Secure baggage 
area)  Please see the definition of Secure baggage area in the Definitions in the 
policy wording.
Loss, theft or damage to gadgets. Claims for gadgets should be made under  
section E1  gadget cover or E2  gadget cover extension.
Im satisfied this policy wording is sufficiently clear  that loss or damage to gadgets  are not 
covered under his policy. Page 12 of Mr Hs policy sets out items AXA considers to be 
gadgets, and this includes Head/Ear Phones.  So Im satisfied earphones  are clearly 
defined as a gadget under Mr Hs policy. As any loss of a gadget  is not covered under 
Mr Hs policy,  Im satisfied  AXAs decision to decline Mr Hs claim is a reasonable one.
I accept Mr H assumed earphones wouldnt be classed as gadgets and disagrees with AXA 
that earphones are a gadget. But as an insurer, it is for AXA to decide what  items it will 
insure under its policies  and it is AXAs decision as to what  is and isnt classed as a gadget. 
Im satisfied the policy wording is clear  that earphones are classed as a gadget.  
Mr H argued that he didnt read the parts of his policy about  gadgets as he didnt think  they 
were relevant. Because  AXA didnt give Mr H advice on taking the policy, it didnt have to 
check the policy was suitable for him  it was up to him to decide whether the policy was 
right for him. But it had to give him clear enough  information to decide whether the policy 
met his needs. AXA says Mr H would have had to confirm hed read the policy documents 
before proceeding to purchase  the policy. The explanations about what  was and wasnt 
covered and what is and isnt considered  to be a gadget were  available for Mr H to consider 
before he bought the policy. So Im satisfied  AXA gave Mr H enough information to enable  
him to decide whether the policy met his needs. 
As Ive said above,  its likely Mr H confirmed hed read the policy documents.  But Mr H 
wouldnt have had to read the add-on gadget cover or the whole policy  to discover  that AXA 
defined gadgets to include earphones  the definitions referred to in the policy were set out 
on page 12 of the policy. And when Mr H was sent the policy documents after he bought it, 
he was given a further 14 days to read the policy and cancel it without charge if he didnt 
think it met his needs. So I dont  think  it would be reasonable to uphold his complaint on this 
basis.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 15 February  2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0277277