K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains that Santander UK Plc blocked  his account and didnt allow him
access to his funds.  Mr N says this meant he incurred  additional  costs  when making  his Visa
application to the home  office.
background 
Mr N holds an account with Santander.  This account isnt his main bank account in the UK. 
Mr N has lived in the UK for a number of years  but his Visa was due to expire in January
2018. Mr N wanted  to apply for a new Visa. He wanted to apply for a Tier 1 (entrepreneurial) 
Visa. 
Mr N knew he needed to have access to £50,000 in order to submit an application. Mr N 
says a relative agreed to give him £19,750.  And he had the remaining balance  in his other 
bank account  with bank A.
On 8 November 2017 a transfer of £19,750 was paid into Mr Ns Santander  account.  Mr N 
then tried to make two online transfers from his Santander account to his account with    
bank A. But these two transfers were blocked and Mr N was unable  to use his Santander  
account.
A letter was sent from Santander to Mr N on 10 November 2017, following Santanders 
decision to block his account.  
On 10 November 2017, Santander also contacted bank B (the senders bank) about the 
transfers of £19,750  which  were paid into Mr Ns account. They  wanted  bank B to confirm  
that their customer  was aware  of the transfer out of their account and confirm  it as genuine.
Mr N has provided us a letter which is dated  16 November 2018 which shows that he had 
been in touch with an immigration specialist to help with his Visa Application.
On 20 November 2017, Santander sent a chaser to bank B for information about the funds. It 
also called  Mr N and asked him to provide  proof that he was entitled to the funds which were 
in his account.
On 21 November 2017, Santanders records show they received mobile screen  shots to 
show the money leaving the senders  account. This was received by the correct department 
in Santander on 22 November.
On 24 November 2017, Santander decided the mobile banking screen shots were not 
sufficient and they made a note on their records to ask Mr N for bank statements. 
On 1 December 2017, Santander sent another chaser to bank B.
On 8 December 2017, Santander made a decision to close  Mr Ns account.
On 9 December 2017 Mr N called into a Santander  branch  with his relative to confirm that 
she had sent the money to his account  for the Visa application.
Ref: DRN09927702On 12 December 2017, Santander wrote a letter  to Mr N in response  to his complaint about  
his account being blocked and the account closure. The bank offered £50 to recognise  that 
he may have been given  misleading information  about the proof of funds he was requested  
to provide.
Mr N says because he couldnt provide  evidence  of the £50,000  he had to change his Visa 
application. He had to leave the country  so he could apply for a study Visa.  He also had to 
sign up to a course and pay for tuition fees.  Ive seen evidence to show  that a payment was 
made to a university  on 19 December 2017.
On 16 January 2018, bank B got in touch with Santander and provided the additional 
information which was required. As a result of this information Santander sent Mr N a 
cheque for the remaining funds in his account  on 22 January 2018.
Our investigator looked at the case and initially said the bank is entitled  to review and place 
blocks on an account. She explained  Santander was waiting for information from bank B and 
Santander didnt  receive this until January 2018.
She explained she didnt think Santander acted unreasonably in blocking the account.  But 
she felt they couldve done more following Mr Ns visit into the branch  on                             
11 December 2017. She said she couldnt  ask them to reimburse  the expenses  relating to 
the visa application, solicitor fees or travel costs. She said this was because  she couldnt be 
certain that the tier 1 Visa application wouldve been successful. She took into account the 
fact that Mr N would now have a qualification from the course  he signed up to. So, she didnt 
think it was reasonable  to ask Santander to pay Mr Ns tuition fees. She recommended 
Santander pay Mr N £200 in addition to the £50 already paid.
Mr N says this is unfair because he has incurred significant costs. He had to leave the UK to 
apply for the student Visa. He now has a university course which  he didnt want.  The total 
value of costs Mr N would like the bank to refund is £16,450.02. He also let me know that he 
didnt include the daily costs of having to attend  his course.
my provisional findings  and the  parties responses
I issued a provisional decision and in summary, I said:
It was reasonable  for Santander  to ask for additional information about  the large lodgement 
made into Mr Ns account. I said this because in the six months period leading  up to the 
lodgements Mr Ns account balance rarely exceeded £1,000.  Prior  to these payments into 
Mr Ns account the activity was small payments in and out of the account. I do appreciate 
from Santanders point  of view that the two lodgements into the account were out of 
character for Mr N. I think it was reasonable for Santander to ask questions  about the 
payments made into the account.
Given the activity on the account it wasnt unreasonable for Santander to contact bank B. I 
was satisfied that Santander continued  to chase bank B for a response.  It wasnt  until         
16 January 2018  Santander phoned  bank B and it was following this discussion they decided 
to release the funds to Mr N. I felt it was unfortunate  for Mr N that Bank B didnt respond to 
Santander until January 2018
Santander was entitled to close  Mr Ns account immediately without notice. I said this 
because their decision was based  on the information they held at the time. At the time of 
Ref: DRN09927703deciding to close the account  Santander didnt have any additional information about  the 
lodgements made into Mr Ns account.  The terms and conditions  of the account say:
 18.2 You or we may close  your account at any time by giving the other notice without giving
any reason. We may also close or suspend your current account if it has been inactive for
some time. If we decide  to do this well give you at least two months notice  (30 days  in the
case of Non-Payment Accounts).
If there are funds in the account  we may transfer  these to another account you hold with us
or send  them to you at the last address we hold for you. If you are in significant  breach of
these Conditions or the Specific Conditions on your account, (or if you have failed to remedy
a breach where we have asked you to do so) we may close your account  on giving
immediate notice or less notice than that specified in this Condition.
18.3 It is a condition  that you do not:
a) act abusively, offensively or violently  towards our staff;  or
b) become bankrupt; or
c) misuse  your account; or
d) act dishonestly with us; or
e) act in any way to give rise to reasonable suspicion of fraud  or other  criminal activities.
And, if any of the above applies, you will be in breach of these Conditions  and we can close
your account  on giving you immediate notice or less notice than that specified  in Condition
18.2 in Section  2A.
I was satisfied given  the individual circumstances  it was reasonable for Santander to 
consider that Mr N was acting in a way that gave rise to a reasonable suspicion of fraud.  And 
I didnt think by 8 December 2017  Mr N had provided enough information to alleviate  their 
suspicion. Because of this, I was satisfied  that Santander was entitled to make  a decision to 
close Mr Ns account without providing  him with notice.
I didnt think Santander  couldve done  more after Mr N visited the branch with his relative. 
The branch  said the statement provided by Mr Ns relative was an online banking and they 
didnt accept this as evidence. I thought it was reasonable for Santander not to accept the 
online statement in this individual  case because  there was a concern about the activity on 
the account. And the fact that Mr N attempted to transfer the money immediately after it 
came into his account. As Santander  had reasonable  concerns a statement which  was 
posted out to Mr Ns relative  or was obtained in a branch of bank B wouldve provided  
Santander with reassurances  that the funds were genuinely intended for him.
In my view, I thought  Mr N didnt  take reasonable steps to provide  the additional information 
to Santander.  And Santander was entitled to get additional information directly  from Bank  B. 
I didnt think Santander  needed to pay Mr N any further compensation. 
In response to my provisional decision Santander didnt have any further comments  and 
accepted my decision.
Mr N disagreed with my decision and referred me to additional evidence.  He told me that his 
main complaint is about the holding of the funds in his account for more than six weeks. He 
said the bank  didnt ask him to bring  his relative into branch  but he volunteered to do this. He 
says Santander  already  made a decision to close the account without asking for further 
information. The bank  didnt ask additional questions or review  the information  he sent 
Ref: DRN09927704before making  the decision to close his account. He wanted to know if I considered  the 
information Santander had asked for to alleviate their suspicions. 
Mr N said he wasnt asked for a statement from his relative, so I was incorrect  to say that the 
statement wasnt in the format that was requested. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, I dont intend to depart
from my provisional decision.  
I thank Mr N for his submissions. And Ive given careful thought  to what  he said. Mr N said 
he understood that Santander could close his account. So, I wont go into further details on 
this point. 
Mr N said he visited the branch with his relative  and a staff member of bank B. I went  back to 
Santander and bank B to find out more  information about what happened in the branch. 
Unfortunately, bank B explained the manager  of the branch no longer worked there. 
Mr Ns branch of Santander confirmed they did recall Mr N coming into the branch with his 
relative and providing  additional information. This additional information was a statement. 
The staff in Santander did call head office  and were told the last piece  of information they 
were waiting on was confirmation from bank B. The staff member  of Santander contacted  
the local bank  B branch and asked  them to respond  to Santanders  request.  
In Mr Ns individual case the concern  was not only that the amount of money being paid into 
the account was large but Mr N also tried to move the money  to another  account very 
quickly. Mr N has explained the reason  for doing  this. And I can see he went  to a lot of effort 
to try and access the money and provide Santander with as much  information as he possibly 
could. 
Ive considered whether Santanders actions  were fair. Santander has explained  that they 
were waiting for bank  B to respond to its request. The staff member  in the local Santander 
office also went to bank B asking them to respond. 
Given the activity on Mr Ns account, on this occasion, I dont think  Santanders  actions were  
unreasonable. I know Mr N has lost out on the chance to apply for the Visa he wanted to 
because he didnt have  access to £50,000.  And he has incurred additional costs as a result 
of Santander not allowing him access to the money  in the account. But given the 
circumstances Santander had a right to ask bank B for confirmation  that the payment was 
intended for him and that it was genuine. I think Santander shouldve  been clearer with Mr N 
that until they had satisfactory evidence from bank B they were not going to return  the funds. 
I accept that not having access to the funds has led to financial  losses  for Mr N. But Im 
satisfied Santander  were entitled  to wait for bank B to provide further  information  before 
releasing the funds.  So, I cannot  say that Santander  has made a mistake in reviewing the 
account and asking bank B for additional information  before releasing  the funds. 
Ref: DRN09927705my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold  Mr Ns complaint about  
Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Tracey Nugent
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0992770