K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains British  Gas Insurance Limited didnt complete an annual service on his boiler 
for a few years; and when  it did, it didnt identify a problem which  led to a leak that damaged  
his boiler beyond economical repair.  He also complains gas safety  inspections  werent  
completed, which left him without the safety certificates he requires as a landlord.
background
Mr T is entitled  to an annual boiler  service and a gas safety inspection under his British  Gas 
insurance policy that protects his boiler  and central heating. The policy covers a property he 
lets out to tenants.
In December 2018, British Gas completed  a boiler  service and a gas safety  inspection.  Mr T 
says the next day the boiler was found  leaking.  He says because  he was unable to raise 
British Gas, he contacted  a local gas engineer. Mr T says the engineer condemned the 
boiler and noted  it hadnt  been  serviced for years. The engineer fitted a new boiler.  
Mr T complained to British  Gas that lives had been put at risk, and he asked for a refund of 
the premiums he had paid over the last 12 years. British Gas explained  although an annual 
service hadnt been completed between October 2015 and December 2018,  it had sent 
letters and reminders each year for a service to be booked. It also said there  was no 
indication of a leak during  its engineers visit in December  2018.
British Gas went on to explain that whilst it understood Mr Ts decision to replace the boiler  
due to its age, a leaking expansion  vessel wouldnt require a new boiler.  British  Gas also 
said it was unwilling to contribute towards  his costs  as it wasnt given an opportunity to 
undertake a repair.
Mr T continued to correspond with British  Gas, and he later referred his complaint to this 
service. Hes made the following points:
-British Gas was required to service the boiler  and issue a gas safety  certificate, every 
year. He says because  this wasnt done between October  2015 and December 2018, 
he was made an illegal  landlord. He says British  Gas knows hes a landlord, so it 
should have contacted  his tenants  to arrange the annual services.
-The tenants say the December 2018 service was brief,  and the boiler cover wasnt 
removed. He says on a gas service the cover of the appliance  must  be removed to 
check it thoroughly, otherwise its not been checked.
-The expansion vessel had rusted and was leaking, and water was also coming from 
the diverter valve. The electrics were also damaged from being sat in water. He said 
the boiler was beyond  economical  repair due to the cost of the replacement  parts.
-His old boiler has since  been  disposed of, so its not available for inspection. But it 
took British Gas over two months to respond  to his complaint, and it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  the engineer to keep his old boiler  for that long.
Ref: DRN07526402An investigator here considered the complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld.  She 
noted that, under the policy terms, British  Gas wouldnt replace Mr Ts boiler  in the event it 
couldnt repair it. As such, she didnt think British Gas needed to cover  Mr Ts replacement  
boiler costs. She also didnt think British Gas should  contribute the amount it would have 
paid for the repairs as she hadnt  seen anything that persuaded  her the boiler  was 
repairable, and British  Gas wasnt given an opportunity to complete a repair. 
Our investigator was also persuaded  that British Gas had carried out the necessary checks 
the day before the leak, and the boiler wasnt leaking  at the time of the service. So, she 
didnt think British Gas should have identified  the issue. Because  Mr T disagreed,  his 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Having listened  to Mr Ts call with our investigator, I appreciate he feels strongly about this 
matter. However, Ive reached  the same  outcome  as our investigator,  for much the same  
reasons. Ill explain  why.
Mr T hasnt  asked  for a contribution towards his replacement boiler costs; hes asked for his 
policy premiums to be refunded from when  the policy  started. However, given Mr Ts policy 
covered boiler  repairs, Ive considered  whether British Gas should assist  with his costs.
As explained by our investigator, under the terms, Mr Ts boiler wasnt eligible to be replaced 
in the event it couldnt be repaired by British Gas. As such, Im satisfied British Gas doesnt  
need to cover his replacement  boiler  costs. 
Furthermore, even if the boiler could have been repaired, and therefore, British  Gas would 
have had some repair  costs, the policy  terms explain money wont be offered instead of it 
undertaking repairs. Importantly, I havent  seen anything that persuades  me Mr T made 
reasonable attempts to contact British Gas, for it to repair the damage.  So, for these 
reasons, Im not persuaded British Gas needs  to contribute  towards his costs.  
Mr T says a boiler cover should be removed during a service,  and I can understand why this 
might be expected. I dont  know if the boiler  cover  was removed during the 2018 service; or 
if it had been,  whether  the expansion  vessel  issue ought to have been  identified. However, 
the policy terms only require British Gas to check the boiler is running safely and efficiently. 
The terms explain if a visit shows its necessary to take the boiler apart to adjust or clean it, 
British Gas will do so. But, the terms dont require British Gas to complete a general clean, 
or to inspect every part. I havent been shown  or told anything  that persuades  me it was 
necessary for British  Gas to remove Mr Ts boiler cover during the 2018 service.
Ref: DRN07526403British Gas says its engineer completed the necessary safety  and efficiency tests,  and there 
were no issues identified.  On balance, I consider it likely the required tests were completed, 
and the boiler  wasnt leaking on the day of the inspection. I say this because a gas safety 
certificate was issued. If it had been leaking,  I also consider it likely the leak would have 
been apparent  to the tenants. Therefore,  I accept British  Gas fulfilled its responsibilities  
during the service and it isnt at fault for what happened  the following day.
Equally, even if the annual services and safety inspections had taken place in 2016 and 
2017, given the 2018 visit didnt identify the issue with the expansion vessel, Im not 
persuaded earlier visits would have done  either.  
Mr T says his premiums should be refunded on the basis annual services werent completed 
and gas safety  certificates  issued.  However,  Ive seen records which show annual  visits took 
place between 2009 and 2015,  and British Gas says annual service reminders were  sent in 
2017 and 2018. So overall,  Im satisfied Mr T has had the benefit of the cover, and I cant 
reasonably decide his premiums should be refunded.
Mr T says British  Gas was responsible for ensuring his annual  boiler  services  and gas safety 
inspections took place. But whilst I would expect reminders to be sent, in my view, it was for 
Mr T to make the appointments and to ensure he had the necessary safety certificates. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr T. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0752640