K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (GLI),  who provided the gadget cover 
element of his travel  insurance policy, refused to pay out following a claim he made for the 
theft of some  electronic items whilst  on holiday.
background
My M purchased a travel  insurance policy, which was provided by an insurer  Ill call IC. He 
purchased additional gadget cover  as part of this policy   this element was provided by GLI.
Whilst on holiday, Mr Ms gadgets were  stolen. Hed placed his electronic items  (and other 
things) in a bag and left this on a beach when he went into the water. Whilst in the water the 
bag was taken.  Mr M says he saw it being stolen and tried,  unsuccessfully,  to give chase. He 
reported the theft to the local Police. The bag wasnt recovered.
Upon returning  home,  Mr M submitted a claim for his loss. IC settled a claim for the loss of 
some local currency, but GLI refused to settle  a claim for the loss of Mr Ms electronic 
gadgets that were in his bag. This was because the bag (and gadgets) were left unattended  
in a public  place, and the policy  specifically excludes any losses  suffered in this way.
Mr M was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to us. He wants  GLI to pay the claim. 
However, one of our investigators agreed  with GLI. Mr Ms bag was unattended  at the time 
of the theft  he was in the sea. The policy exclusions applied, and GLI were right to refuse  
the claim.  Unhappy with this response, Mr M asked an ombudsman  to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I sympathise with Mr M because of the loss he has suffered, Im afraid  I agree with 
our investigators outcome, and for essentially the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Its clear Mr M intended to cover  his gadgets whilst  away on holiday.  I can see he purchased 
separate gadget cover  as an extra  to the standard travel  insurance  purchased,  from his 
broker. Ive looked  at the policy documents  Mr M was provided with, which  set out the scope 
and limitations of the gadget cover. However,  its the exclusions that are of importance here. 
The policy says, at page 21 of 24, cover will not be provided if:
Theft or accidental loss  where  the gadget  has been left unattended  in a public 
place
The policy defines  unattended, at page  8 of 24, as being:
Not within your sight at all times  and out of your arms-length reach
In this case, Mr M agrees the bag was taken whilst he was in the sea. Mr M says the bag 
was within  sight at all times, but it wasnt within arms-length reach. As such, according to the 
terms of the policy, the bag was unattended. And the policy  is very clear  that it wont  cover a 
loss where the gadgets are unattended in a public place  and the beach was a public place.
Ref: DRN00016592Mr M has questioned why, when he purchased one travel insurance policy,  one claim (for 
loss of money) was accepted, and the other (for loss of gadgets) was refused. As Ive said 
above, the gadget element of the policy was an optional extra cover and as our investigator 
explained, this was provided  underwritten  by a different insurance company, GLI. This 
means the losses suffered by Mr M as a result of the bag theft wont  necessarily be dealt 
with the same way.
Here, the gadget element  of the policy clearly sets out how cover  is limited where an item 
has been left unattended. This is the only part of the policy  thats relevant or needs  
considering when looking at this complaint. And its clear Mr Ms gadgets  wouldnt  be 
covered if he left them unattended  which according to the definitions  of this policy he did. I 
can see GLI, in their final response, have suggested  Mr M could go back to IC to see if the 
gadget loss would be covered under the personal  possessions part of the policy. As this 
would be an issue relating to IC, and not GLI, I make no further  comment  here.
So, to conclude, for the reasons set out above  I think its clear  the gadget  element of Mr Ms 
policy doesnt cover  the loss of his electronic items he has suffered. So, I agree GLI was 
right to decline this claim, and I wont be asking them to do anything further.
my final decision
So, for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0001659