K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains about advice given by Scottish  Widows Limited  (Scottish Widows) to take 
out pension plans. He also complains about the administration of those  plans and in 
particular the charges.  Mr F complains about  the charge applied  to one of his plans when it 
was made  paid up in 1991. Mr F says he wasnt told about  this charge until many years later.
background 
Mr F took out a number  of pension plans with Scottish Widows over a number of years. He 
received advice from Scottish  Widows  in respect of two of the plans. The others were taken 
out using the services  of an independent  financial adviser (IFA) or taken out through  his 
employer.
In February 1988  Mr F was recommended a personal pension  plan by an IFA. The plan was 
administered by Scottish Widows.
In March 1988 he received advice from Scottish Widows to transfer  from his occupational 
pension scheme  (OPS) to two personal pension plans invested  in the with-profits  fund.
Mr F was recommended  another pension plan by an IFA during the tax year April 1988 to 
April 1989.
Mr F then took out further pension plans which were  set up through his employers in 1990 
and 1995. The 1990 policy was made paid up in 1991.
In 1997 Mr F was recommended a personal  pension plan by Scottish Widows. Two of his 
existing pension plans  were amalgamated  with this plan. 
In 2004 Mr F made a complaint about  the pension plan he took out in 1997 and questioned 
when and why the two other plans had been amalgamated with this one. He also 
complained about the performance of the with-profits  fund and the fall in bonus rates. 
The business responded and explained  that the pension plans Mr F had taken  out in 1989 
and 1995 had been linked in 1995. Then in 1997 when Mr F took out a new person pension 
plan his application requested that the two linked plans be amalgamated with the 1997 plan. 
The business also said that the performance  of the with-profit plan had been affected by the 
sever falls in the financial markets between 2000 and 2003. 
Mr F took out another  pension  plan with the business in 2005  which  is not part of this 
complaint.
In 2018 Mr F complained  to Scottish  Widows  about the mis-selling of all the pension plans 
he held with Scottish Widows and the charges  on those plans. He also complained  about the 
performance of his plans.  
Scottish Widows  originally  said it did not provide advice to Mr F as the plans were  taken  out 
on a direct sales basis. It said the charges were as outlined in the terms and conditions. 
Scottish Widows  said the performance  of the pension plans had been affected by adverse  
market conditions in 2000-2003, the credit crunch in 2008 and the difficulties in the 
Eurozone. It said during  the period Mr F had invested investment returns had followed a 
generally reducing trend. 
Ref: DRN00975262Scottish Widows  explained the with-profits plans were not directly linked to market  
performance and smoothing  was used to try to prevent short term fluctuations  to the value of 
the plan. But long term fluctuations would be reflected in bonus rates.
It said pension plans  taken out by Mr F in 1988 and 2005 were unit-linked  and they had 
performed better than their sector.
Mr F referred his complaint to our service.  The business examined  its records  again and 
realised it had given  Mr F advice in March  1988 and in July 1997. But it didnt agree that the 
advice was in appropriate or unsuitable  for Mr F.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. He said that a number of the pension  plans were 
not recommended by Scottish Widows so he could only look at the administration  of those 
plans. 
The adjudicator noted the 1988 advice was given at a time when the requirements for 
businesses werent  the same as they are today. From the limited documentation  available  he 
could see that Mr F had been  provided with an illustration which  met the requirements at that 
time. He wasnt satisfied on balance that the business had failed  to advise Mr F with 
reasonable care and skill or made any negligent  misstatement  or failed to disclose any 
material information. 
The adjudicator noted that the charges were set out in the terms and conditions  of the 
pension plans. Overall  he wasnt  persuaded that Scottish Widows has administered the 
plans outside  of the terms and conditions. 
The adjudicator considered the recommendation made in 1997. He didnt feel it was 
unreasonable to recommend a personal  pension to Mr F as his employer at the time did not 
provide a pension scheme. This was noted  on the application documentation.  The 
adjudicator also thought  it made-  sense  to amalgamate the other  plans so there  was one set 
of costs instead of three.
The adjudicator considered Mr Fs point that he should have  been  recommended other plans 
with cheaper charges.  He said the representatives were tied agents which meant  they could 
only recommend policies from Scottish Widows.
However the adjudicator considered that Mr F had been caused significant  trouble and upset 
by the business because  it had told him on more than one occasion that all the plans had 
been taken out without  advice. The adjudicator  said the business should  pay Mr F 
compensation of £650. 
Mr F disagreed. Mr F said he had lost out because he felt the charges  he was paying  on 
these plans were excessive. He said he should  have been offered other plans  with lower 
charges.
Mr F also questioned why his plans were  invested  in the with-profits  fund. He said he should  
have been given other choices.
Mr F also complained about the bonuses levels on the with-profits  plans. 
Ref: DRN00975263Mr F was provided further information about  the value of his plans and the contributions 
made. He was also provided with information about the historical bonus rates  for the with-
profits fund. 
The adjudicator also explained that the with-profits fund was the only fund choice for the 
plans taken out in 1988 and 1997.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F was advised to take out two pension  plans by Scottish Widows in 1988 and 1997.   
Although he took out a number of other  pension plans the recommendations were either 
made by another business or set up by his employer. So I agree with the adjudicator that in 
relation to Scottish Widows I can only consider the advice on those  two occasions. I can also 
consider the administration of all the plans that arent occupation pension scheme plans. 
1988 transfer to personal pension plan
I consider Mr F received advice from Scottish Widows in March 1988 as he signed an 
application form in March1988 although  the transfer did not take place until May 1988.  The 
key date is when  he was given advice rather than when the money was transferred. 
At that time the responsibilities on businesses, such as Scottish Widows, were  to give advice  
with reasonable  care and skill, not to make negligent misstatements and to disclose any 
material information.
 
There is limited  documentation available from the point of sale probably because  this plan 
was taken out around 30 years ago. But I can see that Mr F had an OPS with his former 
employer which had been started  in around 1980. The documentation records he left his 
employer in 1984 He had also previously  transferred  the value of a plan with another former  
employer into this OPS  plan. 
An illustration was prepared which showed what might be achieved  with this with-profits 
plan. It gave examples  of potential returns.  It compared favourably with the benefits it was 
envisaged Mr F would receive with his OPS at his planned retirement age. The 
documentation shows the benefits from his Mr Fs OPS were revalued  to Mr Fs retirement 
age. So I am satisfied the comparison  was carried out using the relevant information.
I take into account that there was less certainty  as to how much Mr F would eventually  
receive with the personal pension plan recommended by the business as compared with his 
OPS. But I note the personal  pension plan did have a guaranteed minimum pension,  a 
guaranteed cash  amount and a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) which I consider were useful 
benefits.
Ref: DRN00975264Mr F was in his 30s when he received this advice so I think he had a reasonable amount  of 
time to try and achieve a favourable return with this plan.  I note this wasnt  his only pension  
plan as he had already  taken out another plan with Scottish Widows through an independent 
financial adviser. I also note the transfer  related to a few years of contributions rather  than a 
long period of service.  (Although I note Mr F had also transferred the value  of a plan with a 
previous employer into his OPS).  With- profits funds were  generally considered  at that time 
to be low risk. So I m not persuaded this with-profits pension plan was inappropriate for 
Mr F. 
I consider based  on what was known at the time of the recommendation, that there  was a 
reasonable prospect that Mr F would be better  off in retirement with the plan recommended.  
I appreciate that Mr F is disappointed with the value of his pension plan as it has not 
performed as well as had been hoped.  .But overall Im not persuaded on balance that the 
business failed  to act with reasonable care and skill in giving Mr F this advice  or that it made 
any negligent misstatements to Mr F or failed to give him material  information. 
Mr F has complained about the charges in relation to this plan. This is a with-profits  plan and 
the charges-are taken  out of the with profits fund as a whole rather  than individually from 
each plan holder.  
Unfortunately there is limited documentation from the point of sale.  But I can see that 
Scottish Widows  wrote  to Mr F in May 1988 following his application and referred him to the 
descriptive  booklet  which he had received  previously. So I think it is likely that Mr F would 
have been provided with information about  the with-profits fund and the charges involved. 
1997 pension  plan
In 1997 Mr F received  advice to start a personal pension  plan and amalgamate  contributions  
held in two pension plans taken out in 1989 and 1995 through  former employers.  It was 
noted on the application form for the 1997  plan that Mr Fs employer  at the time didnt have a 
pension scheme. So I don think it was unsuitable advice to start a personal pension  plan. 
Scottish Widows  has confirmed  that the plans taken out in 1989 and 1995 were linked in 
1995. I note Mr F was provided with statements of his contributions over the years and those 
statements made reference to the fact these plans were  linked  up. So I think  Mr F was made 
aware of this. The amalgamation of these policies was also confirmed to Mr F when  he 
complained to Scottish Widows in 2004.
The pension plans  were  all pension builder  products which  had the same core elements. So 
I agree  with the adjudicator that it made sense to amalgamate them.  
Scottish Widows  has confirmed  that these products were designed to be invested in the 
unitised with-profits fund and there  was no other  fund choice. Mr F was employed  and 
wanted to make a regular  contribution to a pension. I m not persuaded that this with-profits 
plan was unsuitable for Mr F as with-profits funds were generally considered to be low risk at 
that time.  
Ref: DRN00975265Mr F has complained he was not offered cheaper  alternatives with lower charges by the 
business. I note that a buyers guide was provided by the business to Mr F following an 
enquiry by him in 1993. That guide made  it clear  that unless the advice was independent  (in 
other words it was given  by an independent financial adviser)  then the adviser represented 
the Scottish  Widows group. So they could only recommend  a product which  would be picked 
from the range of products  offered  by that group. I think it was clear  that if Mr F wanted a 
wider range  of products  to choose  from he would have to either seek  independent advice or 
shop around by looking at other providers.
Mr F has also complained about  the charges on this plan. The charges  on this plan were  set 
out in in the terms and conditions provided to Mr F. The statement of contributions provided 
to Mr F for the plan showed that the allocation of premiums was 97.5%. 
I can also see that in 2000 the business wrote  to Mr F following a request  by him for 
information. It explained how much Mr F was paying in premiums  for the plan and said the 
premiums are applied  to the policy  with the usual allocation rate of 97.5%.
 I note the terms and conditions for the pension  builder plan explained the allocation 
percentage was the percentage of the premium that the business used to buy with- profits 
benefits. So the rest of the premium  would be used to meet  the charges of the plan.
Overall I am not persuaded on balance that the business failed to inform  Mr F about the 
charges or mis-led him about the charges that applied.
Paid up pension  plan
Mr F has questioned why he was charged  around £900 when one of his pension plans was 
made paid up in 1991. He says the charge  is unfair and complains he wasnt  notified of this 
charge until 2000;  some  9 years later. 
This pension  plan was taken  out in 1990 and it was made paid up as Mr F left his 
employment and premiums stopped being  paid.
Scottish Widows  records  show that Mr F contacted the business  in February 1992 and 
asked for a leaving service quote which was issued by the business in March 1992. Scottish 
Widows says if nothing is received from the plan holder in response to a leaving service 
pack then the plan would become paid up.
There is also a letter from Scottish  Widows  to Mr F in February 1992 which  explained that 
Mr F would not be eligible  to contribute to the contract until he recommenced  employment.  It 
also said he could have  a premium holiday for up to 2 years.  
The terms and conditions  of the policy allowed Scottish Widows to reduce the value  of 
Mr Fs plan by in effect imposing a charge if no premium was paid for two years.  The terms 
and conditions said: 
Ref: DRN00975266PAIDUP POLICY
If for any reason other than entry on pension no retirement premium has been paid fora 
period of 2 years, the number of units allocated to the policy will be reduced by such  amount 
and in such manner  as the Society  shall decide.  Further retirement premiums will be 
accepted by the Society only on such terms as the Society may decide.
I can see there is a statement of contributions from 1996 for Mr Fs plan. It says 
 The policy  had been paid up. A reduction has therefore been made to the current  fund 
value.
So I think it is likely that Mr F would have  been  put on notice about this charge or reduction  
in value before 2000. 
Mr F complained about this charge  in 2001.  Scottish Widows issued a final response letter. It 
said the bulk of charges  on this plan were incurred  at the beginning of the contract and it 
would aim to recoup those over the term of the plan. But if the plan was stopped early then it 
would have to take account of the expenses incurred  up to that point. 
I also note that in Scottish Widows  response  to Mr Fs 2004  complaint the business  
explained it couldnt transfer the contributions from this plan to the pension  plan he had 
taken out in 1995. Because,  by that time the 1990 plan had been paid up for more 3 years. 
I also take into account that the business has given  an explanation as to how this charge  
was calculated. So I dont  consider it has acted  outside of the terms and conditions in 
applying the charge. 
Even if Scottish Widows has notified  Mr F of the paid up charge earlier I dont think I can 
conclude on balance that Mr F would have acted  differently. Scottish Widows had already 
explained to him that he would need to recommence employment to contribute  and he could 
only have a payment  holiday of up to two years. In order to avoid this reduction in value he 
would have had to restart paying  premiums before the end of the two years  so he would 
have had to pay more in to the plan. 
Charges and administration for remaining (non-advised) pension  plans 
I am satisfied that Scottish Widows was entitled  to impose charges under  the terms and 
conditions of the pension plans. Where  Mr F received independent  advice it was the 
responsibility of that independent financial adviser to explain the charges that applied to his 
plan and how they operated. 
I have not seen anything to suggest  that Scottish Widows have acted outside the terms and 
conditions in the administration of these  pension plans.  
Ref: DRN00975267Performance of with profits plans 
Mr F has complained about the performance of his with-profits plans and the level of 
bonuses. I appreciate that Mr F is disappointed  with the bonuses he has received. 
Unfortunately a with-profits fund is not immune from economic factors and will be affected  by 
investment conditions. The business  has set out some of the factors that have had an impact 
on the performance of the fund. Those factors have had an effect on bonus rates over the 
longer term. 
With-profits providers, such as Scottish Widows,  have quite a bit of discretion about how 
they run their with-profits fund and the bonuses rates  they apply. Having said that, Scottish 
Widows cant  operate  in an arbitrary manner  and is accountable to the industry regulator as 
to it how it manages its with-profits funds. Scottish Widows does have to manage  its with-
profits fund in line with rules and guidance  set out by the regulator. 
Scottish Widows  publishes  its Principles  and Practices  of Financial Management document 
that sets out how it manages its with-profits funds. 
Im not aware the regulator  has found any problems or raised  any concerns about how 
Scottish Widows  has managed its with-profits fund. So although I do understand Mr Fs 
concerns, Ive not seen enough evidence to show that its done anything  wrong  in the way it 
has applied  bonuses to Mr Fs plan.
Trouble and upset  
I agree  with the adjudicator that Mr F was caused  trouble and upset  by the business failing 
to acknowledge  it had recommended two of his pension plans until late on in the complaints 
process. Scottish Widows repeatedly told Mr F that it hadnt given him any advice.  I think  
this caused Mr F a great deal of frustration over a number of months. As the adjudicator  said 
in his view Mr F has felt he was being  made to question his own recollections of whether he 
received advice. So I think the £650 suggested by the adjudicator for the trouble  and upset 
caused is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part against Scottish Widows Limited in 
respect of the trouble and upset caused to him during the complaints process. Scottish 
Widows should pay Mr F £650 in compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0097526