K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with how their life and critical illness  insurance policies were  
reviewed by Scottish Widows, which has since been taken over by Lloyds Bank  PLC. For 
ease, Ill only refer to Lloyds in my decision.  
background
Mr and Mrs M took out two individual  life and critical illness policies with Lloyds in 2009. 
These were  level term policies for 22 years  covering each person for £142,450.
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with how Lloyds reviewed their policies. Mr M has explained that 
in November 2014, they were invited to go into branch for a review. He recalls  that he went  
alone to the meeting that lasted over an hour, but he said Lloyds didnt check whether the 
policies had been set up properly. In particular: 
Lloyds didnt realise the policies didnt cover the outstanding mortgage  balance, 
which was £145,547.97.
Lloyds didnt ask Mr M whether he took part in any hazardous sports  and hes a 
qualified scuba instructor. 
Lloyds didnt review  whether  Mr and Mrs M shouldve  had a joint policy rather  than 
their existing  single policies. 
Mrs M couldnt  go to the meeting  so Lloyds never reviewed her policy. 
Lloyds couldnt  find any records  to show that the policies were reviewed in 2014. Its said 
that Mr and Mrs M were sent letters  in November 2014, but they only explained that the 
premiums had been reviewed  and so it wasnt to review their policies  generally.  It added 
that if there  had been problems with the policies, it wouldve expected  Mr and Mrs M to 
recognise that at the time. 
Mr and Mrs M brought the complaint to our service,  and on 28 December 2018, I sent a 
provisional decision. In summary, I explained: 
My decision wouldnt  consider the points Mr and Mrs M raised  about  the sale of these 
life and critical illness policies or the additional  premium protection  policy,  as these 
have been the subject  of separate complaints with our service.  
I noted that the policies terms and conditions  and the annual  statements that were 
sent to Mr and Mrs M didnt show that Lloyds had a general  obligation  to review 
them. 
Nevertheless, I considered Mr Ms recollection  that a review took place in 2014. 
Neither Lloyds nor Mr and Mrs M were  able to provide documentary evidence to 
support this. And I wasnt  persuaded  by Mr Ms recollection alone, given the time that 
had passed and the details he could recall, that the meeting took place as alleged or 
at all. So overall, I wasnt satisfied that Lloyds did something wrong  here. 
Lloyds didnt have  anything further to add. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with my findings  in 
summary: 
I should trust that a meeting took place,  particularly given that a Lloyds branch 
manager confirmed  that meetings about these insurance policies took place in 2014.  
Mr M was told it was a five year review  for their life and critical illness  policies, but it 
was actually to sell additional products. The meeting started with questions  about 
Ref: DRN04378722their health,  smoking  and alcohol consumption,  alongside whether their height and 
weight had changed. He now understands this was a selling  tactic  and used to gather 
personal health information, as that would impact  their life insurance. 
Amendments were  made to the policies  term and conditions,  but Lloyds havent 
made them aware of this. 
They questioned  why Ive not looked  at the sale of the policy.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But Ive not changed my mind about  the 
outcome of this complaint. 
Ive considered what Mr Ms current branch manager told him  that meetings about these 
insurance policies  took place in 2014.  Im mindful that Mr M previously said the manager 
didnt work  in branch back then, and so he instead relied on a colleagues  recollection  that 
there were advisers around at that time. 
To be clear, I dont dispute that advisers  were there, or indeed, the likelihood  that they 
carried out some kind of reviews. But that doesnt  provide  me with the weight of evidence I 
would need to conclude that a specific meeting took place with Mr M in November 2014  to 
review their life and critical illness policies. And moreover, that Lloyds acted unfairly in the 
way they did this. Its simply too far a leap to make. 
Ive also considered the details Mr M has recalled about the meeting. Hes said he was 
asked questions about their health and lifestyle, as that impacts the life insurance, as well as 
being asked about further products.  Im conscious  that these sorts of questions  could 
commonly be asked in a range of meetings about  financial services.  So they dont paint the 
detailed picture  that I would need to be persuaded that Lloyds  acted unfairly. 
Overall, having reviewed all the available evidence  and having carefully thought about the 
strength of Mr Ms recollection, Im not persuaded that Lloyds did anything wrong here.  
Mr and Mrs M also say that amendments were made to their policies, but they werent told 
about them. I cant see they raised  this point when they first brought this complaint about a 
review to us. But in any event, given that they say amendments  were made to make the 
policies clearer, it would  be difficult to say this caused them  a loss. To be clear, I wouldnt 
ask for compensation to be paid just because something had gone wrong. Instead, Id need 
to also see that what  went wrong reasonably caused  someone more than a minor 
inconvenience and upset. 
Mr and Mrs M also question why Ive not looked  at the sale of these  policies. Thats because 
its already been  looked  at separately by our service, where it was found  that the complaint 
was made  too late, given our statutory  time limits.  So to answer  their point, its not because  I 
consider them mis-sold   but simply because our service has already  said weve no power to 
look into this.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Ref: DRN04378723Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0437872