K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1999 to
protect a loan. Mr T says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr T aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before
adding it to his loan. There is limited information available from the time this policy  was sold
and I cant know for certain what was discussed when Mr T applied  for his loan and PPI.
But from what I know about how Lloyds  sold this type of policy at the time and the example 
application form Lloyds  sent us I think its most likely that Lloyds made it clear Mr T didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr T, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr T 
has told us he was entitled to sick pay when he applied for the PPI, had a different insurance 
policy, and could have  relied on support from family members if he was unable to make his 
repayments. But the PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mr Ts sick pay, and for longer. It 
would also have paid out in addition  to any other  insurance Mr T had in place. And although 
Mr Ts family  would have wanted  to offer support, their ability to would have been dependent  
on their circumstances  at the time which could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ts circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected  by any of
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover,  and I think Lloyds  recommendation to take the policy was reasonable.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2021.
Terry Woodham 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0981704