K820x#14complaint
Mr G1 and Mr G2, as executors to the estate of Mrs G, complain that National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest) opened a trust account  instead  of one in Mrs Gs name. They  also 
complain the bank provided  information about  the account to a third party.
background
In 2000, Mrs G completed an Enduring Power of Attorney (POA), which appointed four 
individuals (Mr G1, Mr G2, Mrs H and Ms G) as her attorneys with power to act jointly  and 
severally. And in 2002, Mrs G completed a trust deed appointing Mr G1, Mr G2, Mrs O and 
Mrs W as the trustees.
In 2013, Mr G1 and Mr G2 applied to open  a current account  with NatWest. Mr G1 says they 
wanted to open an account  in Mrs Gs name  with him and Mr G2 acting as attorneys to this 
account. The purpose of the account  was to receive rental income  from the trust property to 
which Mrs G was entitled. Mr G1 says that instead of opening an account in Mrs Gs name, 
as they asked it to do, NatWest wrongly opened a trust bank account.
In 2015, NatWest was contacted by Mrs W, one of the trustees.  She complained that the 
bank was wrong to open the trust account without  the involvement  of the other  two trustees  
 her and Mrs O. NatWest responded to Mrs W and accepted that the trust account  hadnt 
been opened properly as all trustees should  have been involved. It asked for a new trust 
mandate to be completed and for Ms W and Mrs O to provide identification so they could be 
added to the account. Mrs W didnt contact it again after this time.
In October  2015 Mrs O was added  to the account as a trustee. She wrote  to NatWest in July 
2016 to say that the account  had been opened  originally  by just two of the trustees  and 
without the agreement of the remaining two trustees. She pointed  out that the trust requires 
agreement of all the trustees and asked the bank to make sure it had authority of all trustees 
for any withdrawal from the account.  At that time, the fourth trustee hadnt been added  to the 
account. NatWest wrote  to Mr G1 and asked him to arrange for the fourth  trustee to 
complete the mandate and provide identification.
In 2018, Mr G1 complained to NatWest that it had opened the wrong account and that it 
disclosed information about the account  to a third party who wasnt named on the account. 
He says that this has led to legal action and significant legal fees.
NatWest said that it opened  the trust account  because the income,  which was to be paid into 
the account, came from property owned  by the trust. But it accepted it shouldnt have 
opened a trust account with only two of the trustees  as signatories. It should have required 
the involvement of all four trustees.
The adjudicator didnt think this complaint should  be upheld. She said that it was clear that 
the account opening form and mandate signed  by Mr G1 and Mr G2 were for a trust account 
and not an account in the late Mrs Gs sole name.  And the trustees should complain together 
if they considered  the bank had made a mistake by opening the account with the authority of 
only two of the four trustees.
Mr G1 and Mr G2 disagreed saying, in summary, they never  considered the account to be a 
trust account. It was their clear intention, as attorneys,  that the account should be an 
account for the use of the attorneys in connection with (the late) Mrs Gs affairs.  There 
Ref: DRN00639412wasnt a legal requirement for the income  to be paid to the trust first and NatWest  should 
have contacted the parties named on the account  (Mr G1 and Mr G2) when Mrs W raised 
her complaint in 2015.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr G1 and Mr G2 and NatWest  when  
they asked to open an account so I have based  I have based  my decision  on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Mr G1 and Mr G2 have  raised a number  of issues but it is for me to decide what I consider to 
be the relevant  issues, in order  to resolve the complaint in line with my statutory duties. So, 
while I have considered all that they have said, I dont feel I necessarily need  to comment  
individually on all of the issues  they have raised and I have focussed on those  that I consider 
to be directly relevant  to NatWests actions.
Mr G1 and Mr G2 have  said that they never  intended the account to be a trust account. They  
wanted to open an account  for (the late) Mrs G, on which  they would both act under a power  
of attorney.  They didnt  want  a trust account to be opened because of the affect it would 
have on how rental income  from the trust property would be treated for taxation purposes.  
And they say NatWest  didnt make it clear  that the account it was opening was a trust 
account.
I find that Mr G1 and Mr G2 applied to open the current account  with NatWest in early 
August 2013.  I appreciate that they now say that they never  intended to open a trust account  
but an account in the sole name  of their (late) mother, but this isnt what  happened.
I have reviewed the account  opening  form, which they both signed and I have seen a letter  
from NatWest  which  was sent to Mr G1 to confirm that the new account had been opened. 
Although the letter  isnt dated the account  details (sort code and account number) relate to 
the account opening form, which Mr G1 and Mr G2 completed in August 2013. The letter  is 
headed with the name  of their late mothers family trust and asks Mr G1 to arrange  to 
complete a trust account  mandate,  which was enclosed  with the letter.
Im satisfied that Mr G1 and Mr G2 completed  the bank mandate for a trust account.  In 
section 1 they named the trust and the account number and sorting  code they gave matched 
the details on the account opening form. In the section that provides the bank with the 
signing rules Mr G1 and Mr G2 have selected  the option which allows  the bank to act on the 
instructions for any one to sign. And in section 5, headed Trustees  signatures, both Mr G1 
and Mr G2 have signed the mandate  each under the heading Trustee  signature. Finally,
Mr G1 has signed the mandate to certify that all the trustee signatures are genuine, the 
information is correct  and he has provided a contact telephone number. They returned the 
mandate to the bank. Although Mr G1 didnt date the mandate NatWests notes, made in 
early September 2013, say that it was happy to accept the trust mandate even though the 
date was missing from section 6 of it.
Ref: DRN00639413I have also seen a letter from the family trusts  solicitor dated 7 August 2013.  The solicitor 
sent a copy of the settlement (trust)  deed to Mr G1 to use in connection with the banking  
arrangements.
Mr G1 and Mr G2 completed another trust mandate in 2015. Again it was clearly  marked as 
being for the family trust,  with the same account number and sort code. This time they 
marked the mandate for the bank to act on the instructions of all the trustees  and Mrs O was 
added to the mandate. Mr G1 signed the mandate certification,  as before, and dated the 
form 1 June 2015. They also completed and signed a separate  form to add Mrs O to the 
account, on which they gave the account name as their mothers  family trust. After  satisfying  
NatWests identity checks, Mrs O was added as a trustee on the bank account in October  
2015. Mr G1, Mr G2 and Mrs O provided NatWest with a copy of the trust deed and it 
certified it as a true copy on 5 October 2015.
In July 2016 Mrs O asked NatWest to arrange  to add the fourth trustee, Mrs W, to the 
account. NatWest wrote  to Mr G1 to ask him to arrange this and said that, at that time,  it 
would act on the signatures  of the three trustees together.  Mrs W has yet to complete the 
banks paperwork so she can also be added.
Mr G1 and Mr G2 have  suggested that if the account was a trust bank account then all the 
documentation (including cheque books, paying in books and statements) would simply state 
the family  trust name, rather  like a limited  company  bank account is just in the name of a 
limited company and doesnt include directors names. They  say the account NatWest 
opened had the names  of Mr G1 and Mr G2 in its title, which shows that it wasnt a trust 
account but an account for them as attorneys. But I consider that if the account had been 
opened for (the late) Mrs G it would have  been  just in her name  as she would be the 
beneficial owner  of the account. Power of Attorney(s) arent normally  named on the 
account. Whereas trust accounts  do normally name the trustees, with the account often be 
designated Trustee  1 and Trustee  2 as trustees for the XYZ Trust. Shortly  after the account 
was opened, NatWest wrote to say that initially the cheque book would be in the joint names 
of Mr G1 and Mr G2 and that it had ordered a cheque book in the name  of the family trust, 
which would follow.
Mr G1 and Mr G2 have  said that the bank account wasnt intended to be a trust account and 
they understood it to be an attorney account.  I find that all the documents  that they 
completed, in both 2013 and 2015, were quite clearly headed  with the full name of the family 
trust. They say they just signed the forms sent to them by NatWest.  But it was their 
responsibility to read the documents they were signing. And had they done so, I think it 
would have been very clear that by signing the forms, they were  authorising  NatWest to 
open a trust account.
In the circumstances, I consider they knew, or ought reasonably  to have known,  that the 
account was opened as a trust account.  If it wasnt their intention  then they should  have 
raised the matter  far sooner than they have. I cant reasonably conclude that NatWest made 
any mistake by opening the account as a trust account.
For the avoidance of doubt my consideration of this matter is limited to Mr G1 and Mr G2s 
complaint about  whether NatWest opened  the correct account. The other issues which  they 
has raised, relating  specifically to the trust account,  may be subject of a separate complaint  
but it would  not be appropriate  for me to comment on them here because they should be 
brought as a complaint  by all the trustees.
Ref: DRN00639414my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G1 and Mr G2, 
as the executors of the estate of Mrs G, to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0063941