K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC lent him money irresponsibly.
background
Mr C had a bank account with Lloyds Bank PLC and an overdraft of about £3,000. He also 
had a credit  card with Lloyds, the balance of which had been close  to its limit since  March 
2017 for which he was making the minimum payments.  He says that hed also just applied 
for a credit card with a £2,500 limit.
In October  2017, he took out an unsecured loan with them  for £8,500 online. The loan 
repayments were £170 per month  over 6 years. 
But, a month  later,  Lloyds overdraft charges went up and Mr C hadnt budgeted for this 
increase, so he found it difficult  to make the loan re-payments.
Mr C said that he wasnt notified that the overdraft charges were going up; and if hed known 
about the increase, he wouldnt have taken out the unsecured  loan.  He  said that Lloyds 
didnt carry out proper checks to see whether he could afford the loan payments, and he 
wasnt given any advice.
In December 2017, Mr C complained to Lloyds about the overdraft charges being too high 
and he was having trouble making repayments.  Mr C also lost his second job in December 
2017. The complaint about the overdraft charges was dealt with separately  by Lloyds and by 
this service, but it is mentioned here because Mr C says it is the overdraft charges that had 
an impact on his ability to budget  for the loan repayments. 
He also complained about the loan that he couldnt afford to repay. He said if Lloyds  had 
carried out proper  checks, they would have seen that he had other financial commitments, 
and they had been irresponsible in lending him the money.  Lloyds didnt  agree  and didnt 
uphold his complaint.  They said they wrote to Mr C notifying him of the overdraft  charges  in 
July 2017, and their notes  show  this was followed by a notification sent via online banking  in 
August which  said that the fee structure was changing in November,  and their records  show  
the message had been opened and read.  They said he would have had this information prior 
to making his loan application.  Lloyds also said that an assessment would have been 
carried out before they agreed  to the lending. 
Mr C said all Lloyds  had asked for was his income,  expenditure and dependants.  He sent 
our investigator a video  demonstration of the online  application  to show the questions  he 
was asked and how quickly the loan was approved,  so he says Lloyds couldnt have carried  
out proper affordability  checks  when they approved the loan. Mr C said the application was 
easy and approved quickly. 
Our investigator asked  Mr C to complete a standard income and expenditure form to show  
his financial position  as it would have been in 2017.  Mr  C also provided a credit  report  dated  
January 2019  and his Lloyds bank statements for the six-month period prior to the loan.
The income and expenditure form showed  that after paying all his usual outgoings, Mr C had 
a surplus, but he says he couldnt have afforded the repayments of £170 per month.
Ref: DRN07879522The credit report dated January  2019 shows Mr Cs credit score  as being poor as at that 
date. It shows that around the time the loan was taken out, Mr C had other loans and 
accounts and the bank  statements show that money was being moved between  different 
bank accounts.  
Lloyds didnt uphold  the complaint because they said that the loan application was approved 
on the information Mr C provided and in line with their lending criteria.  He had told them that 
his annual income was £45,000  and his outgoings  were £750.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that Mr C had benefitted  from the loan 
 it had paid off an overdraft and other debts which would have incurred a higher rate of 
interest than the Lloyds  loan.
He said the information Lloyds had received  about Mr Cs income  and outgoings and other 
major commitments,  could only have come from Mr C. Our investigator looked  at the income  
and expenditure  form Mr C had completed. He said Mr C would have had a surplus at the 
end of the month and have been  able to make the loan repayments. He also looked at the 
credit report  and said although there was some negative information, most of it was added 
after the loan application was made, so he didnt think  Lloyds did anything wrong. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said that he hadnt been  able to complete the income and expenditure 
form accurately because it was too hard to remember his income  and outgoings for that 
period, so he completed the form with his current repayment plans. He didnt think  that in it 
was fair he was being asked for information for his income and expenditure from 2017.
Whilst Mr C agreed  that the loan helped to reduce his debts, he said the difference to him 
was minimal and taking  the loan didnt work out as he had expected.  But it did help him 
reduce his dependence on payday loans. 
Mr C told our investigator that he used some  of the money to pay off an overdraft, and some  
to help reduce  his balance on payday loans and a credit card.
He says that Lloyds should have carried out checks into his financial background which 
would have shown  his large debts  which had not decreased.   He says, because  of all of this, 
Lloyds were irresponsible in lending him the money.
The complaint regarding the overdraft  charges  has been concluded,  as Mr C came  to an 
agreement with Lloyds.  As Mr C doesnt  accept our investigators findings on the unsecured  
loan, the complaint has come to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint, and Ill explain why.
Mr C has explained that he took out the loan to help pay some of his ongoing debt. He told 
our investigator that the loan was used  to pay off an overdraft and some of the money was 
used to reduce  the balance on his payday  loans and a credit card. So, although Mr C says 
that taking out the loan didnt quite work out the way he wanted,  because his larger debts 
hadnt decreased,  he did get some benefit from the loan. It isnt inherently wrong to lend 
Ref: DRN07879523money for debt consolidation  purposes, so the fact Mr C had existing debt isnt a reason to 
say the bank shouldnt have lent to him.
I dont think its fair to say that Lloyds could be responsible for what  happened after he took 
the loan. It seems clear  that he hadnt taken  notice of the notification he received about the 
increased overdraft charges and Lloyds couldnt  predict that he would lose his second job in 
December 2017,  which made his situation worse. 
But Ive also set out below my findings  on the loan application process and affordability  
because Mr C says the application was too easy and Lloyds couldnt  have completed all the 
checks they are obliged to carry out.
Loan application process
Lloyds have said that they didnt  act irresponsibly when making the loan because  the loan 
was approved on the information Mr C gave them and in line with their lending criteria.  Mr C 
says that Lloyds didnt ask for anything other than his income, expenditure and information  
about his dependants.   Lloyds have provided me with details of some of the information  they 
relied on and I think its fair to say that they relied  on the information Mr C provided.
Its important to note the Financial Conduct Authority guidance in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook, (CONC) rules that were applicable  at the time the loan was made.
CONC 5.2.3G
The extent  and scope  of the creditworthiness  assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R  (1), in a given case,  should be dependent  upon and 
proportionate to factors which may include one or more of the following:
(1)  the type of credit;
(2)  the amount  of the credit;
(3)  the cost of the credit;
(4)  the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking  the credit;
(5)  the customer's credit history,  including any indications that the customer  is 
experiencing or has experienced  financial difficulties;
(6)  the customer's existing financial commitments  including any repayments due in 
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated  mortgage 
contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications, water  
and other  major outgoings known to the firm;
(7)  any future financial commitments of the customer;
(8)  any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably  expected to 
have a significant financial adverse impact on the customer;
(9)  the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands the 
customer has some form of mental  capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this to 
be so because the customer displays indications of some  form of mental capacity 
limitation (see CONC 2.10).
But, CONC 5.2.4G also says 
Ref: DRN07879524(1) To consider all of the factors set out in CONC 5.2.3 G in all cases is likely to be 
disproportionate.
(2)  A firm should consider what is appropriate  in any particular circumstances 
dependent on, for example, the type and amount of the credit being  sought and the 
potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit  not being sustainable directly relates 
to the amount of credit granted  and the total charge  for credit relative to 
the customer's financial situation.
(3)  A firm should consider the types  and sources of information to use in its 
creditworthiness assessment and assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1), which  
may, depending on the circumstances,  include some or all of the following:
   (a) its record of previous dealings;
   (b) evidence of income;
   (c) evidence of expenditure;
  (d) a credit score;
   (e)  a credit  reference agency report; and
   (f) information provided by the customer.
Im satisfied that Lloyds  took reasonable steps and acted  proportionately and in line with the 
rules and guidance when assessing Mr Cs ability to meet repayments.  I say this because  
the bank took into account their existing dealings with him, along  with the information he 
provided on his online  application. 
Ive seen the video of the online application that Mr C sent to us. Mr C told our investigator 
that the questions he was asked when making  the demonstration video were the same that 
he was asked when  he made the initial application. Im sure this is the case, but Ive seen 
that there  were other tabs to press saying check what  to include and not to include. These 
tabs appear at both stages, firstly where  the income is asked for and secondly, at the 
outgoings stage  too.
I know this because Mr C demonstrates  this to us at the income  stage of the process, but I 
cant say what extra details are required at the outgoing stage because Mr Cs 
demonstration doesnt press this tab. So, either Mr C didnt press  this at the time he made  
his application,  in which case he might have known  what other  information  Lloyds needed  
from him, besides his rent and dependent children. Or he just didnt  press  it in his 
demonstration, so I cant say whether Mr C would have  been asked for more information 
about his other outgoings.
Either way, when I look at the information  in Lloyds notes, the answer  to income  salary  is 
£45,000, and the answer  to monthly mortgage  rent is £750. The answer to total other  
commitments monthly is £0  so Im satisfied that Lloyds  would have  only got his information 
from Mr C at the time the application was completed.  Its unclear to me why Mr C would give 
such a response if he knew his position to be significantly  different. I consider it reasonable 
for Mr C to provide details  about  his other liabilities when asked, to enable  the bank to make 
an informed decision on his creditworthiness.
Affordability 
Mr C says that if Lloyds had done a full check on his credit history, they would  have seen his 
other liabilities and that he couldnt afford the monthly payments. Ive looked  at the 
information Mr C has provided  our investigator. Ive seen the completed  income  and 
Ref: DRN07879525expenditure form and it didnt  help me very much because Mr C provided  information from 
2019. 
Ive also looked  at the credit report and bank statements provided by Mr C, and I can see 
that the report had some  negative information, but this was mostly  after the loan application 
was made.  Ive also noted that Mr C lost his second  job at the end of 2017  which  would have 
had an impact on his ability to afford the loan repayments. I must decide  whether Lloyds  
would have had all the information about Mr Cs situation at the time the loan application was 
approved or could  have reasonably obtained it.
Ive looked at what the Financial Conduct  Authority says in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC), which sets out rules and guidance  relating to affordability that were applicable at 
the time the loan was made.
CONC 5.2.1 R 2 says 
A firm carrying  out the assessment required in (1) must consider:
(a)  the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customer's financial situation, taking into account the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  is 
to be made;  and
(b)  the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of 
the regulated  credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
And the guidance  in CONC 5.3.1 G 6
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means  the repayments under the regulated 
credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a)  without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments;
(b)  over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
From the evidence that Ive seen, Im satisfied that Lloyds considered the information that 
they were aware  of at the time they agreed  the loan. They relied  on the information that Mr C 
had provided to them, and I havent seen any evidence to suggest  that Lloyds thought he 
couldnt make the repayments. I dont think it is fair or reasonable to say that Lloyds would 
have known that Mr C was going to lose his second  job in December.
I hear what Mr C is saying  that he already had a credit card which  he was making a 
minimum payment on since March 2017,  but as Ive already noted,  he was intending to 
borrow the money to restructure his existing debt.  In such circumstances, I dont consider 
Lloyds should  have refused to lend to Mr C just because he was making the minimum 
payments. 
Ref: DRN07879526Mr Cs application for a credit card and an overdraft doesnt necessarily mean that Lloyds 
would assume he was struggling  to make payments. He admits that he was trying to 
restructure his existing debt and the loan helped to pay some of that debt. I say this because 
I cant see any significant indicators from the evidence that Ive received that Mr C was 
struggling until after the loan had started  and he lost his second job. Ive seen the bank 
statements that Mr C has provided in the six months prior to taking out the loan, but all that 
the statements  tell me is that money is being moved between different accounts. It isnt 
obvious that he was struggling, so I dont think its fair to say Lloyds would have  been  aware  
of this.
Lloyds were obliged  to inform Mr C that their charges would be increasing, and I can see 
that they did this, by letter in July 2017  and via online banking in August. Ive seen a sample 
letter that they would have sent out saying  Overdraft Fees  are changing  so could cost you 
more.  Im satisfied that Mr C received  this letter and read the message, so Lloyds have 
discharged their obligation  to inform Mr C of the increase in overdraft charges, which  would 
have had an impact on his loan repayments.   
I dont dispute  that if Mr C was struggling financially and had provided a true picture of his 
financial position, the loan may not have been approved. But for all the reasons above,  I 
cant say Lloyds acted  unfairly when Mr C took out the loan. His circumstances changed 
after he took out the loan.  
my final decision
I know Mr C will be disappointed with my decision but Im not going  to ask Lloyds Bank PLC 
to do anything, because I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Sejal Karia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0787952