K821x#15complaint
Mrs F says Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey National) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a loan in 2002. Abbey 
recommended the PPI to Mrs F at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Abbey disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Having carefully thought  about everything, Im upholding Mrs Fs complaint. Abbey 
recommended the policy  to Mrs F. So it needed to make sure that it correctly assessed her 
needs and recommended  a policy that was right for her. 
Abbey recommended  a policy which included accident and sickness cover. And the terms 
and conditions of the policy meant that Mrs F wasnt able to make a claim for any condition 
shed been diagnosed with or which she received treatment or advice for, in the 12 months  
before the policy started and which recurred within 12 months of the policy starting.  So 
Abbeys adviser  needed to factor this into account  when  making  its recommendation.
Mrs F had an existing  condition, which she received  continuous treatment for, at the time 
Abbey recommended  that she take the PPI. And her condition was one that commonly  led to 
other complications for many who had it. So Mrs Fs existing condition is likely to have 
limited her ability to make  a successful  claim on the accident and sickness  benefit. As this is 
the case, I think that it was unfair  for Abbeys adviser to have recommended this unsuitable 
policy to Mrs F in these circumstances. 
As I dont think that Mrs F wouldve taken  the policy if Abbey hadnt made an unsuitable 
recommendation to her, I think that shes lost out because of what Abbey did wrong.  So I 
think that Abbey should put things  right.       
  
fair compensation
Abbey should  put Mrs F in the financial position shed be in now if she had taken out the loan 
without the PPI. So Abbey should:
-Refund Mrs F all the premiums she paid for the PPI policy;  and
-Pay Mrs F interest at 8% per year simple on each premium from the date it was paid 
to the date compensation is paid.
Ref: DRN06199052-If Mrs F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Abbey can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Abbey to take off tax from this interest. A&L must give 
Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Fs complaint. Santander UK Plc 
(trading as Abbey National) should  pay Mrs F compensation  in line with the instructions set 
out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0619905