K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mrs and Mr H payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place about  22 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why:
Mr and Mrs H have said there was no mention of PPI and they werent  aware it had been 
added. However,  theyve not been able to present evidence  to support their claim, which  
isnt surprising so many years later. They acknowledge that documents  would  have been  
sent to them,  and I think its likely the PPI would  have been mentioned in the documents 
at the time, and that it would have  been presented as a choice. And, overall, I dont  have 
strong evidence to show that Lloyds Bank  didnt  make  clear the PPI was optional;  or that 
it didnt ensure that Mrs and Mr H freely  chose to take it. Without stronger evidence, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to say that Lloyds Bank acted wrongly in that way.
Lloyds Bank says it recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr H. But it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable,  based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances  at the time.  Being unable 
to pay a mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Mrs and Mr H received any employer sick pay, and potentially for 
longer. It would have  paid unemployment  benefits in addition  to any redundancy pay. 
And it would  have put off the time when they would need to fall back  on any savings  or 
other means they may have had for paying  the mortgage. This all would have put 
Mrs and Mr H in a more  secure position, if theyd eventually  lost income due to long term 
sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been  told anything to suggest they couldnt 
afford the PPI when  they took it out. So I think the PPI would have been potentially 
useful. 
Ref: DRN00749192Its hard to know how well Lloyds Bank  explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. But 
I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mrs and Mr H took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds Bank didnt clearly point out the main  things  the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mrs and Mr H would have been  affected by any of these. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 August 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0074919