K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  the way Barclays  Bank UK PLC has dealt with their 
mortgage account. In particular,  they say that Barclays has been unsympathetic to their 
financial difficulties. Mr and Mrs M say that Barclays aggressive treatment of them has 
caused them  considerable distress.
To settle  the complaint Mr and Mrs M want Barclays to accept its handling of their account  
has been poor. They want Barclays to reinstate a concession allowing them to pay £361.20 
per month towards their mortgage.  They also want Barclays  to begin a dialogue with them  
about the options available  to them in relation to the mortgage arrears,  including selling their 
house.
background
In January 2008 Mr and Mrs M took out a residential  mortgage with The Woolwich,  the 
mortgage lending  division of Barclays. They borrowed £275,000 over 18 years on a lifetime  
tracker rate of 0.59% over Barclays base rate. £41,000 of the mortgage was on an interest-
only basis and £234,000 was on a capital  repayment  basis.
The initial monthly  repayment due was £1,994.05, but it is now £1,272.62. 
Mr M ran a small business  which, unfortunately, experienced financial difficulties. This had a 
knock-on effect  on Mr and Mrs Ms income and their ability to service the mortgage 
repayments. The mortgage has been in arrears since 2010 and this complaint is about 
Mr and Mrs Ms dissatisfaction with the way in which  Barclays  has dealt with them since their 
account has been in arrears.
In summary,  Mr and Mrs M are unhappy  at the way in which Barclays has contacted them.  
They feel that Barclays attitude during telephone  calls was threatening and aggressive. 
They are very stressed at contact from solicitors acting for Barclays.  Mr and Mrs M have 
escalated their complaint  to the Chief Executive of Barclays but they believe Barclays  is 
trying to push them  towards litigation.
Mr and Mrs M have  explained that they have been  trying  to sell the property, but 
unfortunately the market for properties  of this type in their area is slow.  But they have also 
clarified that Mr Ms work  situation  has improved.
Arrears on the mortgage  are currently about £40,000. Payments of £361.20 are being made 
each month.
Barclays didnt think it had treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly, so they brought their complaint to 
us, where it was considered by an investigator. He looked at what had happened, but didnt 
think Barclays had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree with the investigator. They are unhappy that Barclays continues  
to write to them telling them they are in arrears  when  they have a payment arrangement  in 
place. They are also distressed that matters have progressed to this point when they 
thought, in good faith, that Barclays was trying to help them.
Ref: DRN06487842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry  for the situation in which Mr and Mrs M have found  themselves. Their 
business suffered  in the economic downturn and whilst this is not their fault, it isnt Barclays  
either.
Mr and Mrs M dont  believe Barclays has done enough to help them. So Ill look at what  
Barclays is required to do to assist  borrowers in financial difficulties.
The starting point  is that lenders have a duty to treat all customers, but particularly those 
facing financial hardship, fairly. Balanced against that, one of the fundamental principles 
underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has the right to receive payment of the 
money owed to it. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (known  as MCOB)  
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. The 
Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML)  also has its own guidelines about what it expects 
lenders to do to comply  with MCOB, which mirror closely  the requirements  of MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways  to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created  the arrears to begin  with is one that looks to be short-term and capable  of being 
resolved.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways  to help, such transferring  a 
mortgage from capital  and interest  repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period 
of time or capitalisation of arrears.  Balanced  against that is the lenders  obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement  is affordable and sustainable. 
Looking specifically at Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, Im satisfied that Barclays has shown 
considerable forbearance and has done  what I would expect it to do to assist Mr and Mrs M. 
Their situation  doesnt appear to be short-term and I dont think Barclays  is able to continue  
to grant  payment  concessions whilst the arrears are increasing substantially.  
I dont think capitalising  the arrears is an option.  Increasing their account balance  by a 
further £40,000 would result in a higher monthly  repayment and would inevitably result  in 
them falling back into arrears. Mr and Mrs M cannot pay the current monthly  instalment  and 
so capitalisation  isnt an affordable or sustainable  option.
Mr and Mrs M are unable  to meet the full monthly  repayment, and with each month that 
passes the account falls further into arrears. I know Mr and Mrs M are upset  that Barclays 
continues to write to them  about their arrears. I appreciate  this is distressing for them. But 
Barclays is under a regulatory obligation under MCOB 13.5 to provide, at least  quarterly, a 
written statement setting  out the payments  due, the amount of the arrears, any charges  
incurred and the outstanding debt. I dont think Barclays has acted unreasonably in doing  
this.
In all the circumstances, I dont think Barclays has treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly  or 
unreasonably, given the payment history  and the length of time they have been in arrears. 
Ref: DRN06487843Mr and Mrs M arent able to pay the full monthly instalment and there is a shortfall each 
month of more than £900.  
Allowing the arrears to continue to increase by £11,000 a year is not, in my opinion, in the 
best interests of Mr and Mrs M. All that will do is to increase  their debt. In the absence of any 
realistic prospect that Mr and Mrs M will either be to pay the full monthly mortgage 
repayment, plus an amount each month  off the arrears, or to clear the arrears in full (by an 
imminent sale of the property), I cant criticise Barclays for instructing solicitors to seek a 
possession order. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs M were hoping for. I am truly sorry if my decision 
adds to their distress.  But, for the reasons Ive given above, I am unable  to conclude  that 
Barclays has done anything wrong.
I understand Mr and Mrs M have been in contact with StepChange. Free advice is also 
available from Shelter  and Citizens Advice.  We can provide Mr and Mrs M with contact 
details for those agencies,  if theyd  like us to.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 October  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0648784