K821x#15complaint
Mr S says MYJAR  Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about nine payday  loans and instalment loans  MYJAR  provided to Mr S 
between July 2016 and September 2018.  Mr S borrowed from MYJAR  continuously  over two 
years with no significant breaks. His first payday  loan was for £425 and Mr S was required to 
repay £571.20 the following month. 
Mr S then borrowed  loans  two to four for similar amounts to be repaid in three monthly 
instalments. Loans  five to nine were to be repaid  in twelve monthly instalments. The 
amounts Mr S borrowed  increased to £575 and then up to £1,000. None of the loan 
repayments overlapped, but Mr S often  borrowed again the same day he repaid a previous 
loan. From what I can see, an amount remains outstanding for loan nine. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ss complaint and thought the loans from loan one onwards 
shouldnt have been given. MYJAR  disagreed  and asked for an ombudsmans review and so 
the complaint  was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN03575512I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, loan one required Mr S to repay £571.20  in one monthly  
instalment. Mr Ss stated  monthly income was £1,400. I think  MYJAR should have realised 
that it was unlikely that Mr S would be able to repay  over 40% of his income  and meet his 
normal living  needs without having  to borrow again.  So I think it was unlikely that Mr S would 
be able to sustainably  repay this loan,  or any subsequent loans. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending history with Mr S with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
six. I say this because:
By loan six, Mr S had been borrowing for ten months from MYJAR with no significant 
breaks and the amount borrowed had significantly increased.
From  loan six onwards Mr S was provided with a new loan within days  or weeks of 
settling a previous  one. So MYJAR ought to have  realised it was more likely than not that 
Mr S was having  to borrow  further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances and that Mr Ss indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MYJAR. Loan nine was 
taken out two years after Mr Ss first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr S had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to MYJAR  over an extended  period.
I think that Mr S lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Ss ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-
cost loans.
Ref: DRN03575513So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans one to nine and MYJAR  should  put things  right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans one to nine and waive any still 
outstanding; this refund should be offset against  any principal still owing and the rest 
paid to Mr S; or, if a balance remains outstanding, an affordable repayment plan should 
be set up;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans one to five from Mr Ss credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loan six onwards  means  any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  six to nine should  be removed from Mr Ss 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I require 
MYJAR Limited to pay Mr S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0357551