K820x#14complaint
S a charity,  complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) declined  its application 
for a new business  account and hasnt given a reason for this decision.  
S is represented in its complaint by Mr M.
background
In December 2018 S applied for a new account  with RBS by phone.  It appears the intention  
for the new account  was to accept a large  deposit  and then make  several  smaller  payments 
to other  accounts that S held. No further money was expected and S intended to keep its 
existing account  with another bank as its primary banking  facility. Mr M said S wanted this 
account to save  charges  from its other  bank account. After a lengthy discussion between 
Mr M and RBS, the application was rejected. No reason for the rejection was supplied.
Mr M on behalf of S complained and RBS declined to uphold  the complaint. It said while it 
wasnt willing to explain why RBS didnt accept the application  for a new account, it couldnt 
find the bank made  any error in denying application. RBS explained its not obliged to 
approve all account  opening requests and it can decide who to do business with. 
Unhappy with RBSs  response,  Mr M referred the complaint to this service.  An investigator 
looked at whats  happened but ultimately didnt uphold the complaint. He agreed  that RBS is 
entitled to decide who it provides accounts to and it doesnt have to provide a reason for 
rejecting an application since no credit facility  was involved in the application.   
Mr M didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said the decision to not allow 
S to open a new account has had a domino  effect  preventing it from opening accounts 
elsewhere, causing the charity financial harm. Mr M wants RBS to explain why the 
application was denied since it has held a deposit account with RBS since  the 1980s  and 
has always been in the black. 
Since the complaint was referred  for a decision,  Mr M provided this service  with an email 
from RBS from March  2019 that provides  further  details as to why the application was 
declined. This email confirmed the decision had nothing to do with Ss banking  conduct or 
financial standing.  But rather  that S intended  to keep  its main account with another  bank. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for the same reasons. 
I appreciate S will be disappointed,  but RBS, like all banks, can make commercial  decisions 
about who it offers banking services to and who it doesnt. In the same  way that a bank is 
entitled to end its banking relationship with a customer by closing accounts they hold with it, 
its also entitled not to accept an application for new products. 
This is just the same as a customer of a bank being entitled to decide  to end the relationship  
themselves  or decide who it might, or might not, want to bank with. And, ultimately, no 
explanation is required to be provided  for its decisions. Nevertheless, Im aware RBS has 
now provided S with an explanation of why it declined the application.
Ref: DRN05560622This service doesnt normally  interfere  with a banks legitimate commercial decisions.  Im 
satisfied RBSs decision to deny the application for a new business account  was a legitimate  
commercial decision.  
I understand Mr M believes S cant now open an account at another  bank because  RBS 
declined its application  and that this is causing  S financial  hardship. But, Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that RBSs  actions  have caused  the domino effect Mr M describes. And I 
understand the reason  for wanting to open the account was to save  fees from its primary 
account. I appreciate  not being able to do this is frustrating, but since I dont consider RBS 
has done anything  wrong, I wouldnt be able to hold it responsible  for the outcome of Ss 
applications at other  banks  or for the charges incurred at these other banks.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
S, to accept or reject  my decision before18 August 2019.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0556062