K820x#14complaint
In late 2013, Mr B complained to National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) that it had 
mis-sold him a packaged bank account,  called an Advantage Gold account. Mr B paid a 
monthly fee for the account and received several  potential benefits in return. 
In January 2014, NatWest accepted that it had mis-sold  the Advantage Gold  account to 
Mr B and paid him some compensation. But it continued to charge him the monthly  fee. 
Mr B thinks  this was unfair.  He wants NatWest to refund  him the fees he has paid since  
January 2014.  
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt think that 
NatWest had acted  unfairly. The adjudicator didnt recommend that NatWest should give 
him any money back.
Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked  for an ombudsman  to review 
his case. So, it has come to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Mr Bs case.  Ive 
looked into everything that Mr B and NatWest have  told us or sent us about the complaint, 
and Ive decided  not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr B has made several related complaints about NatWest,  but in this decision, I am only 
considering the single point of whether it behaved  fairly when  it continued to charge him the 
monthly fee for the Advantage  Gold account after it compensated  him for mis-selling. 
Mr B has told us that he thinks NatWest should  have  set up a new account  for him and 
not continued  to charge  (him).  His main  point  is that NatWest must have known that he 
wanted to cancel the Advantage Gold account and so ought  to have switched him to a fee-
free account. However, I would not expect a bank to make such a change to a customers 
account without  that customers  instruction; or without  the customers  consent if the bank 
was proposing a change. I would, however, have expected  NatWest  to let Mr B know  what  
was happening and to give him reasonable choices. 
NatWest has sent us a copy of a letter it wrote to Mr B in 2014 about  his complaint. Towards 
the end of the letter, there was a paragraph  which said:  
Please note that I have not downgraded your account to a non-fee  paying account  as 
you have not requested  this. You can call into any Branch or contact  (a helpline  
number) (if) you wish to downgrade the account.  The next fee is payable  on (date) 
I think this was a reasonable action for NatWest to take. Im satisfied that the letter gave 
Mr B fair choices. 
Ref: DRN02191232 
As background, I would  like to explain that in some situations a customer who has been 
mis-sold a packaged bank  account  at one time may want  to keep it at a later time. This 
may happen, for example,  if the customers circumstances or the benefits  of the account 
change or if a customer comes to rely on an insurance benefit. So, without an instruction 
from Mr B, NatWest  may well not have known that he wanted  to cancel his Advantage 
Gold account. 
Mr B has also mentioned that during  January  2014,  a member of Lloyds staff told him on 
the phone  that it would downgrade his account. Mr B hasnt given us many details of this 
phone call, and NatWest has not been  able to trace it.
Obviously, I cant tell for sure what was said during  the phone  call. But NatWest had 
accepted mis-selling  and it had paid compensation, and it continued  to show the monthly 
fees for the Advantage Gold account  on Mr Bs bank statements. So, I think it unlikely that 
NatWest would have  misled Mr B during the call. Im satisfied that it treated Mr B fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint about National 
Westminster Bank Plc. I am not going  to tell it to give him any money  back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2021.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0219123