K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2000.  Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mrs B in case  she 
was off work  sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.  
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Bs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application  only recommended they thought about PPI, and 
offered them  more information  if they wanted.  And they were originally given a quote for a 
mortgage without  PPI. There was a box they could sign if they wanted the policy,  which  
could be left blank  if they didnt want it. Mr and Mrs B signed for PPI, separately to signing  
the mortgage application as a whole. They also signed and submitted an application 
specifically for PPI, which set out its cost as separate  from the mortgages cost,  and not 
something that was automatically included. Overall, I think that Halifax made Mr and Mrs B 
aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose  to take it. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so it had to check it was right for them.  And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mr B 
wasnt eligible for cover, so it makes sense that they only paid for cover for Mrs B. Mrs B 
wasnt affected by any of the policys  main  exclusions or limitations. And from what shes  told 
us, she was only entitled to the very limited  statutory benefits if she was off sick or lost her 
job, and didnt have  any other protection. Its worth  bearing in mind that Mrs B was the main 
earner at the time, and if Mr and Mrs B fell behind on their mortgage payments they risked 
losing their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve  really been useful for them in protecting 
their home and giving  some peace  of mind.  
The PPI application  clearly set out the policys cost and benefit. So I think Mr and Mrs B 
wouldve understood how much they would need to pay for it if they chose  it.
Lastly, its possible that Halifax didnt point all out the main  things the policy wouldnt cover. 
But as I said above,  Mrs B doesnt  appear to have  been affected  by any of those things. 
Ref: DRN01783052my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 July 2019.  
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0178305