K820x#14complaint
Ms M says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card in 1998. Ms M says she was mis-sold the policy  
because she has no recollection of having PPI and she didnt  agree  to it.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  this case and told Ms M it shouldnt  be upheld.  But she 
disagreed and her complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Ive got no doubt that Ms M genuinely and honestly believes she was mis-sold this policy. 
But these  events were  quite a while and its obviously  possible that Ms M just cant 
remember what happened  over 20 years ago. 
I say this because  Ms M said she took out her credit card in a Halifax  branch. Weve seen a 
few similar  cases  to this and as a consequence, we now know  quite a bit about how the 
processes normally worked  and the type of paperwork that was used during the course of 
these sales. We know, for example, that consumers usually spoke with a Halifax  adviser to 
discuss their requirements and as a result of that discussion a credit agreement was then 
drawn up for the consumer to check and sign.
Ive looked at the original agreement Ms M signed and I can see theres a section on it about  
PPI. If the consumer wanted this type of cover, a box was required  to be checked.  There  
was an x placed  into this box on Ms Ms form and so I think it would have put there as a 
result of the discussion Ive mentioned above.  I think this is evidence that Ms M asked for the 
PPI and she would have been able to see she didnt need to have it if she didnt want  to.
But I was also sent a number of Ms Ms monthly credit card statements spanning a number 
of years.  She says she didnt know she had PPI but the statements show that she was being  
charged for credit card repayments  insurance. I think if Ms M hadnt ever wanted the PPI 
she would  have wanted to know what the charges  were for.
Im afraid I think these pieces of evidence show, quite strongly, that Ms M agreed to the PPI 
and would have  been able to see it had been set up on her account.
Halifax has conceded that it probably advised Ms M when  she took out the PPI and so it was 
under an obligation to make sure the policy was suitable for her. Ive looked  at her age, job, 
health and circumstances at the time to help me decide this.
I think Ms M was eligible for the PPI and I dont think that shed have been caught by any of 
the major  exclusions we tend to see in these policies. The monthly  cost of the policy  was 
Ref: DRN0123227278p per £100 of the outstanding balance which was comparable with similar policies I know 
were sold around that time. Ive got no evidence to suggest this was unaffordable  for Ms M. 
Ms M told us she already enjoyed some sickness protection with her job, implying she didnt 
need the PPI. I understand  why Ms M has said these things. But Im afraid they dont 
necessarily mean the PPI wasnt suitable.  Policies like this are designed to remove  the 
added pressure of paying credit card balances in financially  difficult  times and in the event of 
a successful claim it could have paid 10% of Ms Ms outstanding balance for up to 12 
months. This would have  been in addition  to any other benefits  she already had. So I dont  
think the recommendation to have PPI was an unreasonable one. 
Overall, I think the policy was suitable  for Ms M.
Halifax also needed to provide information  that was clear, fair and not misleading so Ms M 
could make an informed  choice as to whether she should buy the policy.  I can see ways 
where the form could  have been  made clearer. And I cant  say for sure whether she was told 
everything she shouldve  been told, but I dont think this would have  made any difference to 
whether or not she still would have bought the policy. I think  she would have been given 
something explaining the policy rules  and from the discussion,  I think  she would  have had 
enough information on which to make an informed  decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint. And I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything  to put matters  right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0123227