K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 2001  when    
Mrs B applied for a credit card. Mrs B says Barclays Bank Plc  trading as Barclaycard  
mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The policy was sold during a meeting between Mrs B and Barclaycard. Mrs B says the policy  
was added to her account without her knowledge or consent. Barclaycard says it wouldve 
made it clear  it was optional and has provided  a copy of Mrs Bs application form. 
Looking at the copy of the application form, it asks applicants to select  a box to say yes or 
no to whether  they wanted to buy the PPI or not. And there is nothing to suggest the policy  
is compulsory. If an applicant didnt  want the PPI they could have ticked the no box. The 
yes box has been ticked on Mrs Bs form and shes signed the application  form. So, I think  
Barclaycard made it clear  that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI  and she decided  to 
take it  although I can understand why she cant  remember this now. 
Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. Mrs B 
says she didnt get any sick pay benefits from her employer but that she had some savings 
she could have used.  Having the policy would have meant she couldve used her savings for 
other essential costs  if she was too unwell to work  or became unemployed. So she seems to 
have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as Ive explained above, it seems like it would have been  useful  for her 
if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.  
Which means Barclaycard  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  Barclaycard didnt tell Mrs 
B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN01187112I know Mrs B feels strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Shes put time and 
effort into his complaint. Ive given a lot of thought to all the points shes  raised  including 
what shes said about her partner and parents being  able to help out if she couldnt make her 
repayments. Whilst I dont  doubt  they wouldve wanted to help, circumstances change.  So I 
dont think this help couldve  been guaranteed. So this point doesnt change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0118711