K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about a life assurance  policy she took through  an authorised 
representative of Sesame Limited.  Shes  unhappy the policy  only provides cover until she 
reaches the age of 90. 
Shes represented in this complaint by her grand-daughter Mrs M.
background
In 2012 Mrs W took out two term assurance policies. This complaint is about the second of 
these, which  she took through P. At the time P was an authorised representative of Sesame. 
The policy was sold on a non-advised  basis. So P didnt  recommend a product to Mrs W. It 
researched the market for products  which may suit her requirements and Mrs W made  the 
decision. Mrs W told the advisor from P she wanted  to leave something to her daughter.  
Given a choice of policy terms  Mrs W chose one providing cover to her 90th birthday, which  
was with company  A. After she answered a number of questions about her health and 
lifestyle the premium was calculated. Mrs W accepted the quote, agreed to set up a direct 
debit for the monthly premium and the paperwork was sent to her by email and post.
In 2018 Mrs W phoned  company  A to get a copy of her policy  paperwork. She didnt realise 
until then the policy only covered her until her 90th birthday.  Shed  assumed it would pay out 
when she passed  away, regardless of when that would be.
Mrs M thinks  Sesame  should convert the policy to whole-of-life  without a large  increase  in 
Mrs Ws monthly premium. Or it should  return all the premiums to Mrs W, as the policy  
wasnt what she wanted.
Sesame explained  the advisor from P hadnt  recommended that policy  to Mrs W. Shed 
simply provided Mrs W with information to enable her to make up her own mind.  But it did 
agree the advisor should have explained  why she hadnt given Mrs W a quote for a whole of 
life policy. So it offered £200 for this. 
Mrs M thinks  her grandmother would never have taken out a time limited policy  if shed 
known. So its come to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why. 
Ive listened to the original set up call with the representative  from P which  took place a few 
days before  Mrs Ws 76th birthday in July 2012. It wasnt a cold call, P called Mrs W because 
shed made  an enquiry  through  its website. 
Mrs W told the advisor she wanted to leave  £10,000 to her daughter.  The advisor explained  
Mrs W had a couple of options but to bear in mind some insurers  have an upper age limit for 
life cover,  which could  be from 80 to 90. Mrs W said she didnt know when she might pop 
her clogs.  But she did mention later in the call that both her parents had passed away  in 
their seventies. 
Ref: DRN00941692The advisor said she could look at over-50 non-medical insurance policies. But she warned 
theres usually a two year exclusion  period  before making a claim with those. Then later she 
said Mrs W wouldnt be able to get a whole of life policy. Its not clear why she said this 
without checking.  She may have assumed Mrs W would find the premium  prohibitive. But at 
that point Mrs Ws budget hadnt been discussed.  Mrs M has since been told Mrs W would 
have had to pay around £50 a month  for a whole of life policy, or shed have to reduce the 
cover to £6,000.  But I agree the advisor  shouldnt have ruled  out a whole of life policy 
without checking  with Mrs W. She should  have provided information about the likely 
premium or level of cover shed be able to get, and let Mrs W decide for herself. 
The advisor returned to the question of the term Mrs W wanted  as the cost would depend on 
that. Mrs W said her sisters had lived into their late 80s so the advisor said shed look at 
policies up to age 90.  Mrs W didnt query why there  had to be any age limit, which Id have 
expected her to do, if shed intended  to buy a whole of life policy.   
The advisor indicated  the monthly premium for £10,000 of cover for 10 years would likely be 
£30-£35 which Mrs W said wouldnt  be too bad.  She didnt say it was expensive or 
unaffordable, but the way she said it makes me think she didnt consider it an insignificant  
amount. The advisor then said any quotes  would be subject to medical conditions and asked 
if Mrs W had any. Mrs W disclosed one condition shed suffered a while  ago for which shed 
taken medication. She confirmed shed been a non-smoker for nine years.
Before providing  any actual quotes, the advisor read out some information explaining how 
Sesame works. Although  it was clearly scripted, in my opinion  her tone and pace made  it 
easy to follow and she made sure Mrs W understood everything before moving on.
The advisor stressed she wasnt able to offer Mrs W any advice.  She would provide 
information for Mrs W to decide  whats going to suit her needs best. And if Mrs W took a 
policy, information about Sesame and a key facts document about  the product would be sent 
by post and email.  Mrs W said she was due to go on holiday in a couple of days.  The advisor 
said that wouldnt be a problem if she set the policy up and got it approved, as the 
paperwork would be waiting for her return from holiday. But she noticed Mrs Ws imminent  
birthday and warned the premium would go up if she left it until she got back.  Mrs W was 
happy to go ahead. 
The advisor found two firms able to provide £10,000  of cover to age 90 (a term of 14 years).  
Ones monthly premium was just over £38 and the other with company A was £30.33.  Mrs W 
said shed take the cheaper one, which the advisor said also included terminal illness cover  
to the end of the policy whereas the other one didnt. Mrs W didnt ask for guidance  about  
which policy  she should choose. If she had, the advisor would have repeated  that she cant  
give advice. Im satisfied Mrs W made the decision herself and wasnt confused about the 
level of cover or term. 
Mrs W asked  what would  happen  if she passed away  within  the first two years. The advisor 
assured her theres no waiting period, as cover is immediate. She warned that giving 
incorrect responses to any of the health and lifestyle questions  may prevent a claim being  
paid. And she said cover  would end if Mrs W failed to keep up the monthly premiums. 
Before completing the application the advisor ran through the features and benefits of the 
policy and again  made it clear  the policy was to age 90. This was repeated at the end of the 
call when cover  was approved and the premium was confirmed. So at the point of sale it was 
Ref: DRN00941693made clear to Mrs W the policy was until her 90th birthday, and she didnt  query this or ask if 
the cover  could be extended  beyond that date. 
Mrs W was told she could cancel the policy within 30 days.  So even if Mrs W didnt receive 
the policy information by post or email  before she went on holiday, I think she had sufficient 
time when  she got back to read it through to ensure  it met her expectations. And if it shed 
wanted a whole of life policy rather than one with a fixed  term, there was time for her to 
cancel it within the 30 days. 
So in the six years since she took the policy Mrs W mislaid her policy  documents  and may 
have forgotten  what shed  agreed to. But I think at the time she took out the policy she 
understood it was only going to provide cover to her 90th birthday, and the premium  shes  
been paying is based on that. 
The advisor from P didnt  go into the features and benefits of a whole of life policy  or provide 
a premium quote to Mrs W. But she did explain thered be no pay-out if Mrs W passed away 
within the first two years. And Mrs W wanted to make sure no such  exclusion applied  to the 
policy she chose. So considering the higher premium, lower  cover amount and exclusionary 
period, Im not persuaded Mrs W would have chosen a whole of life policy, even if shed 
been quoted for one by P.
I appreciate Mrs M feels her grandmothers moneys been wasted. But all insurance has the 
potential for the cost to exceed  the benefit.  So people who dont make claims on a policy  
effectively subsidise those  who do. As far as Im aware Mrs W fortunately  remains in good 
health, so she may outlive  the term. But the policy  still has eight years to run, within which, 
should Mrs W pass away, her daughter will receive £10,000. Which is far more  than the 
premiums are likely  to achieve in a savings account,  even if she paid in for the full 14 years.  
So I cant say the policy is of no benefit to her, or that it would be fair for Sesame to refund 
her premiums. 
I cant agree  with Mrs M that it would be fair for Sesame to amend Mrs Ws policy to whole of 
life with no significant increase in her monthly premium.  From what  Mrs M has been told, for 
the same  level of cover, Mrs W would need to pay around £20 more per month.  So shed 
have underpaid premiums  of approximately £240  per year since 2012.  
But as I explained  earlier, the advisor  from P shouldnt have discounted a whole of life policy  
without giving Mrs W an explanation, so Sesame should pay some compensation for that. 
And I think the £200 its already offered is fair to reflect  this. So I wont  be asking it to do 
more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as the £200 offered by Sesame Limited is sufficient to resolve 
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Ref: DRN00941694Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0094169