K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that HSBC UK Bank plc wrongly opened  a credit card account in her name  
and she believes she has been  a victim of identity  theft.
background
In January 2019 an online application was made for a credit card using Mrs Ps personal 
details. HSBC sent out the credit card and personal  identification number (PIN) to Mrs Ps 
genuine address but she says she didnt receive  them. Someone  used  the card to make one 
payment of just over £1,000.
HSBC says that it verified Mrs Ps name, address  and date of birth electronically before  
sending out the card and PIN. It then carried out further account opening procedures.  
Following these it wrote to Mrs P to say that it didnt want to provide  credit facilities and had 
decided to close the account.  A week after the date of that letter, Mrs P told HSBC that she 
hadnt applied  for the account. 
HSBC investigated  and accepted that Mrs P had been a victim of impersonation. It closed 
the account, removed all traces of it from Mrs Ps credit file and wrote  off the outstanding 
balance. It also reported the impersonation  to a fraud prevention agency. This action is taken 
to help prevent  a third party trying to take out credit in Mrs Ps name again. The marker 
remains in place for 13 months.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. She said that HSBC  had taken 
fair steps  to put matters right by cancelling the balance,  closing the account,  removing  it from 
Mrs Ps credit  file and notifying  the fraud prevention agency. 
Mrs P didnt agree. In summary, she thought she should receive some compensation 
because HSBC hadnt explained how it had allowed  this happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs P feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats clear from what 
shes said to both us and HSBC. And thats  not surprising. It must be very upsetting  to find 
you have been  the victim of fraud  by somebody impersonating you and trying to take out a 
credit card in your name. So Mrs P is bound to be concerned.
HSBC has accepted that the credit card application  wasnt made by Mrs P and Mrs P says 
that she has never had an account with HSBC. As such, this means that its questionable 
whether Mrs P is an eligible complainant under our rules. In the case of banks and building 
societies, this  usually means that a complaint  can only be brought  to us by a customer or a 
potential customer and the complaint must  arise  from matters  relevant  to Mrs P having a 
relationship with HSBC.  She says she isnt a customer of HSBC.
Nevertheless, Mrs P has our investigators opinion on the steps HSBC took in response to 
her concerns, and hopefully this will enable her to move on. Im satisfied that she hasnt 
suffered any financial  loss. HSBC closed the account within a few days  of it being  opened  
Ref: DRN00679232and before Mrs P knew what had happened. In the circumstances,  I dont think I can 
properly require HSBC  to do anything further to resolve the issues raised  by Mrs P. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0067923