K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Valour Finance Limited (trading as Savvy.co.uk) gave him an instalment 
loan irresponsibly. He wants a refund  of his interest  and charges and for negative 
information to be removed from his credit  file.
background
Mr O took out one instalment loan from Savvy.co.uk in May 2018. He said he was gambling 
at the time and had a lot of debt. He said he completed his application online and wasnt  
asked for any evidence. Savvy.co.uk said in response to Mr Os complaint about affordability  
that it had carried  out proportionate checks that showed that he could afford  the loan. It said 
Mr O hadnt then made any loan repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought 
Savvy.co.uks affordability checks had gone far enough. He thought these showed that Mr O 
had sufficient disposable income  to repay  his loan. So he didnt think  Savvy.co.uk had been 
wrong to provide it. 
Mr O replied that hed told Savvy.co.uk what he recalled  about his expenditure. But he 
thought it should have  done more to check that he could afford the loan and wasnt already 
drowning in debt. Mr O also raised  concerns about  how Savvy.co.uk had dealt with his 
repayment plan.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O borrowed  £1,000  to be repaid  in 15 monthly instalments of £133.33. Savvy.co.uk said 
Mr O had made two small repayments for his loan.  
Savvy.co.uk was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks  to make sure that 
Mr O could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr O was borrowing, and his lending  history.  But 
there was no set list of checks Savvy.co.uk had to do.
Savvy.co.uk said it verified  Mr Os monthly  income  as £1,400  from a credit check. It said it 
spoke to Mr O and he told it his monthly expenditure for his living costs and regular bills was 
£326. It said it checked Mr Os credit file and saw that he had monthly  credit  commitments of 
£120. It didnt  see any recent defaults and it asked Mr O about  a recent loan hed taken  out. 
So it said this left Mr O with a disposable income  of £954. 
Mr O told us that he told Savvy.co.uk just what he recalled  at the time of the call. Having 
listened to the call, I heard Mr O confirm some  information that hed already provided online.  
Savvy.co.uk then asked  him questions about  his other outgoings, including other short-term 
loans. 
I think Savvy.co.uk could reasonably rely on the accuracy of the information  Mr O provided 
unless it had cause  for concern. Ive looked  at the credit search it carried out and listened to 
the call with Mr O. 
Ref: DRN07886882I cant see anything that should have prompted  further checks. So I think that Savvy.co.uks 
affordability checks were proportionate and sufficient. These checks showed that Mr O could 
comfortably afford his loan repayments. So I cant say it was wrong for Savvy.co.uk to 
provide the loan and I dont require it to pay Mr O any refund.  
Mr O was also concerned with how Savvy.co.uk dealt with the loan when he told it of his 
financial difficulties. I can see that Savvy.co.uk asked  Mr O for further information about  his 
income and expenditure. This conflicted with what hed previously told it and it said it showed 
that Mr Os outgoings  exceeded his income. 
So Savvy.co.uk  said that it put Mr Os account  on hold for 30 days  and asked for Mr O for 
three months bank  statements and further information about his debts. But he declined to 
provide these. Mr O did though provide  a copy of his payslip to verify his income. And 
Savvy.co.uk said it referred  Mr O to a debt advice service. 
When a consumer tells a business about their financial difficulties, we expect it to respond 
positively and sympathetically. From what I can see, Savvy.co.uk did this by putting Mr Os 
account on hold,  trying to establish his financial circumstances accurately to set up a 
repayment plan and then referring  him to seek advice.  
Mr O said in his complaint form sent to us that he wants to repay  his debts through a 
repayment plan.  I think it was reasonable for Savvy.co.uk to verify Mr Os income and 
expenditure in order  to establish an affordable repayment plan. I can understand that Mr O 
feels uncomfortable about this. But I dont think its unusual to ask for evidence  to set this up.
If Mr O is unhappy with the repayment arrangements, then he can always complain directly 
to Savvy.co.uk about this. If hes unhappy  with its response, then he can bring his complaint 
to us. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0788688