K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out by 
post alongside a credit card in 2001. Ms O says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her 
the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Os case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make Ms O aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before  
adding the policy to her card. Nationwide has sent us a copy of the paperwork available from 
the time.  Ms Os credit card application form had a separate section for PPI that gave 
options to either accept  or decline the policy. The option  to take the policy has been  
selected, and the application  form has been  signed  in agreement  with the selections that 
have been made. 
Ms O has told us that she called Nationwide both before taking the policy to discuss  PPI and 
again once she received  her first statement. She says Nationwide  told her the PPI was 
mandatory. 
We have asked Nationwide for a copy  of any call recording or call note from the time Ms O 
applied for the policy and shortly after. Nationwide has explained  that it doesnt have any call 
notes on its system from the time and call recordings are no longer available.  This isnt 
surprising considering how long ago the policy was taken out, and businesses arent 
required to keep this information indefinitely. 
From the information that is available I think Nationwide made it clear that Ms O didnt have 
to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it out.
I dont think Nationwide  recommend the PPI to Ms O so it didnt  have to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Ms O got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Ms O about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had 
of making her repayments,  which included statutory sick pay and a small amount of savings. 
But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Ms Os sick pay, and for longer. It would also 
have helped protect her savings so they could  be used  towards  other expenses. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Ms Os circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong and I dont  think better information about the PPI would  have 
put her off taking out the cover.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms O. 
Ref: DRN03668072But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms O because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms O about that. Because Nationwide  didnt tell Ms O, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case. 
Ive thought about everything Ms O has said - including  that Nationwide  didnt action  her 
request to cancel the policy in 2005. But Nationwide  has now confirmed it has refunded  all 
payments made after this date which I think is fair.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Ms O. 
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Ms O any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms O to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0366807