K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI)  failed  to tell her she had a £10 balance  
on her credit  card account after she had closed it, and that then adversely impacted on her 
credit file when she tried to purchase goods  on finance.
background
Miss P had a credit card account with BOI in the form of a Post Office Money account. Her 
13 March 2018  statement  showed her  balance  was £41.64 which she paid in full. But, on 
the 7 April 2018 Miss P made a payment of £10 on her account to a third party company I 
shall call X. On the 9 April Miss P rang BOI and asked for her account to be closed, which  it 
was the next day. But, the BOI agent  didnt  tell her there was a £10 balance.
Miss P tried to get finance in August 2018,  but her application was refused. She contacted 
Experian who said her score had been adversely affected because  BOI had recorded the 
outstanding debt of £10. Miss P said that after she closed her account, she didnt  get any 
statements or letters from BOI requesting payment.
BOI said they did issue a statement to Miss P dated  the 13 April 2018, which had been 
generated automatically prior to her closing the account. It showed the £10 balance and the 
minimum payment of £5 being due by the 8 May 2018. BOI accepted that further  statements 
were not issued because the account  was closed by that time, and neither were any 
automated letters issued as no arrears charges  had been applied  to the account. They said 
that as Miss P hadnt made any payments to clear the balance they hadnt done  anything 
wrong in recording  the debt as unpaid.
But, BOI did accept that their agent  should  have told Miss P on the 9 April there was a 
balance due, to give her the opportunity  to pay it. Because of that they accepted she might 
have been unaware of the balance, so they offered her £50 compensation and agreed to 
remove any impact  on her credit file for the non-payments in May, June, and July 2018.
Miss P was unhappy  with BOIs response and so an adjudicator from this service looked into 
the complaint  but didnt think BOI had done  anything  wrong.  Miss P disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and so the matter  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My decisions are based on the available 
evidence and where evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory,  I reach  my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is more likely  to 
have happened  in light of that evidence and the wider  circumstances.  
The accepted facts are that Miss P cleared her account balance  in late February  2018.  She 
knew then her balance  was zero. She then made  a payment of £10 to X a few days  before 
she asked for her account to be closed. On a balance of probabilities it is likely that at that 
time she would  therefore know  she had the outstanding balance of £10.
Miss P disputes that BOI sent out the statement dated the 13 April. She says the letter dated 
the 4 October  2018 from BOI proves that, but I am afraid I disagree. It shows that at the 
point she made the call on the 9 April, BOI had not yet issued the statement, and as such, 
because their agent did not advise her of the outstanding balance, they felt there had been a 
Ref: DRN09889912failing in service. There  is no mention in the letter of not issuing the April statement. The 
evidence from BOI shows they have  retrieved the April statement,  and I also accept the 
explanation that their automated systems would generate  the statement some  time before it 
was actually sent out in the post.  But, I also accept that Miss P did not receive the statement 
as I have no reason  to doubt her. But equally I have no reason to doubt  that it was sent. So, 
even though Miss P did not receive  the statement  she knew  there was a balance as I 
mention above.  So it is reasonable to expect her to have paid it after she closed the account.
Regarding Miss Ps credit  score, the issue  is whether it has been  adversely affected. Miss P 
no longer has the documentation to support that argument, and when our adjudicator looked 
into the matter he was satisfied none  had been recorded with CallCredit or Equifax. That is 
right. And, BOI have  argued that there  are many  factors which influence a decision  to give 
credit and that is also true. Credit providers will take account of not only a persons credit 
scoring but also their overall level of indebtedness and whether they can afford to take on 
the credit. So, without  any direct evidence that BOIs  recording of the outstanding debt has 
caused the negative decision to grant credit, I cant say BOI have done anything  wrong.
I think we have an unfortunate situation  here. But what I need to decide is whether BOI 
acted fairly  and reasonably in how it dealt with Miss P. Ive found that Miss P knew  of the 
outstanding balance in April and yet she did not pay it. When BOI were  notified in August of 
the issue, it did act positively and sympathetically by removing  the negative  impact caused 
by the non payment in May June and July. They also recognised  that their agent failed to 
properly advise Miss P on the 9 April and have offered  her compensation.
So I cant say that BOI has done anything wrong beyond  failing to advise Miss P of the 
outstanding balance on the 9 April 2018.  I have thought about the £50 offer of compensation 
BOI made to Miss P and I agree with our adjudicator that this is reasonable. It is in line with 
the moderate awards this service would make  for distress and inconvenience in 
circumstances like this, and I think it is fair. 
my final decision
The Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  So my decision is that The Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc should pay £50 to Miss P. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0988991