K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2005 
alongside a mortgage. Ms M says Bank of Scotland plc, Halifax  at the time, mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Ms N says she wasnt made aware  the policy was optional and it was added without her 
knowledge. Ive thought  about this, but Ive also considered that this policy  was sold a long 
time ago  about 14 years ago  which is something  I need to keep in mind  when deciding 
what I think is more likely  to have happened. 
Halifax says the optional nature of the policy  wouldve been made clear to Ms N before the 
sale was concluded.  And from on what weve seen of these types of sales  in the past, the 
customer wouldve usually had to complete  some  paperwork making an active selection in 
favour of the PPI before it was added to their account. Unfortunately  due to the length of 
time thats  passed  not all the documents from the sale are available. But I have seen a copy 
of a quotation for PPI and a welcome letter which was sent to Ms N. The quotation sets out 
the type and amount of cover, and shows  that Ms N was asked some questions about  her 
suitability for the policy. So I think the PPI was discussed and that Ms N was aware of the 
PPI at the time. 
Ive also looked  at the welcome letter which states Thank you for choosing Halifax Total  
Mortgage Protection Plan. Although this letter came after the sale I think this indicated that 
Ms N had a choice about the policy. And I think she wouldve questioned this with Halifax  if 
she wasnt aware it was optional at the point the policy was added  to her account.  
So overall based on the evidence Ive seen I think that Halifax  made it clear that Ms N didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
she cant remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms M so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover.  
Ms M says she didnt need  this policy as she had sick pay from her employer and had 
savings and support  from family. But help from others cant always be relied  on as their 
circumstances can also change over time,  so while  Im sure Ms Ms family wouldve wanted 
to help there is no guarantee they wouldve been  in a position  to do so when she needed it. 
Ive thought about what Ms M said about her sick pay and savings, but the PPI wouldve paid 
out in addition to these  means and for longer. So these funds couldve been used for other 
Ref: DRN09671582expenses. Ms M was solely responsible  for her repayments and considering the 
consequences of not being  able to make these  payments, I think  having the policy  in place 
provided her with some additional security. So I still think the policy was suitable  for Ms M. 
Ms M says she wasnt given any information  about the policy  and wasnt made  aware the 
PPI would cost an additional amount each month.  But looking at the quotation and welcome 
letter I can see that the cost of the policy was clearly  set out as well as the monthly benefit 
amount. So I think Ms M knew  what  the policy wouldve costed her per month  before 
agreeing to the cover. 
It is possible some of the other information  Halifax gave Ms M about  the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for her if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
For all the reasons outlined above,  I dont think the policy  was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019. 
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0967158