K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the service provided  by Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc 
(M&S) when  his contactless card stopping  working.
background
Mr A contacted M&S  in mid-June as his contactless card wasnt  working.  The M&S advisor 
he spoke to said that sometimes the card would decline and hed be asked to re-enter his 
PIN. However Mr A said he couldnt recall his PIN. A PIN reminder was requested for him 
the same  day. 
Mr A contacted M&S  again at the start of July to say he still wasnt able to use his card via 
contactless, despite receiving and using  the PIN reminder. A new card was requested for 
him the same day. 
Mr A is unhappy because he feels hes never been  told hed need to keep  his PIN and use it 
from time to time. He was under the impression  that if he used the PIN once he wouldnt 
need to again if he was using the card for transactions under £30. Hes also unhappy that his 
card still didnt work after hed entered the PIN and that he wasnt  issued a new card when 
he called  the first time. He feels his cards  contactless feature has failed  on multiple 
occasions and that M&S  have failed to provide  him with a contactless service  for a number 
of months.
Mr A also says hes dissatisfied with the time its taken to complain about his card not 
working and feels  hes been inconvenienced  by the situation. Lastly, hes unhappy branch 
staff discussed his personal details in the open  and he feels this complaint point has been  
ignored. 
M&S offered Mr A £45 in recognition of the fact his contactless card failed and to 
acknowledge the inconvenience caused  by having to call them. Mr A was unhappy with this 
and brought his complaint  to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the case.  She felt the compensation offered by M&S was fair but 
Mr A disagreed. So the case has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
I understand Mr A thought he wouldnt ever need  to use his PIN with his contactless card 
once hed done so initially. And it seems he felt his card wasnt  working at all when he first 
called M&S,  so he thinks he shouldve been  sent a new card straight  away.  But the fact 
remains that he couldnt recall his PIN at that time. So there  was no way for M&S to know 
whether there was a problem with the card, or whether  the card provider was simply asking 
for a PIN confirmation. 
Occasionally a card provider will decline a contactless transaction and ask for a PIN to be 
entered for security purposes. This may happen  if the card hasnt been  used for some time. 
In Mr As case, he hadnt used the card for a few months. But its not uncommon for this to 
Ref: DRN02162732happen anyway   even if hed used  the card frequently. So I dont think its unreasonable 
M&S sent him a PIN reminder in case  the declined transaction was simply a security check  
rather than his card failing. 
I know Mr A says he recalls being told at some point that if he used his PIN once  then the 
contactless would work  without ever having to re-enter the PIN. But I havent  seen  anything  
to show this was the case. As Ive explained  above,  its not unusual  for a card provider to 
decline contactless transactions sometimes, and request PIN confirmations.  This is done in 
the interests of cardholder  security,  due to the nature of contactless technology. It isnt 
something M&S is able to control or change. So even  if Mr A had been  told this in the past,  it 
wouldnt have been correct.
Mr A says that hes experienced similar  problems with his contactless card multiple times 
before. But I havent  seen  anything to show this is the case. A final response letter  sent in 
September 2017 shows Mr A was reissued a PIN around that time. But the letter doesnt 
refer to any card or contactless problems. Instead, it describes how Mr A attempted to 
withdraw cash in branch  and change the name  on his account,  but hadnt  been able to recall 
his PIN in order to do this. 
Mr A feels  hes had ongoing long-term problems with his card and has suggested  he was 
also reissued a new PIN in April 2018.  Ive seen  the PIN history system notes for Mr As 
account and these dont show that one was issued to him in April 2018.  And M&S  say they 
can see Mr A used  his card and PIN in April.  Overall,  I havent seen enough  to say theres a 
continuing problem  with Mr As card. 
Mr A feels  M&S ignored his complaint about  branch staff discussing personal information out 
in the open. But Ive seen  a copy of a letter to Mr A dated July 2018 which specifically deals 
with this. The letter acknowledges Mr As concerns and says that, if hed expressed these at 
the time,  branch staff wouldve offered to move  to a private area.  Ive seen nothing to 
suggest this wouldnt  have been case.  And Id expect  if Mr A wished to take the discussion 
privately that he would  have  mentioned  this to branch staff at the time. I think its reasonable 
M&S didnt  revisit this point as part of Mr As complaint about his card, as theyd already 
addressed it.   
M&S paid Mr A £20 compensation  in recognition of the fact they had to issue him with a new 
card after his PIN reminder didnt work. They  also paid £25 to cover  his call costs.  I 
appreciate Mr A was unhappy that his contactless function didnt work and I accept this had 
some impact  on him, for example when he tried to pay for car parking and because he had 
to call M&S to get the problem fixed. 
But I cant hold the business responsible for the fact Mr A couldnt recall his PIN when he 
first called them. Its the nature of a bank  card that the customer will need to use their PIN at 
times, whether that card has contactless technology or not. And I can see M&S  worked  with 
Mr A to fix the problem.  They requested a new card for him as soon as hed told them  the 
PIN reminder hadnt helped. They called him back when  promised and addressed all of his 
complaint points fairly. So taking everything into account, I feel the total offer of £45 
compensation is fair. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN02162733Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0216273