K820x#14complaint
This is about  a complaint that The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) changed Mr Ms 
packaged bank  account (PBA) in 2015,  without his knowledge and without telling  him there  
was an alternative free account. 
background
Mr M originally complained that, in 1991,  RBS had mis-sold him a PBA for which he was 
charged a regular fee. He also said RBS had upgraded the account  in 2003 and 2015 
without his knowledge. Overall he said he hadnt been told there was a free alternative.
One of my fellow ombudsmen looked at Mr Ms complaint to decide  on whether we could 
look into all of it. He said we would  only be able to look at the change to the account that 
happened in 2015. This is because of the rules about time limits that govern the ombudsman 
service.
An adjudicator then investigated the 2015 change. She said she didnt think that RBS had 
acted wrongly. 
Mr M didnt  agree, and so the case has been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our approach to considering the sale of packaged bank accounts on our 
website, which everyone can read.  Ive kept that approach in mind when considering Mr Ms 
case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why. 
RBS says that in 2015 it decided to discontinue  the type of PBA that Mr M had. It says it 
wrote by post to account holders to tell them about  this, and to say it would automatically 
transfer everyone over to a very similar PBA. RBS has sent us a copy of the letter template it 
used. I can see that the account provided very similar benefits to the old account with only a 
few changes; and the letter says it would cost the same amount each month. 
The letter was headed, Were  moving you to an improved account. It was quite a short  
letter and ended:
We really hope you'll be happy with your new Select Platinum Account. If you don't  
think this account  is right for you, you always have the option to change or close  it. 
Please just come into branch or call us and we'll help you find one that suits you 
better. We have a range of accounts with or without a monthly  fee - visit 
rbs.co.uk/accounts to find out more. 
There was then a table explaining the differences in benefits between the old and new 
accounts.
Ref: DRN08936352RBS has also sent us a screen shot of Mr Ms address details on its computer  system.  
These show that these  had remained  the same for several years before 2015  and I can 
see, from our own records, it is the same  address he still has. 
The change in 2015 wasnt actually a new sale of an account, rather than a change in 
terms. And I dont think it was unreasonable for RBS to decide to change  the account in this 
way. Given that it wasnt  a major change,  I think RBS did enough  to warn Mr M about the 
change and to explain his choices.  I havent seen anything  to suggest that Mr M wouldnt 
have been sent this letter  or that RBS should  have known he hadnt received it. 
So I think RBS has acted  reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 October  2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0893635