K820x#14complaint
Ms C has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC didnt do enough to help her when she fell 
victim to a scam in October 2018. She says Barclays  should have stopped  the transactions 
or refunded the money to her.
background
Ms C says she had been the victim of an earlier scam in June 2018.  Barclays has a record 
of a payment  dispute from this time in relation to one transaction.
On the evening of 10 October 2018,  Ms C was called by someone claiming to work for 
Barclays. Ms C says the feel of the phone call, in terms of the process that was followed, 
was very much  like the phone calls she had with Barclays  in June 2018, which is why she 
believed she was talking  to Barclays. Also, the number that she was called from was a 
genuine Barclays phone number, which also gave her confidence that she was speaking  to 
the bank.
The person  on the phone  told her that her current account had been compromised again and 
therefore, to secure  the funds, it was necessary to transfer money to a new account.  Ms C 
was given an account number and sort code that was supposedly for her new account. She 
then made  two transfers (for £599 and £900) on 10 October 2018 and one transfer  for 
£1,499 the following morning.
Ms C became suspicious about the transfers  and so contacted Barclays  on 13 October 2018 
to explain that she might have been scammed. Barclays contacted the scammers  bank to 
see if any of Ms Cs money could be retrieved.  But the scammers bank confirmed that no 
money remained from Ms Cs transactions.
Barclays told Ms C that, because shed authorised the transaction, it wasnt going to refund 
the money to her. However, Barclays did offer Ms C £200 as a gesture  of goodwill in 
recognition of the position she found herself  in following the scam.
Our adjudicator thought that Barclays had done as much  as it could to help, so he didnt 
uphold the complaint. Ms C disagrees  with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint  
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
 
Having done so, I think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in allowing  the transfers to 
leave Ms Cs account. And I think it took appropriate  steps  to try and recover funds from the 
beneficiary bank. So, I cant fairly  say that Barclays should reimburse Ms C with the £2,998 
she lost. Ill explain why in more detail.
Ref: DRN05060602In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. When  Ms C 
made the payments, she didnt know he was dealing with a scammer,  so she sent the 
money in good  faith. This means that  at the time  she wanted the payments to go ahead  
and authorised them to be made. And I have  taken that into account  when  deciding  what  is 
fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer.  
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Ms C when she transferred a total of £2,998  or whether it should have done more  than it 
did. But I dont think the payments were particularly suspicious or unusual enough to say 
Barclays ought to have had concerns that Ms C was being scammed. Ms C says that the 
transactions were  hugely unusual for her but, looking at her bank statements in the months 
preceding the scam, Ms C has made a couple of payments for over £1,000. And rather  than 
clearing out her account, Ms C was left with a balance of £364  afterwards.  Therefore I dont 
Ref: DRN05060603think the transactions were sufficiently suspicious to conclude Barclays ought  to have 
identified that they might be potentially fraudulent. 
The scammers had access to number cloning technology, which masks the real number that 
they are calling from. Thats why Ms C thought  she was being called from a genuine 
Barclays number. But I cant hold Barclays responsible  for that, and Barclays wouldnt have 
known at the time that a phone call was taking place.
When Ms C told Barclays shed  been  scammed, it contacted the scammers bank to see if 
any of Ms Cs money was still in the receiving account and could be retrieved.
Ms C contacted Barclays on 13 October  2018. From  the evidence  Ive seen, Barclays  didnt 
contact the beneficiary  bank until 15 October,  so two days  after Ms C reported  the scam. 
However, this didnt make a difference as the beneficiary bank confirmed that the funds were 
removed from the scammers account within three hours of being deposited, leaving only a 
balance of 90 pence. So even if Barclays had contacted the beneficiary bank immediately 
after speaking to Ms C on 13 October 2018, there  would still have been no money left to 
refund to her.
Any further investigations into what happened  to the money  after it left the scammers 
account werent the responsibility of Barclays and it wouldnt  have unrestricted access to that 
information. 
Its extremely unfortunate that Ms C has lost money.  I understand that the whole experience 
will have been hugely upsetting for her. But in the circumstances, I cant  fairly say that 
Barclays should have  done more to prevent  her loss. I cant hold Barclays responsible for 
Ms C having  fallen victim to a scam and I think that Barclays  took appropriate steps, albeit  
with a slight delay,   to help her once it knew what had happened. So it would not be fair to 
ask Barclays to compensate Ms C for her loss.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Ms Cs complaint. However, Barclays should  pay Ms C 
the £200 compensation it offered her now, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0506060