K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited (AXA) has declined his claim for 
treatment.
background
Mr F has private  medical  insurance with AXA underwritten on a moratorium  basis.
He contacted AXA as he had knee  pain. In January 2019, his GP referred him to an 
orthopaedic consultant as a scan had found that he had tibial torsion.   
Mr F saw a specialist who recommended tibial correction  treatment by external fixators. But 
AXA declined his claim on the basis that the treatment wasnt  conventional for his condition 
and there  was insufficient evidence that the treatment was effective for knee pain. 
AXA said that although tibial torsion can cause  knee pain, the tibial correction might improve  
alignment and appearance but there was insufficient  evidence  to show the overall impact on 
pain. Based on when Mr F started  to experience pain in his knees, he wouldnt  be covered 
under the moratorium  if it was deemed to be a pre-existing condition.  And so AXA would 
need further evidence from his physiotherapist before considering  any treatment for his 
condition. 
Mr F was unhappy with AXAs decision and referred his complaint to our service.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think AXA had done anything wrong as it 
had fairly  applied the terms and conditions of the policy. But Mr F disagreed. I have 
summarised his main comments below:
AXA hasnt provided evidence of its medical teams qualifications
He has provided  journals to AXA which show external fixators  improve  pain and 
functionality 
Rotational deformity correction alleviates knee pain, and this is confirmed by medical 
experts and journals
And so the case has been passed  to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mr Fs 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy covers eligible treatment and explains  what is covered:
treatment of a disease, illness or injury where  that treatment:
is of an acute condition
is conventional  treatment
Ref: DRN01986022Conventional treatment  is defined in the policy as follows:
is established as best medical  practice, and is practised widely within  the UK; 
and
is clinically appropriate  in terms of necessity, type, frequency, extent, duration 
and the facility or location where the treatment is provided; and has either
been shown  to be effective for your medical condition  through substantive 
peer reviewed clinical evidence in published  authoritative medical journals; or 
been approved  by NICE (The National Institute  for Health and Care 
Excellence) as a treatment which may be used in routine practice.
Mr F saw an orthopaedic specialist, Mr H, who recommended treatment with external 
fixators. AXA considered  Mr Hs recommendation but said the treatment wasnt  covered as it 
wasnt conventional  treatment for his condition. 
AXA reviewed Mr Fs GP reports, his claim form, the specialists report and the procedure 
code. AXAs medical  team  said the procedure which had been recommended  was for the 
treatment of fractures. Mr F provided  AXA with a number of medical journals and said they 
showed the treatment was effective  for anterior  knee pain.
AXA reviewed the journals and said the journals didnt demonstrate the recommended  
treatment was proven  effective for anterior knee  pain. In addition,  it needed further  
information about when Mr F first experienced pain in his knees due to the moratorium. 
Based on the policy terms and the information  available, Im satisfied that AXAs  decision to 
decline the claim wasnt unfair or unreasonable as the treatment recommended wasnt 
conventional treatment for his condition. In addition, AXA has said it needs  further  
information from his physiotherapist  to determine  when he first had problems with his knee 
due to the moratorium.
AXAs policy  terms and conditions explain the moratorium terms:
If you joined  us on moratorium terms, it means  that you wont have cover for treatment  
of medical problems you had in the five years  before  you joined us until:
youve been  a member for two years  in a row, and 
youve had a period  of two years in a row, since  you joined,  that have been 
trouble-free from the condition.
So this means  that if Mr Fs physiotherapy records show that he has had treatment as a 
result of knee pain in the five years before he joined, he wont have cover for his knee pain 
until he has been trouble-free for two years. 
Mr F has provided  medical journals about the recommended treatment and has also 
questioned the qualifications  of AXAs medical  team as he doesnt agree with their 
assessment. AXA has confirmed that it has a wide range of clinicians  in its medical  
department who can review medical  journals and medical information against  the terms and 
conditions of a specific plan. 
AXA has reviewed the information provided by Mr F and has explained why the treatment 
isnt covered. AXAs terms and conditions clearly  set out that they cover  conventional 
treatments. It has also explained that Mr Fs condition may not be covered if it is pre-existing.
Ref: DRN01986023Im satisfied that AXAs explanations have been  clear about the recommended treatment 
and about the further  information they need. If Mr F was to claim for an alternative treatment, 
he would  firstly need to provide further  information for AXA to determine whether his 
condition was pre-existing. 
Mr F also expressed concern about  AXAs delays but having reviewed all the available  
evidence, Im satisfied that it considered the claim promptly.  It reviewed  and asked for further 
information within five days  whilst  assessing the claim. 
Im satisfied that AXA hasnt unfairly  or unreasonably declined Mr Fs claim. It has 
considered the medical journals provided by Mr F. It accepts that external fixators  are used 
to treat tibial torsion  but there is insufficient evidence that the treatment will relieve the 
anterior knee pain.  And so I dont think AXAs decision to decline the claim is wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.  
Shamaila Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0198602