K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Premier 
packaged bank  account in May 2007. Amongst other things he says the benefits were not 
explained to him, he was unaware that he could have a free account  and that he tried to 
downgrade on a number  of occasions  but was unable to do so.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  this complaint  and ultimately,  she didnt think that Lloyds 
had mis-sold the Premier account. Mr S disagreed with this and therefore his complaint was 
referred for a final decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr Ss complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. With this in mind, and having 
considered everything  that Mr S and Lloyds have said and provided,  I dont uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why. 
Firstly I have considered whether Mr S was given a fair choice in taking out his account.
Mr S says he was unaware  that he could have a fee-free  account, but I can see that he had 
held a fee-free  account for a number of years prior to the upgrade.  So I think  he wouldve 
been aware that free accounts were an option  for him. Mr S has not provided any reason or 
recollection of the sale as to why he thought that they were no longer  available to him.
So overall, I think its likely that Mr S agreed  to the upgrade  of his account to a Premier 
account, and he did so knowing he had a choice,  although I understand that he may not 
recall this now, due to the fact it happened over 13 years ago.
This account was recommended  to Mr S. Given this, Lloyds had to ensure that it was a 
broadly reasonable fit for his circumstances at the time. At the time, the Premier account 
cost £25 per month and provided a range of benefits  including  worldwide family travel 
insurance - that included  winter sports cover; comprehensive breakdown cover; mobile  
phone insurance  for up to two handsets; card protection;  Identity theft protection;  and home 
emergency cover. It also provided non-insurance benefits such as a £500 interest-free 
overdraft facility, with reduced interest  rates on balances overdrawn by more  than £500. And 
it provided other features such as airport lounge access and will writing service,  amongst 
other benefits. I can see that Mr S did register mobile phones  under the mobile phone  
insurance policy - including two phones at the same  time. He also made claims on the home 
emergency cover and frequently used his overdraft facility, so wouldve benefited from the 
overdraft benefits  it provided. So in the circumstances, I dont think  that Lloyds 
recommendation was unreasonable overall.
Mr S has said that he held alternative cover elsewhere. But I cant  see why he could not 
have cancelled this cover, if he wished to do so. Mr S has also explained that he was not 
told that he would have to pay an additional  premium to cover  medical  conditions  that he 
Ref: DRN08439102developed whilst holding  the account.  But given  that he did not have these  conditions  at the 
time of the sale, and as the decision to charge  extra to cover  conditions lies with the insurer 
and not Lloyds, I cant see how Lloyds could have  made him aware  of this. All Lloyds was 
required to do was make  it clear that if he did develop medical conditions, he would need to 
declare them  to the insurer  to check whether theyd be covered by the travel Premier 
insurance cover. And I can see that Mr S did do this. So from what  I have seen, it seems  that 
Lloyds did what it needed to in terms of making  him aware of this requirement of the Premier  
travel cover. 
Mr S has also explained  that he was not told that the benefits that the account came with 
could change over time.  The terms and conditions of the account give Lloyds  the provision to 
alter the benefits  that the account came with provided it gave notice of these changes and I 
find it unlikely that Mr S was specifically  told that the benefits would remain the same in 
perpetuity. Additionally Mr S has not said that he was unaware of the changes.  And the 
packaged account operates on a monthly rolling basis. So given this I cant say that Lloyds 
did anything wrong  in relation to this, because  if Mr S was unhappy with any of the changes  
made to the account in the time he held it, he was free to change the type of account or take 
his custom elsewhere.
I accept that Mr S may not have  been  told everything during the sale,  about all of the 
benefits that the account came with. But I have not seen anything specific about Mr Ss 
circumstances, that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing  to it, had he 
been given even more information  about it.
I appreciate that, with the benefit  of hindsight, and perhaps with what Mr S mayve  read 
recently about financial products being  mis-sold, he may now believe that his Premier 
account was mis-sold.  But based  on what Mr S has said, alongside all of the available  
evidence that I have seen, I cant say that its more likely than not that his Premier account 
was mis-sold.
Finally, Mr S has explained that he tried to downgrade his account on a number of 
occasions, but was unable to do so and has said that he was told that he would not be able 
to potentially keep  the same  overdraft facility and would lose the benefits of the account.  But 
I cant see that Lloyds  has received any formal request to downgrade his account. I can see 
a note from Lloyds  in which it says that Mr S enquired about downgrading and he was 
offered a discounted  monthly fee for two months which  he seems to have accepted.
So I cant see that Lloyds  did anything wrong in relation to this aspect of Mr Ss complaint. I 
should remind Mr S that if he does  wish to downgrade his account he would need  to direct 
this back to Lloyds  via the methods  that have already been explained to him.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2021.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08439103
Ref: DRN0843910