K820x#14complaint
Miss G and Mr H complain that Target  Servicing Limited contacted them  eight months after 
theyd sold their property  to say they still owed £2,000 on their Help to Buy (HTB) loan.
background
Miss G and Mr H bought a property  using the HTB scheme, and Target was the 
administrator acting on behalf of The Homes and Communities Agency.
In February 2018  Miss G and Mr H accepted  an offer of £242,000 on their property. Under  
the scheme rules  a valuation had to be carried out so the amount needed to repay the HTB 
loan could be calculated.  The surveyor valued the property at £232,000. Under the scheme  
rules the loan was to be redeemed based on 20% of the property valuation  or sale price,  
whichever was the larger.
Based on the valuation  figure given by the surveyor and the sale price of the property,  
Target wrote  to Miss G and Mr H on 14 March  to say the amount needed  to repay the HTB 
loan was £48,400.
On 15 March Miss G phoned Target  to say the figure was wrong as the valuation was only 
£232,000. Unfortunately  in error  the Target agent accepted this and didnt check the sale 
price of the property and issued a revised redemption  statement asking for £46,400.
On 18 May the sale went through  and £46,400 was sent to Target. 
As the charge hadnt been released Miss G and Mr Hs solicitor was chasing this until on 
17 January 2019  Target wrote to the solicitor to say there was a £2,000  shortfall. The £2,000 
was paid on 22 January 2019  and Miss G and Mr H complained  to Target.
Target apologised that the agent  had amended the figure based  on Miss Gs phone call, and 
paid them £100 compensation  (albeit  that letter was sent to the property address, rather than 
Miss G and Mr Hs new address).
Miss G and Mr H wanted the £2,000 to be written  off. Our investigator thought Targets offer 
was fair. Miss G and Mr H didnt agree and so its been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Miss G and Mr H wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Miss G and Mr H. But although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome.
One thing I need to pick up on before I go any further. Miss G and Mr H have said It is 
rather concerning  that they miscalculated the redemption amount in the first place But 
Ref: DRN04990522Target didnt miscalculate it in the first place, it calculated it correctly. The terms and 
conditions of their HTB loan was that the 20% was calculated based  on the higher of the 
valuation and the sale price. This was again  explained  to Miss G and Mr H in the annual  
statement that was issued in June 2017  which said The loan can be redeemed based  on 
20.00% of the property valuation or sale price, whichever is the largest at the time of 
redemption.
The correct  figure  was set out in the redemption statement issued on 14 March (albeit the 
letter could have  been better  worded to distinguish between  the valuation  and the sale 
price). The wrong  figure  was only given after Miss G phoned up to query it. Target has 
admitted its agent  made a mistake  when they just accepted what Miss G said and didnt 
check the sale price. As Target has already admitted it made  a mistake, I dont need to make 
a finding on that. Whilst  I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business  makes a 
mistake, mistakes do happen. In this case it was simple human error.
Miss G and Mr H always owed that extra £2,000 so theyve not been financially penalised by 
the mistake, and as the sum was always owed there are absolutely  no grounds for me to say 
it shouldnt be charged. Target has accepted  it let Miss G and Mr H down here and has 
apologised for that.
Miss G and Mr H say this could potentially happen to other  customers  in the future. Were 
not the regulator and its not within my remit to tell Target what it should do to prevent 
anything similar happening again. We look at each complaint individually and what may - or 
may not - happen in the future  to other  customers isnt something I can consider here when 
deciding Miss G and Mr Hs complaint  about what happened to them.
Its not our role to fine or punish  a business  and our awards arent punitive. Clearly  no 
amount of compensation can change what happened;  all I can do is consider the impact  of a 
businesss actions on the consumer. Target has offered  £100  and having looked at all the 
evidence  and keeping in mind the level of award we normally  make  I consider that offer 
to be fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  in the sense that I consider Target Servicing 
Limited made a fair payment of compensation in its response to Miss G and Mr Hs 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G 
and Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0499052