K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that Baker Gladstone & York Ltd failed to advise him to sell a 
number of unsuitable investments he held. Hes said that, as a result, hes suffered a 
financial loss.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my revised provisional decision dated                     
26 June 2019.  A copy of this decision is attached  to, and forms part of, this my final decision. 
Briefly, between 2008 and 2009, Mr H was advised by Baker Gladstone  & York Ltd, when 
it was an appointed representative of a network,  to invest part of his self-invested  
personal pension (SIPP) into the following funds:
 Brandeaux Ground Rent Portfolio (Brandeaux )
 Capita Financial Managers  Trojan (Capita )
 EEA Life Settlements  (EEA)
 Matrix Alternative Asset Based 2 (Matrix 2)
 Matrix Asset  Based FD Side Pocket (Matrix 1)
 Matrix Event  Driven Closed End (Matrix  Event )
 Managing Partners British Opportunities (Managing Partners )
According to the regulators register, on 5 January 2010 Baker  Gladstone & York Ltd 
ceased to be an appointed representative  and became  a directly authorised business.
In January 2010, Mr H received a copy of Baker  Gladstone  & York Ltds terms of business 
as a directly authorised business. This set out the services it could provide as his 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) and at what cost.  The services offered  did not 
include an initial review of Mr Hs existing pension provisions.
During 2010 Mr H continued  to be concerned with the performance of the investments 
that were held in his SIPP.
It can be seen from my revised provisional  decision dated 26 June 2019  that Mr H initially 
stated in March  2010  that he wanted  to sell all of the assets in the SIPP. He was asked to 
confirm this instruction  in writing but failed  to do so. 
In May 2010  there were  discussions about the investments in the SIPP and Mr H 
instructed the business to sell his holdings in the three Matrix funds and the Managing  
Partners fund.
On 28 May 2010 the business  informed  Mr H that two of the funds could not be sold and 
that it considered  that the remaining two funds should be retained as they were  growing  
steadily.
In September  2010 Mr H noted the value of his Matrix  investments had fallen and he 
wanted advice  on what he should do.
The business responded saying that there were signs of improvement and it 
recommended that he retain the funds  but review the position in three  months time. Mr H 
agreed to this recommendation. 
Ref: DRN02525312On 1 December  2010 the business was notified  by Mr H that it was no longer his adviser.   
Mr H did not appoint a new adviser until 6 June  2011.
I stated in my initial provisional decision dated 8 February 2018 that the business was 
responsible for the losses that had arisen  between 5 February 2010 and 3 January 2011.  
The initial date was the date that I considered  that the business should have reviewed the 
assets that were  held by Mr H. The end date was fixed as being  one month after the date 
on which Mr H had sacked the business  as his adviser. 
However, Mr H disagreed with the proposal  in the provisional decision to limit the loss to               
3 January 2011. He argued  through his advisers that the initial firm was responsible  for 
the losses until there was an intervening action.
Having considered the arguments I agreed  but I stated that the appointment of a new 
adviser would  not be considered an intervening act. It was only when that adviser 
provided advice  that the intervening act should be deemed to have taken place. The new 
business was therefore liable only from 1 June 2010 when it was employed by Mr H to 
review his investments.   
I noted that that there was no stated  or agreed  requirement for Baker  Gladstone  & York Ltd 
(acting as an IFA) to undertake a review of Mr Hs investments at the point  it became  
directly authorised. If there were, the Terms of Business would refer to the fact that the new 
business was going to carry out a review of the existing investments held by Mr H and then 
set out the fees that would be payable for that review.
I said, in my opinion an adviser  from Baker Gladstone  & York Ltd wouldnt carry out a 
review of Mr Hs complex finances without agreeing in advance the scope and costs of 
such a review. 
As such, in the absence  of an intervening act or omission on behalf of Baker  Gladstone  & 
York Ltd when it became independently authorised, my view was that the responsibility for 
any unsuitable investments would still have  remained with the network. And that complaint 
had been looked at by the FSCS.
But Baker Gladstone & York Ltd did continue to receive trail commission  from Mr Hs 
investments  and there may therefore  have been  the expectation that annual  reviews 
would be held. 
And so I then looked at the actions of Baker Gladstone & York Ltd whilst it was advising
Mr H as an independently authorised  firm. In June 2010, it carried out a complete fact 
finding exercise and an attitude  to risk assessment.
It concluded that Mr H had a cautious to balanced attitude to risk  corresponding to  3 
on a scale between 1 and 7.
Given this recorded attitude to risk, I then considered the investments Mr H held at that 
time. In my opinion,  Baker  Gladstone  & York Ltd should have realised the assets  Mr H 
held were  much higher risk than would have been  suitable for his recorded risk 
tolerance.  I say this because, of the £900,000 held by Mr H in his pension, 18% was 
Ref: DRN02525313invested in hedge funds,  27% was invested  in life settlements and 22% was invested  in 
offshore  property funds.
At that point of time,  however, withdrawals from both the Matrix 1 and Matrix 2 funds 
werent  possible, and so there was nothing that Baker Gladstone & York Ltd (acting as an 
IFA) could do. I understand withdrawals from these two funds are still suspended. 
Therefore, I said I didnt intend to make  an award  in respect of these two funds.
But taking  this into account, my view was that a reasonable course of action at the time 
would have  been to advise Mr H to rebalance his pension  funds to be more in line with 
his attitude  to risk. As I didnt know what investments Mr H would  have selected,  for the 
purposes of calculating whether hes suffered any loss I assumed that he would have  
invested in line with an index, as set out below  and in my revised  provisional  decision.
I considered the failure of Baker Gladstone  & York Ltd to rebalance  Mr Hs holdings in June
2010 to be enough  of an intervention here, such that apportionment of losses  between  
the initial entity, as an appointed representative, and its independently authorised  
successor business, is appropriate.
And whilst FSCS would  be responsible for paying redress (up to its award limit)  on behalf 
of the network  if it found the network  liable for those  losses, as apportioned for the period 
up to 1 June 2010,  my view was that Baker Gladstone & York Ltd acting in its 
independent status should  be responsible  for any losses thereafter.
I then considered whether the losses that had arisen from the Baker Gladstone & York 
Ltds failure to rebalance  Mr Hs pension  funds should be apportioned between it and 
another business, which Mr H subsequently appointed as his adviser.
The business that was subsequently appointed  as his adviser stated that a review of     
Mr Hs investments was carried out on 6 June 2011  and that Mr H was advised to sell his 
investments in the high risk funds that he owned.  As none  of these funds could be sold at 
that time there was nothing that the new adviser appointed in May/June 2011 could 
actually have done  for Mr H and any liabilities for failing to act when it could remain  with 
the Baker Gladstone & York Ltd.
I invited the parties  to provide me with further submissions.
Mr H, through his representatives, disputed my provisional decision not to award any 
costs on top of the award that I made.  Mr H has argued that he has incurred significant 
legal costs in pursuing his claim against  the business and he considers that it is only fair 
that these costs are added to any award.
He also said:
If the new adviser  should  have  been  in a position  to review  this investment  within  1 
month  then Baker Gladstone & York Ltd should  also have  been  in a position  to 
advise  him on what  to do with his investments.  Had Baker  Gladstone  & York Ltd 
reviewed  this in February  2010  then the Matrix  funds  in question  would  have  been  
liquid  and one assumes  a recommendation  to sell would  have  been  made.  
Baker  Gladstone & York Ltd have  provided  no proof  that a Terms  of Business  was 
ever issued  or signed.  He asked  if I could  confirm  if this was for a retail  client.
He did not think  £300  compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused  was 
Ref: DRN02525314fair in all the circumstances  of his complaint.
The business told me it did not have  any further comments  to make following my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says the business could have reviewed  his investments in January  or February  2010  
and if it had done so, it should  have recommended he sell some of the funds that were still 
liquid at that time. I explained that the Terms  of Business letter  sent in January 2010  did not 
suggest the business would review his existing investments. The business  was under no 
obligation to do so. While Mr H says there  is no proof the Terms of Business letter was ever 
issued or signed,  there is no other  evidence to indicate the business gave an undertaking 
that it would  review his investments at that time. 
I remain of the view that after the appointment  of the business a review  of the investments 
held by Mr H would  need to be approved by Mr H due to the costs involved in carrying out 
such a review. Mr H didnt  actually meet with the business to review his situation until May 
2010 and I therefore consider that the business liability  should start from 1 June 2010. 
I have noted that Mr H stated in March 2010  that he told the business that he wanted  to sell 
the investments  that he held. This telephone  instruction  was relayed to the business by his 
assistant and the business asked  for this instruction  to be confirmed in writing.  I agree that 
an instruction to sell such a portfolio would need to be confirmed in writing  before it could be 
actioned. This would be to avoid any issues that might  arise in the future if the instruction  
relayed over the telephone by someone else was not what  Mr H actually wanted. I note that 
Mr H did not confirm his instruction  in writing and it was therefore not actioned by the 
business.
Whilst Mr H appointed new advisers on 6 June 2011 and a new review took place I dont 
think this limits the business liability for Mr Hs losses.  The new adviser has confirmed that it 
did carry out a review of the high risk investments held by the SIPP  but that at that time none 
of the high risk investments held could  be sold. On that basis, it seems  nothing could be 
done at that point to mitigate  Mr Hs position.
Mr H has said £300 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience this matter had caused 
him is not fair in the circumstances and he believes that a higher award  is warranted.
However it is important to remember that I am dealing with the business failure to 
recommend that he rebalance his portfolio in June  2010. At that point some of the funds held 
by Mr H were  already illiquid. It is important to note that the business is not responsible  for 
the initial advice  Mr H received, which was the responsibility of a network which has now 
ceased trading.  Overall,  I think £300  for the distress  caused by failing to recommend a 
rebalancing of the portfolio in June 2010,  along with the compensation for the additional 
losses suffered as a result, is fair and reasonable redress. 
I have considered Mr Hs submissions about the costs hes incurred in pursuing his 
complaint. He said the business sought legal advice and he should  be given the right to seek 
legal advice too. I accept that the business sought  legal representation but that was its 
Ref: DRN02525315choice and it will bear the cost of it. By the same token, it was Mr Hs choice to seek legal 
advice. There was no need for Mr H to obtain legal advice when putting forward  his 
arguments against the business and I do not therefore agree that an award should be made  
against the business for the legal costs that Mr H incurred. 
I therefore consider  that the redress methodology that I set out in my revised provisional 
decision dated 26 June  2019 is still appropriate.
The business has asked  whether the redress due under the new methodology is likely to be 
greater than the redress estimated earlier. I am afraid that because  of the complex  problems 
of determining values  of the investments as at the start date, and at the end date and then 
identifying which funds  could be sold,  and when, means that I cannot predict what the 
answer will be to the questions raised by the business.
redress
To compensate Mr H fairly,  Baker Gladstone & York Ltd must:
Compare the actual performance of Mr Hs investments,  or what  they have  subsequently 
become, with that of the benchmark shown below and pay the difference  between the fair 
value and the actual value of the investments. If the actual  value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation is payable.
Baker Gladstone  & York Ltd should also pay interest as set out below.
If theres a loss, Baker Gladstone & York Ltd should  pay such amount as may be 
required into Mr Hs pension plan, allowing for any available tax relief and/or costs,  to 
increase the pension plan value  by the total amount  of the compensation and any 
interest.
The payment should  not be paid into the pension if it would conflict  with any existing  
protection or allowance.  If the payment into the pension  is not possible or there are any 
protection/allowance  implications, it should  be paid directly  to Mr H as a lump  sum, after 
making an appropriate deduction for income tax. That payment would otherwise had 
been used  to provide  pension benefits,  25% of which  would  have been  tax free. The rest 
would  have  been taxed according to Mr Hs likely tax paying status in retirement.
So, for example, if Mr H could have obtained  maximum  tax free cash from that amount 
and would be a basic rate tax payer,  the total deduction to the payment  should be 15% 
(25% tax free and basic rate tax on the remaining 75%).  If Mr H would be a higher rate tax 
payer that deduction rises to 30%. For the sake of this decision,  I have assumed that Mr H 
would be a basic rate tax payer in retirement.
Investment name
Status Benchmark From (start 
date )To (end date) Additional
Interest
Ref: DRN02525316All funds  or 
what they 
have  
subsequently  
become - 
excluding the 
Matrix 1 and 
Matrix 2
fundsVaried for half the 
investment: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other  
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bonds1/6/2010 date of 
final 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision  to 
date of 
settlement (if
compensation is 
not paid within
28 days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what the investment  would have  been worth at the end date had it 
produced a return  using  the benchmark.
To arrive  at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds  as the benchmark, Baker
Gladstone & York Ltd should  use the monthly  average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with
12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England.  The rate for each 
month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be 
applied to the investment on an annually  compounded basis.
Any additional sum that Mr H paid into the investment should be added  to the fair value
calculation at the point  it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment 
out of the investment  should be deducted  from the fair value calculation  at the point it was 
actually paid so it ceases  to accrue  any return in the calculation  from that point  on.
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I 
will accept  if Baker Gladstone totals all those payments and deducts that figure  at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investments. This is complicated where 
an investment is illiquid (meaning  it could  not be readily sold on the open market) as 
may be the case here. So, the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. Baker Gladstone & York Ltd should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out 
above.
If Baker Gladstone & York Ltd is unable to purchase the investment, the actual  value should
be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Baker Gladstone  & York Ltd may ask 
that Mr H provide an undertaking to pay Baker Gladstone & York Ltd any amount they 
may receive  from the investment(s)  in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax 
and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension  plan.  Baker 
Gladstone & York Ltd will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Ref: DRN02525317In addition I direct that Baker  Gladstone & York Ltd pay Mr H £300  for the distress and 
inconvenience that it has caused.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint against  
Baker Gladstone  & York Ltd and I direct  that it pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02525318COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED 26 JUNE 2019
complaint
Mr H has complained that Baker  Gladstone & York Ltd failed to advise him to sell a number  of 
unsuitable investments he held. Hes said that, as a result, hes suffered  a financial loss.
background
The background  to this complaint was set out in my original provisional decision dated  9
February 2018. Briefly, between 2008 and 2009, Mr H was advised by Baker Gladstone & York 
Ltd, when it was an appointed representative of another business, to invest  part of his self-
invested personal  pension (SIPP) into the following funds:
 Brandeaux Ground Rent Portfolio  (Brandeaux )
 Capita Financial Managers Trojan (Capita )
 EEA Life Settlements (EEA)
 Matrix Alternative  Asset  Based  2 (Matrix  2)
 Matrix Asset  Based FD Side Pocket (Matrix 1)
 Matrix Event  Driven Closed End (Matrix  Event )
 Managing  Partners British Opportunities (Managing Partners )
According to the regulators register, on 5 January 2010  Baker  Gladstone ceased to be an 
appointed representative and became a directly authorised business.
In January 2010, Mr H received a copy of Baker Gladstone  & York Ltds terms of business. This 
set out the services it could provide as his adviser, and at what cost.  This did not include  an initial 
review of Mr Hs existing  pension provisions.
On 18 March 2010, Mr H informed  Baker Gladstone & York Ltd via his personal assistant  that he 
wished to convert  all his SIPP investments into cash. Mr H said that he would then self-manage his 
SIPP. Baker Gladstone asked Mr H to give his instructions directly  (rather than via his personal 
assistant) and also in writing. The response was that Mr H would revert to the business  when he had 
made his decision.
On 1 May 2010, there was a meeting between the business and Mr H, at which a fact find was 
completed. This showed that Mr H was earning  £300,000 per year and owned  properties  worth 
£3.4 million, subject to a mortgage of £825,000.
Mr H was recorded  as having pension  arrangements worth about £900,000.
On 27 May 2010, Mr H instructed Baker Gladstone & York Ltd to sell his holdings in the three 
Matrix funds  and the Managing Partners fund.
On 28 May 2010, Baker  Gladstone & York Ltd responded that the Matrix 1 and Matrix 2 funds could 
not be sold at that time as the funds were frozen. It also suggested keeping the other two funds  as 
they had performed well. One had increased in value  by 10% over the past twelve months and the 
other Managing  Partners  fund had increased  by over 7% over the past year
The email to Mr H on 28 May 2010 said the following:
 To conclude,  I am sorry to say that at present it is not possible to sell the Asset based  funds but we 
can sell the other two although I dont think it would make  sense as they are both growing steadily .
The funds that could be sold were retained in the hope of further increases in value.
Ref: DRN02525319In June 2010, Mr H met Baker Gladstone & York Ltd to review his SIPP. Following  this 
meeting, it was decided that he should remain  invested  in the Matrix funds. His risk profile 
was recorded as cautious to balanced, which  was  3 on a scale  between 1 and 7 .
In an email  to the business  dated 8 September 2010, Mr H noted  the value  of three Matrix  
investments he held had fallen by about £8,500 to around £147,000. Mr H stated that he had heard 
nothing from Baker Gladstone & York Ltd since June and he wanted to know what the business  
recommended he should do.
On 13 September 2010,  Baker  Gladstone & York Ltd responded, saying  that there were signs that 
things had started  to improve  and the business  recommended  that Mr H retain the Matrix funds and 
look at the position  again  in three months - in December  2010.  Mr H agreed to this recommendation.
In November  2010, Mr H instructed Baker Gladstone & York Ltd to sell the Matrix Event
Driven Closed End fund.
On 1 December 2010, Mr H ended  the advising  relationship with Baker Gladstone & York
Ltd.
Mr H initially  complained about the suitability of the original advice to invest  in the funds that he 
had received  from Baker Gladstone & York Ltd whilst it was an appointed representative  of a 
business now no longer  trading and unable  to meet  its liabilities. That complaint against Baker  
Gladstone & York Ltd was referred to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Mr H is aware that his Service can only look at the advice given from the date when Baker  
Gladstone & York Ltd became directly  authorised.  But Mr H has said that he should have been 
advised to sell these funds  whilst there was still an opportunity to sell them.
Mr H has also suggested  that each fund hed invested in on the advice of Baker Gladstone & 
York Ltd (as an appointed  representative of another business) should be looked  at as a 
separate complaint.  But the adjudicators explained  to Mr H that, since advice to then either  
hold or sell those funds  would  have  been  given at the same time - for all funds - the 
investments should be looked at under one complaint .
Our adjudicator was nevertheless of the view that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said that, 
given Mr Hs risk profile, the funds he had invested in were unsuitable  and that a review of his 
investments by Baker  Gladstone & York Ltd in its directly authorized  form would  have revealed  
this.
However, there  then followed issues in determining  whether Mr H had actually suffered a 
financial loss. There was an extensive  exchange of correspondence  in which each party  put 
forward its views about the date on which the advice  to sell should have been given. There  were  
also difficulties in obtaining valuations  from the SIPP provider.
In his latest assessment, the adjudicator  set out his view that Mr H had not suffered a financial 
loss. This was because the money he eventually  received  from his funds  was, in total, more  than 
the amount he would have  received had he sold them in 2010.
Mr H and his representative didnt  agree with this. They said the following:
The appropriate  course of action should be to calculate the loss from the date Baker 
Gladstone & York Ltd became directly  authorised.
It was the adjudicators  view that the end date for the loss calculation ought to be 3 
Ref: DRN025253110January 2011   and that Mr Hs new adviser  would  or ought to have  reviewed the 
investments  by December 2010 and given suitable advice on those  investments  Baker 
Gladstone & York Ltds liability would  therefore  reasonably  end on 3 January  2011.  But if 
this principle was correct, then the starting point for the loss calculation  should be 
February 2010, rather  than May 2010.
The loss calculations sought to offset  any gains  on other investments  against
Mr Hs losses.  The adjudicator had previously  said that this complaint should
be looked at as two separate  ones. This was on the basis that Baker  Gladstone
& York Ltd failed to advise Mr H to sell specific  funds on two different  dates. If the 
matter had been looked at under separate complaints,  those gains would not have 
been offset by any losses. There was in any case  no reason why gains should be offset  
by losses.  It would  be unjust  for Baker Gladstone & York Ltd to benefit from the fact that 
their unsuitable advice had led to gains  on some unsuitable products.
Mr H had suffered a very large loss on his investments in Matrix  1 and Matrix 2 funds that 
were made on the advice  of Baker Gladstone whilst it was an appointed representative  of a 
network. While  the Financial  Ombudsman Service might not be prepared  to uphold the 
complaint in respect of these  funds, there was no reason why these  losses should not be 
considered when  looking  at the total loss/gain.
An advisers liability for unsuitable advice shouldnt cease  upon the termination of their 
service. The correct approach is that the old adviser remains responsible, but they may 
have a claim against the new adviser.
Mr H did not appoint  a new adviser until May/June  2011. He didnt receive any 
advice before then.
Mr H should also receive a substantial award for the distress and inconvenience  caused 
to him, as well as towards his legal  costs.
Baker Gladstone & York Ltd, for its part, said there was no conclusive evidence  that the Matrix 
Event fund could not be sold after Mr H changed advisers. Unless  there was clear evidence  
to the contrary, it seemed reasonable to assume it could have been sold.  The adjudicator  had 
previously said that the fund could have been sold in February 2012.  There seemed no 
grounds for now saying otherwise.
my previous  provisional decision
In my previous  provisional  decision,  I said I was minded  to uphold the complaint against Baker  
Gladstone & York Ltd - but only in part. I proposed that the redress should  be limited to 3 January 
2011, when I considered that a new adviser  should have been  in a position  to advise  Mr H on what  
to do with his investments.
Mr Hs representative disagreed with the prospect of limiting the period of liability to that
date. It believed that the liability for the failure to advise on holding or selling  the investments 
remained with Baker Gladstone & York Ltd and that relevant case law supported that position.  It 
argued that it was for the firm that failed  to fulfil its requirements to meet  the redress due - and to then 
seek redress  from any subsequent advising firm(s)  if it wished.
Mr Hs representative also reasserted that Mr Hs legal costs should be awarded in any final 
decision.
Ref: DRN025253111my revised  provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. In particular,  Ive considered in detail  the submissions  
that have  been made by both parties after the issue of my previous  provisional  decision.
The role and responsibilities  of Baker Gladstone  & York Ltd
In this case, the original advice that was given  to Mr H was given by an appointed representative of a 
network thats no longer  trading. The liability  for that would therefore  fall to the FSCS, as they are 
dealing with the claims against the appointed representative of the network that is unable to meet 
those claims.
Ive then considered the role and obligations of Baker Gladstone & York Ltd, acting as an 
independent financial  adviser.
Ive started with the detailed Terms of Business note that was provided to Mr H at the time it took 
over as his adviser. The copy  of this document which  has been provided isnt signed, but is dated 
January 2010.
This says that if the firm provides advice it will receive  a payment either by way of a commission or 
by way of a fee - and the notes set out the commission rates and the hourly  rates  for the different  
categories of staff.
But there was no stated  or agreed requirement  for Baker Gladstone & York Ltd to undertake a 
review of Mr Hs investments at the point  it became  directly  authorised. If there were, the Terms of 
Business would refer to the fact that the new business was going  to carry out a review of the existing 
investments held by Mr H and then set out the fees that would be payable for that review.
My current view is that an adviser wouldnt  carry out a review  of a new clients finances without 
agreeing the scope  and costs of such a review. In my opinion, the costs of such  a review  could be 
significant, given the investments held by Mr H.
As such,  in the absence of an intervening act or omission on behalf  of Baker Gladstone & York Ltd 
when it became independently authorised, my view is that the responsibility  for any unsuitable  
investments would still have remained with the network. And that complaint has been looked  at by 
the FSCS.
But Baker Gladstone & York Ltd did continue  to receive  trail commission from Mr Hs investments  
and there  may therefore have been the expectation that annual reviews  would be held. And a review 
in any case happened  in June 2010.
And so Ive then looked at the actions of Baker Gladstone & York Ltd whilst it was advising
Mr H as an independently authorised firm. In June 2010, it carried  out a complete  fact finding 
exercise and an attitude to risk assessment.
It concluded that he had a cautious to balanced  attitude  to risk  corresponding to  3 on a scale 
between 1 and 7.
Given this recorded attitude to risk, Ive then considered the investments Mr H held at that time. In 
my opinion, Baker Gladstone & York Ltd should have  realised  the assets     Mr H held were much 
higher risk than would have  been suitable  for his recorded risk tolerance.  I say this because, of 
the £900,000 held by Mr H in his pension, 18% was invested in hedge funds, 27% was invested 
in life settlements  and 22% was invested  in offshore  property funds.
Ref: DRN025253112At that point,  however, withdrawals from both the Matrix 1 and Matrix  2 funds werent  possible, 
and so there was nothing that Baker  Gladstone  & York Ltd could do. I understand  withdrawals in 
these two funds are still suspended.  Therefore,  I dont intend to make an award in respect of these 
two funds.
But taking this into account, my view is that a reasonable course of action at the time would have 
been to advise Mr H to rebalance his pension  funds to be more in line with his attitude to risk. As I 
dont know what investments Mr H would have selected, for the purposes of calculating whether  
hes suffered any loss Ive assumed that he would have  invested in line with an index, as set out 
below.
I consider the failure of Baker Gladstone & York Ltd to rebalance Mr Hs holdings  in June
2010 to be enough of an intervention  here,  such  that apportionment of losses between  the initial 
entity, as an appointed representative, and its independently authorised  successor  business, is 
appropriate.
And whilst  FSCS would be responsible for paying losses (up to its award limit) on behalf of the 
network if it found it liable for those losses, as apportioned for the period up to 1 June 2010, my 
view is that Baker Gladstone & York Ltd should  be responsible for any losses thereafter.
The role of a further business and apportionment  issues
Ive then considered  whether any loss arising  from Baker  Gladstone & York Ltds  failure  to 
rebalance Mr Hs pension funds should be apportioned  between it and a successor  business. Mr 
H ended his professional relationship with Baker Gladstone & York Ltd on 1
December 2010. In my previous provisional  decision, I said that the complaint should be upheld 
and I set out a method of determining redress. This assumed  that the liability  for Baker 
Gladstone & York Ltd should be limited  to 3 January  2011 as this was when, in my opinion, a 
new adviser should have been appointed and would  have been able by then to sell the holdings 
 which could  at that time be sold - for Mr H.
I do still consider  it entirely possible that, when the new IFA was appointed in May/June
2011, it would have  sought to review the assets held in the SIPP at that date.
But I cant know this for certain, as theres no complaint with this service  against that business. 
And so its difficult in such circumstances to conclude that theres been activity,  or lack thereof, 
which might mean that further apportionment is appropriate in this instance.
And so my current view is that there should be no further apportionment between it and any further  
business. If Baker  Gladstone & York Ltd considers that it may have a claim against any further 
business, it may decide to pursue this separately.
Legal costs incurred
Finally, Ive noted the request that Mr H be awarded the cost of seeking legal advice and 
representation in this matter. But although I accept that there  have been some  complexities  
relating to the case, Im not of the view that this would  have necessitated the involvement of legal 
representation.
It was of course  open  to Mr H to seek legal advice,  but I dont consider that, in this 
instance, Baker Gladstone  & York Ltd should bear that cost.
Summary
Ref: DRN025253113On a fair and reasonable basis, my provisional  conclusions are that, for the reasons set out 
above, Baker Gladstone & York Ltd should have rebalanced Mr Hs portfolio in June 2010.  That 
failure to do so may have caused Mr H financial  loss, for which Baker  Gladstone & York Ltd 
should compensate him. I set out below how I consider this should be formatted.
fair compensation
In assessing  what would be fair compensation,  I consider that my aim should be to put Mr H as 
close to the position he would probably  now be in if he had been advised to rebalance  his 
portfolio.
I think  Mr H would  have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would  have 
done, but Im satisfied  that what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable,  given Mr Hs circumstances 
and objectives - including his attitude to risk.
what should the business  do?
To compensate Mr H fairly,  Baker Gladstone & York Ltd should:
Compare the actual performance of Mr Hs investments, or what  they have  
subsequently become, with that of the benchmark  shown  below  and pay the difference  
between the fair value and the actual value  of the investments. If the actual  value is 
greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Baker Gladstone & York Ltd should also pay interest as set out below.
If theres a loss, Baker Gladstone & York Ltd should pay such amount as may be required into 
Mr Hs pension plan, allowing for any available  tax relief and/or costs, to increase the pension 
plan value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.
The payment should not be paid into the pension  if it would conflict  with any existing  
protection or allowance.
If the payment into the pension is not possible or there are any protection/allowance  
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum,  after making  an appropriate 
deduction for income tax. That payment would otherwise had been  used  to provide pension 
benefits, 25% of which would have been tax free. The rest would  have been taxed according 
to Mr Hs likely tax paying status  in retirement.
So, for example, if Mr H could have obtained maximum  tax free cash  from that amount and would  
be a basic rate tax payer, the total deduction to the payment  should  be 15% (25% tax free and 
basic rate tax on the remaining 75%). If Mr H would be a higher rate tax payer  that deduction  rises 
to 30%. For the sake of this provisional decision, Ive assumed that Mr H would be a basic rate tax 
payer in retirement.
Investment name
Status Benchmark From (start 
date )To (end date) Additional
Interest
Ref: DRN025253114All funds  or 
what they have  
subsequently  
become - 
excluding the 
Matrix 1 and 
Matrix 2
fundsVaried for half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return  
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed rate 
bonds1/6/2010 date of 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date 
of settlement (if
compensation is 
not paid within
28 days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means the actual  amount paid or payable  from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment  would  have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using  the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Baker
Gladstone & York Ltd should use the monthly average rate for the fixed  rate bonds with
12 to 17 months maturity  as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is 
that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates  should be applied  to the 
investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional  sum that Mr H paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value
calculation at the point  it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal,  income or other payment  out of the investment should  be deducted
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on.
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept 
if Baker Gladstone totals all those payments and deducts that figure  at the end instead of 
deducting periodically.
It may be difficult to find the actual  value of the investments. This is complicated where  an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily  sold on the open market) as may be the 
case here. So, the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. Baker 
Gladstone & York Ltd should take ownership  of the illiquid investment by paying  a commercial 
value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the 
compensation and the balance  paid as I set out above.
If Baker  Gladstone & York Ltd is unable to purchase  the investment, the actual value should
be assumed to be nil for the purpose  of calculation. Baker Gladstone & York Ltd may ask that Mr H 
provide an undertaking  to pay Baker Gladstone & York Ltd any amount they may receive from the 
investment(s) in the future.  That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges  that would  be 
incurred on drawing  the receipt from the pension  plan. Baker Gladstone & York Ltd will need to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
Ref: DRN025253115additional information
It is not currently certain whether the Capita or Matrix Event funds  could have been sold while 
Mr H was a client of Baker  Gladstone & York Ltd. As such, if they could  not have been sold 
between 1 June 2010 and the date the relationship  between  Mr H and Baker  Gladstone & York 
Ltd ended, they should not be included  in the redress calculation.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method  of compensation because:
Mr H wanted capital growth with a cautious to balanced risk to his capital.
 The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable  return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index (prior to 1 March
2017, the FTSE  WMA  Stock Market Income total return index)  is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
 I consider that Mr Hs risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr H into that position. It does not mean that Mr H would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker  
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable  compromise  that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr H could  have obtained from investments  suited to his objective and risk 
attitude.
Mr H has not yet used  his pension  plan to purchase an annuity.
The additional interest is for being deprived  of the use of any compensation  money since the end 
date.
Distress and Inconvenience and fees
My view is that Mr H has suffered  distress and inconvenience by way of inappropriate  fund 
investment. In particular, the illiquidity of particular funds, a status  which in my mind  would  be 
unlikely to have occurred in the type of investment  to which he should have been exposed, will 
inevitably have caused concern and worry. In the circumstances, Im minded to direct that Baker  
Gladstone & York Ltd pay Mr H a further  £300  for this.
my revised  provisional  decision
Im currently  minded to uphold this complaint against Baker Gladstone & York Ltd and my 
provisional decision  is that it should pay any redress due as set out above.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0252531