K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline most of his claim under 
his No/Inadequate Covenants for Repair  policy. 
background
Mr W owns one of four flats in a converted building under an underlease dated September  
1977. The under  lease  was sold to him with a term of 997 years. His neighbour is the long 
leaseholder of the whole property as well as holding  an under lease for one of the other flats 
in the building. A disagreement arose between the two of them in or around 2008  in relation 
to alleged disrepair  of and repairs to Mr Ws flat and the building, and who was responsible 
for the costs incurred  for associated  works. Mr W noted that the covenants on his lease were  
inadequate (presumably  to enforce repair and maintenance) and it was this that led him to 
claim under his policy.
Mr W had taken out a No/Inadequate Covenants  for Repair policy with Aviva in November 
2005, so, following the dispute  with his neighbour, he made a claim in or around 2015 in 
respect of damage to the flat caused, in his view, as a result of inadequate repair  covenants 
in the lease. Mr W was unhappy  with the outcome of that claim and Avivas settlement of it 
so he complained to this service. We issued our findings in January  2016.  Mr W wanted a 
valuation report done on his flat (to assess the loss of value due to the damage  it had 
suffered) and for it to be jointly commissioned by himself and Aviva. 
That valuation was undertaken  in June 2016 but there then followed a lengthy dispute 
between Aviva and Mr W about what information and comments  Aviva/its  solicitor was 
further proposing  to provide to the surveyor in respect  of the complex  legal disputes that 
were simultaneously  going on between Mr W and the long leaseholder. The matter  was 
referred back to this service and a way forward proposed. A letter (the contents  of which  had 
been jointly agreed) instructing the surveyor to revisit was sent over Christmas  2016. The 
surveyor revisited the property in the spring  of 2017  and provided an updated valuation. 
Shortly after, Mr W then made a new claim  under  the policy  that he was unable to carry out 
the repairs and maintenance needed because he didnt own the alterations that had been 
made to the property  (presumably because theyd been made before his purchase of the 
under lease). He listed 7 areas  of damage  claimed for. Mr W also said he was claiming for 
historic damage to the original structure  of the flat on the basis that he could be obliged  by 
the landlord (presumably  under the lease)  to reinstate the property  to its original 1977 layout. 
At the end of August  2017, Avivas solicitors  responded to the claim on its behalf and said 
that the landlord had made  no such claim and was, in any event, time-barred from bringing 
one. Aviva said it had been unable to identify any requirement in the lease requiring Mr W to 
reinstate the property  in the event  of unauthorised alterations.  And it said that (under  the 
terms of the lease)  he was entitled to carry out repairs,  maintenance, alterations or additions 
to the flat. 
Aviva went  on to say that 5 out of the 7 items of damage Mr W had claimed for werent 
covered by the policy because the reason for the lack of maintenance and repair in respect 
of each of them wasnt due to no/inadequate covenants (as required by the policy). In 
respect of another of the items  of damage, Aviva said the lease contained an adequate  
covenant in this respect  so the policy did not engage. Finally in relation  to the seventh item 
(damage to the bathroom  window), Aviva  noted that the lease was silent  on who was 
Ref: DRN03203412responsible for the repair (this damage  being  to a later addition to the property) so it 
accepted there was a valid claim for this item.  It asked Mr W to get two quotes for repair.  
Mr W responded providing extensive  new material  and information such that Aviva  thought 
new claims were  being made.  In mid-September  2017, Avivas solicitors proposed a site 
meeting with Mr W so the new information  could be reviewed. That meeting took place at the 
end of November  2017. Following that meeting, Avivas solicitors  produced  a schedule 
bringing everything together as a result of which there were then 8 claims. Mr W provided 
detailed input on the schedule and in January  2018  provided his own substantially amended 
schedule which revised the earlier one significantly and added another claim bringing the 
total number of claims to nine. 
Avivas solicitor reviewed the nine claims at the end of January  2018. It said the policy didnt  
cover the two recently added ones, its position  on six out of the seven claims made by Mr W 
in the summer  of 2017 remained unaltered and it continued to accept  the claim about the 
bathroom window  (referred  to as claim no.5). 
Unhappy with Avivas  response,  Mr W complained. He said the landlord wouldnt pay for the 
repairs because they werent covered by the lease. He said the lease needed to be 
amended and clarified to reflect various historic  additions  and removal  of walls.  Mr W said he 
wanted Aviva to reconsider all nine claims under the policy  and for a valuation to be carried 
out. Aviva  looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt change its mind.  
So Mr W complained to this service. Mr W told our investigator that his tenant had moved 
out due to the state of disrepair the flat had fallen into. He said it remained the case  that the 
ongoing dispute he had with the landlord regarding  the alleged breaches  of the lease and 
disrepair issues meant hed been  unable  to undertake repairs to the property, so damp  was 
now evident. Mr W said he saw no prospect of being  able to re-let the property in the near 
future and not before  the dispute  with the landlord  was resolved. He said that an arbitration  
hearing was fixed  (there  being an arbitration  clause in the lease for the purpose of resolving 
disputes between  the parties) for the near future. Finally Mr W told our investigator he 
wanted Aviva to agree that the property should  be jointly valued in its current state of 
disrepair based  on the original layout  and disregarding the extension.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld.  He 
thought Aviva had treated Mr W fairly  so didnt recommend that it do anymore. Mr W 
disagreed with our investigators findings, remaining of the view that the lease  didnt provide 
suitable covenants for the issues he was complaining about so the policy should engage.
In July 2019, Mr Ws claim against  the landlord  in relation to the disrepair of, and repairs to, 
the flat and building and the associated costs was dismissed by the arbitrator. The landlords  
counterclaim in relation to whether Mr W was in breach of certain repairing and similar 
covenants and conditions under the lease  was upheld. Mr W said to our investigator that the 
arbitrators reasoning  had a bearing on the various inadequacies of the lease with regard to 
repair.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN03203413Ive set out as best I can, from the information  provided, my understanding of the 
background to this complaint. But it is clear  to me from reviewing the relatively limited 
evidence provided,  that the issues Mr W faces  are complex and multifaceted.  Indeed it 
appears to me that this service wouldnt  be able to look at many aspects of the disputes he 
is involved in. 
So my consideration  of this complaint solely pertains  to Avivas decision  in early 2018 in 
relation to the nine claims Mr W had raised under his no/inadequate covenants policy. Aviva 
issued its final response on Mr Ws complaint about  its claims decision in mid-February 2018 
so I can only look here at matters up to and including  that point. Any issues that have arisen 
since (for example in relation to the outcome of the arbitration hearing and its possible 
bearing on whether  the claims are covered or not) arent something  I can look at within the 
context of this complaint.  Those would be new issues that must first be referred to Aviva to 
look at. 
I have to decide whether Aviva has treated Mr W fairly in the way it assessed  his claim and I 
have to say, having reviewed the evidence, that I think it has. 
The policy provides the following type of cover: 
in the event  of damage to or destruction of the property and/or the building of which the 
property forms part (and the common parts) and/or other properties in the building
a.Directly attributable to lack of maintenance and repair and 
b.By reason of one or more of the matters referred to in Nature of Defect in the schedule
Nature of Defect is defined as: 
Lack of or inadequate  covenants in the lease of the property for
a-maintenance and repair of the structure, foundations, main  walls, roof, common parts,  
common services  and grounds ("the common  parts") and/or unsatisfactory legal rights  
for access for repairs,  services,  support,  shelter  and protection
b-enforcement  of these provisions by the landlord or management company at the request 
of the lessee and/or for the landlord to carry out the obligations of the management 
company should it fail to do so
Aviva considered Mr Ws nine claims against  this cover. And in order  for all his claims to be 
successful he would  need to satisfy the criteria set by the policy,  namely that the damage  
has arisen as a result of a lack of covenants for repair of the structure, foundations, main 
walls, and roof. 
Having reviewed the evidence, Im unable to agree with Mr W that the policy  covers  him for 
the damage hes claimed for (except in respect of claim No.5). The main issues  appear  to be 
in relation to an ongoing  dispute with the landlord in relation to the lease of the property and 
repairs Mr W wishes to be conducted. Ive reviewed  all the heads of damage raised by Mr W 
to Aviva  and the comments made  on each head  by both parties  and, having done so, I 
think that Aviva has addressed each one in detail  and assessed each claim fairly against the 
terms of the lease. Whilst I appreciate that Mr W thinks that the lease  doesnt  provide 
suitable covenants to repair it remains his responsibility to demonstrate that the damage  hes 
claiming for is caused by the lack of such covenants. As I dont think hes been able to show 
Ref: DRN03203414this to be the case (except with regard to claim No.5),  I cant fairly and reasonably require  
Aviva to do anymore. 
I can see that many of Mr Ws comments made  on each of the nine claims in January 2018 
relate to matters and disputes that may arise in the future. But the policy doesnt engage in 
such circumstances; and I can see that Aviva has said in relation to several of the claims 
that if what Mr W fears will happen  does actually happen, then there is a separate  policy  that 
will respond in those  circumstances. But I cant fairly  require Aviva  to take steps  in relation to 
circumstances that are yet to occur when the policy in question doesnt cover  that. That 
wouldnt be reasonable. 
Ive noted that Mr W has said that the covenants in the lease dont allow  him to repair  the 
original parts  of the property because they werent  included in the plan on the lease because 
walls that were on that plan were  subsequently removed. And that he can only repair  the 
property if the landlord agrees to amend the lease plan in light of the historic changes  carried 
out since the under lease was signed.  But these arent issues  for this service. We can only 
look at complaints about regulated activities carried out by regulated financial businesses. 
This service has no jurisdiction to look into issues relating  to property leases. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.  
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0320341