K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma)  lent to him 
in an irresponsible  manner.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 6th December 2019, where I concluded  that I was minded 
to not uphold Mr Ss complaint. I have attached this to the end of my findings  as it forms part 
of my final decision.
In summary,  I found:
Mr S took out three instalment loans from Satsuma between February 2015 and April 
2018.
I concluded that it would not have been  proportionate  for Satsuma to carry out the type 
of checks that would have shown that the repayments for loan 1 were  not sustainable.
There was a gap of 3 years between loan 1 and loan 2 and so I concluded that a new 
lending relationship had started  from commencement of loan 2 in February 2018. 
I could see that Mr Ss finances were under pressure,  in particular when he took out loan 
3. But I didnt think Satsuma would have necessarily seen that this was the case, and it 
was entitled to rely on the information  at this point,  that Mr S had told it. There  was also 
nothing that I felt would have led Satsuma  to do more, when it gathered  information  
within its credit checks.
I concluded that I was minded to not uphold Mr Ss complaint and invited comments on 
this from both parties. 
my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have not provided  any further  information for me to consider.
As neither party has raised any further  points,  I see no reason to depart from my conclusion  
given within  the provisional decision.  So I conclude that Satsuma hasnt done anything  
wrong in giving the loans  to Mr S and I do not uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and I do not make any award  
against Provident Personal Credit  Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02300642Copy Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr S complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr S took three instalment  loans from Satsuma. There was a gap of over 3 years from when Mr S 
borrowed loan 1 and took out loan 2. Loans 2 and 3 have a balance outstanding.
Loan Date  taken Date repaid Instalments AmountHighest monthly 
Repayment
1 04/02/2015 01/06/2015 39 weekly 100 22.50
2 23/02/2018 outstanding 12 monthly 300 49.80
3 13/04/2018 outstanding 12 monthly 1000 166.00
Mr Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the checks  Satsuma 
had done before giving Mr S loan 3 should have caused the lender to consider that Mr S was having 
problems managing  his money. So he didnt  think it had been right for Satsuma to agree loan 3 and 
he asked the lender to pay Mr S some compensation. 
Satsuma didnt agree  with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Satsuma needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr S could  repay  the 
loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably  have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for a consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to meet  a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a 
customer has been  given  loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN02300643I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Satsuma  was required to establish whether Mr 
S could sustainably  repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S applied for his first loan with Satsuma  in February 2015.  It was for a relatively small amount and 
this was the first time he had approached  Satsuma for credit. Satsuma  says it asked him for details  
about his income, expenditure  and it did a credit check. So given the weekly repayment amounts, 
what was apparent about  Mr Ss circumstances at the time, and that this was his first request with the 
business, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny  to ask him for the amount  of 
information that would be needed to show the lending  was unsustainable before agreeing  the first 
loan.
There was a gap of around 3 years  before Mr S asked Satsuma for another loan. So due to the time 
that has passed,  I consider this to be a new lending relationship between them. When  Mr S did 
approach Satsuma in 2018, it did a number of checks. It asked him for details of his income and his 
normal expenditure. It gathered data from credit reference agencies about other credit repayments 
that Mr S would need to make over the coming  months. And it then used this information to calculate 
how much  disposable income Mr S had left over each month. Satsuma also used the credit reference 
agency checks  to gather some more  information about Mr Ss financial  situation at the time he asked 
for loan 2 and loan 3.
I can see from the information Mr S has provided to our service that his finances were  under  
significant pressure  at the time he applied  for loan 3 in particular. But that wasnt picked up by the 
credit check information that was given  to Satsuma. And it wasnt something that Mr S told Satsuma  
at the time he applied for loan 2 or 3 either. I dont think there was any reason for Satsuma to doubt  
the information Mr S had provided.
The repayments that Mr S had agreed to make on loans 2 and 3 were relatively  modest compared  to 
the disposable income that hed declared to Satsuma.  And the repayments appeared to be easily  
affordable. So given these  repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ss circumstances at the 
time he applied for loans  2 and 3, and his lack of borrowing history  with the lender,  I dont think it 
wouldve been  proportionate for Satsuma to ask him for the amount of information that would  be needed  
to show  the lending was unsustainable. 
So I dont currently think Satsuma was wrong to give loans  2 and 3 to Mr S either.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0230064