K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing 
with the start of her mortgage, and caused  her financial loss. She wants compensation.
background
Miss C applied to Barclays for a new mortgage  through a broker.  She said that Barclays  
caused delays,  which led to her suffering financial loss. Miss C had a Help to Buy loan. The 
broker had disclosed that the loan existed  within the application and said Barclays  had told 
him in a web chat that any product could be selected. The broker  also told Miss C that 
Barclays shouldve said earlier than an unsuitable product had been applied  for. Miss C said 
that there  was about a six week delay in completing  the remortgage and shed had to pay 
extra interest.
Miss C complained to Barclays.  It said when  the broker made the application, it didnt explain 
that the Help to Buy loan was a secondary government charge and had to remain  in place. 
Barclays said that it wasnt  told about this until just before  the new mortgage was due to be 
in place. It needed to put extra agreements in place to go ahead  with the mortgage, which 
took time  Barclays said that the broker shouldve  given  this information much  earlier  to 
avoid delays. It accepted that when the secondary loan was identified,  its staff incorrectly  
told the broker that a different product was needed, but this was corrected within  an hour.  
Barclays also accepted  that it didnt contact  Miss C about the situation and didnt respond 
positively when she first complained. It paid £121.51  for one months additional interest paid 
by Miss C and £200 compensation  for her trouble and upset.
Miss C complained to us, and said that she thought Barclays should pay all of the extra 
interest shed paid and more compensation.  Barclays provided comments  from the solicitors 
involved, who said that due to the number of parties involved and complexity of what  needed  
to be done, it wouldnt  ever have been  possible to complete by 1 April 2019 as Miss C 
wished, and the earliest possible  date wouldve been the date the mortgage did complete  
10 May 2019. The broker also confirmed that Miss C had complained  about  its service and 
received compensation.
The investigators view was that Barclays had made mistakes but had paid fair and 
reasonable compensation in all the circumstances. While he thought  that the broker  had told 
Barclays about the Help to Buy loan, he didnt think  it wouldve been possible to complete  
the remortgage by 1 April 2019, or before 10 May 2019, as several  parties had to deal with 
the extra documents required to deal with the Help to Buy loan.
Miss C disagreed. She said that the investigator  had overlooked the handling  of her 
complaint by Barclays and her true financial  loss. The investigator said that hed considered 
what shouldve happened and didnt think that the mortgage wouldve been  completed 
earlier even if Barclays hadnt made  mistakes. She said that shed accept another £200 as 
compensation; the investigator said that the amount paid by Barclays was sufficient.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role isnt to punish businesses for 
making mistakes; its to put the consumer back into the position that they shouldve  been in if 
the mistake hadnt  happened. 
Ref: DRN06194632Barclays shouldve noticed earlier  that there was a secondary Help to Buy loan as it was 
mentioned in the application form by the broker. And while  it didnt say that it was secured, it 
was highly likely to be secured, so Barclays shouldve checked this point. Thats because as 
Barclays points out, the issue  of dealing  with the secured  loan did need to be sorted out, and 
it wasnt likely to be quick due to the number of parties involved. That said,  the broker 
accepts it made mistakes when completing the application form.
And I cant ignore  the evidence of the solicitors involved. Their  evidence is not only that the 
remortgage could  never have completed by 1 April 2019 (with which I agree), but that even if 
Barclays had picked  up on the point earlier, it couldnt have completed earlier  than 10 May 
2019. This is because  while Barclays needed  to ensure that the mortgage offer dealt with the 
issue, the solicitors had already started  to deal with the issue  much earlier and had been 
sending the legal documents to the various  parties involved. Im satisfied that the evidence  
shows Miss Cs remortgage couldnt have  completed earlier  despite  Barclays mistakes. This 
means I wouldnt require  payment  of financial loss as it hasnt been caused by Barclays, but 
I note Barclays has paid for one months  extra interest.
But Barclays  did cause trouble and upset to Miss C due to its handling of both the mortgage 
application and the complaint. Barclays itself accepted that it got both of these issues wrong. 
Complaints handling  isnt a regulated activity within the jurisdiction of this service.  I can look 
at activities ancillary to a regulated activity, and whether Barclays generally acted fairly and 
reasonably. But money  never truly compensates  for trouble and upset and I have to consider  
the evidence of the trouble and upset suffered by Miss C, not the size of the mistake  made  
by Barclays. 
I also note that the broker  has paid Miss C compensation  and admitted  that it made mistakes 
with this application. It has paid her £131  financial compensation  for the extra interest shed 
paid and £200 for the trouble and upset she suffered.  It appears  Miss C has been paid twice 
for her alleged financial loss, despite  the unlikelihood  that the application wouldve been 
completed by 1 April 2019.
Taking everything into account,  I think £200  compensation is fair and reasonable for the 
unfair and unreasonable administration and complaints handling by Barclays.  I note that a 
further £121.51 has been paid (in addition to the money from the broker).  I dont think  it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to ask Barclays to do anything  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 
3 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0619463