K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In 2000 Mr and Mrs P took out a joint secured personal loan during a meeting at a Halifax 
branch. They also took out PPI for Mr P to protect the loan repayments. They  paid a monthly  
premium for this insurance. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. Mr and Mrs P mainly said that there was no mention of a PPI policy and it was 
added without their knowledge  or consent, and that their sick pay through  work provided the 
same cover  so PPI wasnt  needed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The PPI policy just covered Mr P. But as the loan was in Mr and Mrs Ps joint names Ive 
looked at both their circumstances  when the loan was taken out.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
The application Mr and Mrs P had to fill in to get their loan asked if they wanted  PPI or not. 
Mr P has signed in the box to say he wanted  PPI. And Mr and Mrs P both signed the 
completed loan application. 
And the way information about  the PPI was set out in Mr and Mrs Ps loan agreement  
presented the policy clearly as a matter of choice with Yes and No options.  I think  its likely 
that the yes box was pre-printed  with an X as Mr and Mrs P had already discussed  this 
with the advisor  during the course  of making  the loan application and this reflected their 
wishes when theyd  had to say if they wanted PPI or not. 
If Mr and Mrs P had changed their minds  before signing, and decided they didnt want  PPI, 
they couldve filled in the No box on the loan agreement  instead  this is left blank on their 
agreement. Mr and Mrs P have both signed at the end indicating they agree with what  it says 
on the form.
I cant uphold this complaint just based on what Mr and Mrs P say about the sale.  I must 
decide what I think is most likely. Based on everything Ive seen, I think  Halifax made  
Mr and Mrs P aware that it was up to them to say if they wanted PPI for Mr P  and they 
chose to take it out with their loan.  
Ref: DRN07265512Halifax says it recommended the policy  to Mr and Mrs P. So it had to check  it was suitable 
for their needs. PPI wouldve covered  the monthly  loan repayments and paid out for up to 
60 months if Mr P was unable to work  as a result of accident or sickness.  This is longer than 
it appears Mr P was entitled  to sick pay from his employer  which he told us was 
discretionary. And the PPI wouldve also covered Mr P for up to 12 months per claim if he 
lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. Repeat claims were  possible under the policy.  
Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs P could  be sure theyd always  be able to keep up the monthly 
repayments in order to protect their home - which this loan was secured on. I think that 
wouldve been an important consideration for them. I think  its likely that when they took out 
this borrowing Mr and Mrs P were persuaded of the benefits of insuring the loan monthly 
repayments in order to give them financial security if they found Mr P was unable  to work. 
Mrs P was working and she had good  work benefits too  but I think losing Mr Ps income 
wouldve had a significant impact on their joint finances. So they mightve found it hard to 
manage the loan monthly repayments for very long on top of all their other monthly 
outgoings if only she was working.  
Overall, looking at Mr and Mrs Ps situation  at the time, I think  PPI couldve been useful and 
it was suitable  for them.
The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt  look as if that wouldve affected Mr P. So, 
I dont think having  more information  about  the policy exclusions and limitations  wouldve  
made any difference to Mr and Mrs Ps decision to take out PPI.
The loan agreement  sets out what the policy would cost them each  month as well as 
showing the monthly loan repayment  and the total monthly payment Mr and Mrs P had to 
make. So I think they wouldve been  aware  how much theyd be paying for the insurance. 
Its possible some information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  it unlikely that Mr and Mrs P wouldve made  a different decision if 
clearer information had been provided as the policy offered them  worthwhile benefits  in their 
particular situation.  I dont think having better information about the policy  wouldve put them 
off taking it out. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0726551