K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says TenetConnect Limited  failed to review advice shed been given to transfer  her 
defined benefits  scheme (DBS)  into a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP); and that it 
gave her unsuitable advice about certain subsequent investments made therein.
background
Mrs C sought advice  from Montpelier Group (Europe) Limited (Montpellier) in 2009 about  the 
benefits and guarantees shed accrued in her occupational pension. She was 62 at the time 
and was considering giving up her role as a director the following year. The transfer value of 
her DBS fund was over £900,000.
Ultimately, Mrs C decided to transfer  from her DBS into an MC Trustees SIPP.  At the same  
time, she also switched her other pension provisions, including  from a Small  Self-
Administration Scheme  (SSAS) and a money  purchase plan run by her employer.
Shortly after it was established, Merito Financial Services Limited (Merito), acquired the 
business and assets of Montpellier in 2011. It seems there was a significant degree of 
continuity between  these organisations, for example  with the client book and key staff 
moving across.
According to the Financial  Conduct  Authoritys (FCA) register,  Merito also became  an 
Appointed Representative (AR) of TenetConnect from October 2011. This meant as the 
principal, TenetConnect  was responsible  for the acts and omissions of its agent, Merito.  
Thats why Mrs Cs complaint has been  brought against TenetConnect.
From 2009  when Mrs C transferred her pension provision into a SIPP and for many years 
subsequently, shed been content with the ongoing  services shed received, including  in 
relation to investment advice. But in 2017  Mrs C appointed a new advisory firm and after a 
review it told her Montpelliers  advice to transfer her DBS pension in 2009 had been 
unsuitable.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to TenetConnect about  what had happened in 2017.  They  said it 
shouldve reviewed the transfer when  it took on responsibility for advising her. And that it had 
an opportunity to do so at each annual review. They also thought that certain  investment  
advice Mrs C had been given was unsuitable,  in particular in 2012  when over £100,000 of 
her fund was placed with the AXA Secure Advantage Plan (SAP).
TenetConnect said the advice given for Mrs C to transfer her DBS funds  to a SIPP was 
delivered by Montpelier  in 2009.  Since it didnt take on the successor business as an AR 
until 2011, this transaction  wasnt its responsibility.  And it didnt accept that Merito was 
required to look back over prior years to consider the previous  advice  shed received.
TenetConnect later accepted it was responsible for the investment advice its AR had 
provided from October 2011. But it thought  the recommendations it made had been sound 
and based on Mrs Cs objectives at the time.
The adjudicator concluded TenetConnect couldnt be held accountable for matters relating to 
the transfer of Mrs Cs DBS in 2009.  And he didnt think there was an obligation  on it to 
review previous advice  shed received.  But he did think it had provided  her with unsuitable 
advice in relation  to the AXA SAP investment in 2012.
Ref: DRN09427182TenetConnect disagreed with the adjudicators  recommendation to uphold Mrs Cs complaint 
about the investment advice. And Mrs C was disappointed that TenetConnect wouldnt be 
held responsible for what she felt was the continued reinforcement by its AR of the advice 
shed received in 2009  to transfer  her occupational pension.  So, Mrs Cs case has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Where theres  conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties  have provided information and argument about the events complained  about.  
Ive not provided  a detailed response  to all the points raised. Thats deliberate;  ours is an 
informal service  for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart  of this complaint.
Ive reached the same  conclusions as the adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. So, Im 
partially upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I thought about the position  of TenetConnect with regards to the advice given to 
Mrs C by Montpelier, whose business  and assets were subsequently  taken  on by Merito.  
And Ive thought about the assurances Mr and Mrs C were provided  when Merito was 
established.
I can see Mr and Mrs C were told by their adviser  in 2012 that the FCAs predecessor had 
required Merito to be responsible for Montpeliers past advice  so, for example its 
professional indemnity insurance would continue  to cover that risk.
I agree  with the adjudicator that TenetConnect cant be held responsible for the acts and 
omissions of Montpelier, which was a separate firm authorised by the FCA in its own right. 
Specifically, in relation to the matter Mrs C complains  about   the suitability of the advice she 
was given in 2009 to transfer her DBS benefits into a SIPP  with MC Trustees   the two firms  
had no relationship at that time.
I can see that Mrs C made a separate complaint in 2017 about the advice she got from 
Montpelier to transfer her pension. When she wasnt satisfied with the outcome, she brought  
the case to this Service. Although the adjudicator recommended her case  be upheld,  matters 
couldnt be concluded. The firm had entered into liquidation by the spring  2018. 
The FCA register records Montpelier as failing on 15 January 2019. From this point the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS)  notified its former  customers  they might 
be eligible for compensation.  And I can see Mrs C pursued that route. As there was no 
longer a business entity against  which  to bring  a complaint about the original advice to 
transfer her DBS, this Services  process in that regard was at an end.
Turning to a related element of Mrs Cs complaint. She says when TenetConnect became 
responsible for her financial advice in 2011,  it shouldve reviewed the advice she received in 
2009 to move from her DBS. Further, that it failed to advise her, for example in her annual 
reviews, that she might  have cause  to complain about the transfer.
Ref: DRN09427183The adjudicator referred  to the list of regulated activities contained in the The Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (Regulated  Activities) Order  2001. He said reviewing past 
transactions effected by a different advisory business, as opposed to reviewing the ongoing  
suitability of continuing investments still held by the investor, was not a regulated activity.
Certainly, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude  that TenetConnect was 
responsible for reviewing  from 2011 what Montpelier had advised  Mrs C to do in 2009. I note 
the following  term from the ongoing  service  agreement between the parties: 
The client agrees to engage the Firm for the purposes of providing an ongoing  service  to 
review their investments and ensure they remain aligned to their financial objectives
Although Montpelier  was taken over by Merito, as Ive noted much remained unchanged.  
The directors moved across to the new entity,  as did other staff, the book of clients  and other  
assets. And I understand Mrs C retained the same adviser involved in her DBS transfer until 
2014. So, its also unsurprising to me that Merito didnt consider it necessary to review the 
advice shed been given in 2009.  The ongoing service related to her investments.
Turning to the investment advice Mrs C received. Id emphasise the following relevant 
regulatory provisions:
-COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  
carried on for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business 
includes arranging (bringing about) deals in investments.  
-COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing  the suitability of 
investments. They are the same things that I look at when  reaching  a decision about 
whether the advice  was suitable.  In summary, the business must obtain the 
necessary information regarding:  the consumers knowledge  and experience in the 
investment field relevant  to the advice;  their financial situation; and their investment 
objectives.
-COBS 9.2.2R requires  firms,  among other things, to take account of a customers  
preferences regarding  risk taking, their risk profile  and to ensure they are able 
financially to bear any related  investment  risks consistent with their investment 
objectives. 
I note the role played by Mr C in his wifes investment strategy. I can see that he was on 
occasion engaged and active on her behalf. But its clear that Mrs C relied mainly on the 
investment recommendations she received from TenetConnect.  Thats  not surprising, I dont 
think she or her husband were experts  in the investment field.  Thats what  she was paying it 
a significant fee for.
When Mrs C brought  her complaint to this Service, she highlighted a particular concern 
about an investment  she made in 2012  into the AXA SAP.
As part of her portfolio Mrs C held an Aviva Trustee  Investment Plan (TIP), which had been 
established in June 2009. Her initial investment in the associated  deposit fund had been 
£100,000. The surrender  date was December 2012, by which  time it was worth around 
£102,000.
Ref: DRN09427184So, there was a need for Mrs C to decide  how she could  best utilise these funds. I can see 
from the suitability  report TenetConnect produced for her, it thought the rates  of return  on 
similar deposit accounts were poor and instead  it was agreed to look for alternative options.  
Mrs Cs main investment objectives  were  recorded as:
-The security of a guaranteed minimum income  in the future.
-The flexibility to decide  when to commence drawing income.
-The potential to benefit from growth  in the stock market.
At the time TenetConnect provided  the advice Mrs C was 66 years  old. She and her 
husband had income significantly in excess of their outgoings at that time. But she was 
looking to take a pension income  in the next three years.
Mrs C attitude to risk on a scale of 1 (cautious) to 5 (adventurous), was 4 (growth). This was 
defined as:
You are prepared to take some  risk with your investment in return  for the prospect of 
improving the longer-term investment performance as short-term  capital  protection is not 
important. A typical Growth investor will be invested  mainly in equities but with other  assets 
included to provide some  diversification. There may be a small amount of specialised  equity 
within the portfolio.
However, it was noted the aim of the monies then available  for investment had represented  
a low risk element of her portfolio.
TenetConnect recommended Mrs C invest in the AXA SAP fund. This provided for a 
guaranteed income, a 2% simple interest deferral  bonus and the potential for increases to 
the guaranteed income level,  subject  to investment performance. She agreed to the 
recommendation and the investment was made.
In responding  to the adjudicators analysis that AXA SAP was less good value for money 
than annuities available in the market  at that time, TenetConnect  noted  Mrs C didnt require 
an income in 2012. Had she taken an annuity,  she wouldve been locked into the contract  at 
that point. But she wanted the flexibility to decide when to commence her income and she 
also wanted the opportunity for growth.
The adjudicator said it was more likely than not that Mrs C wouldve been better off in 
retirement, within a degree of risk which was appropriate, by investing the £103,000 into 
alternative low risk holding(s). But TenetConnect noted this approach wouldnt have met her 
objective for the security of a known guaranteed minimum future income.
The adjudicator also had concerns about the costs associated with the AXA SAP. There  was 
an upfront adviser  commission of 1.5%.  And ongoing fees were near 3% when including  the 
adviser trail fee, the annual  management  charge, a fund charge and a guaranteed  income  
charge. TenetConnect said Mrs C was aware  of the increased costs associated with the 
AXA SAP product and that it had set out in the suitability report the reasons for this:
We discussed the fact that the [AXA SAP] is more expensive  given this provides an 
underlying guarantee. You confirmed  that you would like the safety net' of the guaranteed 
income to fall back on and you are therefore  prepared to pay the extra charges for the 
guarantee provided by AXA Life Europe Limited.'
Ref: DRN09427185TenetConnect concluded that the AXA SAP was a good match for Mrs Cs objectives.
At the time of the investment advice  complained  about, the bulk of Mrs Cs SIPP monies 
were invested in the Skandia Collective Investment Account. The approach  set out in the 
December 2012  suitability report to place the funds which had become available  in a lower 
level of investment risk, wasnt  unreasonable given  Mrs Cs circumstances. We know,  for 
example, that it was her intention to start taking a pension income in three years.
Ive thought about Mrs Cs circumstances, objectives and attitude to investment risk. And the 
level of fees associated with the AXA SAP and the minimum guaranteed income at age 70 
under this plan compared with a compulsory purchase  annuity  available in December  2012.  
Ive thought about the prevailing low interest rate environment at the time and the profile of 
Mrs Cs residual portfolio.
Like the adjudicator,  Ive concerns about  the appropriateness of the investment vehicle 
selected. Leaving  aside the upfront commission, the ongoing  annual  charges of nearly 3% of 
the fund were high.  And although  this secured  a guaranteed income, that wasnt  good  value 
for money  when compared with prevailing  open market annuity  rates.  
TenetConnects recommendation was that Mrs C incur fees of 2.45% a year,  and with 
commission on top of £1,545 initially and 0.5%  of the fund value annually, to secure  a level 
of guaranteed income which was roughly 15% less than the guaranteed level of income a 
female aged 70 couldve secured on the open market as at the date of advice on a 
comparable basis. 
Further, reference to the age 65 open  market rates available in 2012  suggest that even  
using the £103,000 to purchase an annuity immediately wouldve put Mrs C in a preferential  
position to the minimum guaranteed income  the AXA SAP would provide a little over three 
years later (and she wouldve also then have  received annuity  income  throughout that 
period).
On balance, Ive concluded TenetConnects advice here was unsuitable. I think its more  
likely than not had Mrs Cs funds  been  placed  with an alternative low risk product shed have 
achieved a better return for her retirement. And I think if TenetConnect had set out a broader 
suite of options  for investing her available funds  and advised appropriately she wouldve 
accepted that advice.
Mrs Cs complaint became broader to include other investment advice that TenetConnect 
gave her. Having  reviewed the recommendations made during the period  its AR was her 
adviser, Im satisfied they werent inappropriate for an individual  in her circumstances, with 
her objectives, attitude to investment risk and with her capacity for loss.
putting things right
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs C as close  as possible 
to the position she would  probably now be in if shed been  given  suitable  advice.
Ref: DRN09427186While I think Mrs C wouldve invested  differently, its not possible to say precisely what  she 
wouldve done. She wanted  to achieve a return without risking her capital. I think  the 
average rate for fixed rate bonds  would  be a fair measure given her circumstances and 
objectives. That doesnt mean  Mrs C wouldve invested only in a fixed rate bond. Rather its 
the sort of investment  return a consumer couldve obtained with little risk to their capital.
To compensate Mrs C, I require  TenetConnect  Limited to:
-Compare the performance of Mrs Cs investment in the AXA SAP with what  couldve 
been achieved  from the monthly average  rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is 
that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the 
investment on an annually compounded basis. 
-This should be done from when the investment was first made until Mrs Cs AXA 
SAP was surrendered. If this shows a loss, then compensation is payable.
-Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the AXA SAP should be deducted 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large  number of regular  payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, TenetConnect may total all those payments  and deduct  that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
-Pay 8% simple interest a year on any investment loss identified,  from the date the 
AXA SAP was surrendered until the date of settlement. Income  tax may be payable  
on any interest paid. If required by HM Revenue  & Customs (HMRC) to make a 
deduction, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. TenetConnect should also 
give her a certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
-Any loss should  be paid into Mrs Cs pension  plan to increase  its value  by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. This should  allow  for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  
-The compensation should not be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with 
any existing protection  or if it would give rise to any allowance issues. If payment  into 
Mrs Cs pension isnt possible,  or if such a payment would have protection  or 
allowance implications,  then the redress should  be paid directly to her. 
-But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a taxable 
income. So, any compensation  in this instance should be reduced to notionally  allow  
for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid. The notional allowance  
should be calculated  using Mrs Cs actual marginal  rate of tax in retirement. 
-TenetConnect should provide the details of the calculation to Mrs C in a clear,  simple 
format.
Finally, TenetConnect  must pay Mrs C £300 for the distress and inconvenience the advice 
complained about has caused  her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint. I require 
TenetConnect Limited to pay compensation to her as Ive indicated above.  It should pay the 
compensation within 28 days of Mrs Cs acceptance  of my final decision.
Ref: DRN09427187Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0942718