K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP was irresponsible to lend him money that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
Mr D wants Uncle Buck to refund all the interest that hes paid on the loans and remove any 
negative information  about them from his credit  file.
background
Mr D took out eight loans with Uncle Buck between August 2014 and November 2017. A 
summary of the loans  are below:
No. Loan start date Date  repaidAmount 
LentHighest  month 
Payment
1 25/08/2014 19/09/2014 £250 £337
2 20/09/2014 21/11/2014 £250 £337
3 24/11/2014 19/12/2014 £300 £405
4 20/02/2015 20/03/2015 £400 £201
5 25/05/2015 19/06/2015 £300 £147
6 22/08/2015 19/09/2015 £400 £198
7 20/11/2015 19/12/2015 £400 £203
8 24/11/2017 23/12/2017 £550 £199
Mr D says he was caught in a trap of borrowing from multiple lenders to keep up with his 
repayments. Mr D says he ended  up gambling to try and win money to help repay his debts.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ds complaint be upheld in part. He said that Uncle  
Buck shouldnt have  agreed loans one to seven. The adjudicator  asked Uncle Buck  to refund 
the interest and charges that Mr D had paid on these loans. The adjudicator recommended  
that Uncle Buck remove any negative information  about loans one to four from Mr Ds credit 
file. He said that Uncle Buck should  remove all information about  loans  five to seven.
Uncle Buck  disagrees  with the recommendation. It says that Mr D has given income  and 
expenditure information that conflicts with the information that he gave when he asked to 
borrow. 
Uncle Buck  has offered  to put refund interest  and charges  on loans six and seven. Mr D isnt 
willing to accept this offer so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN09834882Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle 
Buck should  fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Uncle Buck  has already  offered to put things  right for loans five and six. As there  doesnt  
seem to be any dispute about these two loans, I dont think I need to say much more about  
them apart from making it clear that Uncle Buck should remove any entries about them from 
Mr Ds credit file.
I also agree  with the adjudicator that due to the lengthy gap between  Mr D repaying loan 
seven and taking  out loan eight,  I should  treat loan eight as a new chain of lending.  As this is 
the case, I think that Uncle  Bucks checks went far enough. Based on what Uncle  Buck knew  
about Mr Ds finances, I cant  find it was wrong to agree loan eight.
Although when Mr D first borrowed from Uncle Buck it didnt have any lending  history to 
consider, I think that it shouldve reasonably  seen  that Mr D was unlikely to make  his loan 
repayments in a sustainable way. I say this because the credit search that Uncle  Buck 
carried out showed that Mr D had three defaults  within the previous 12 months.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending history with Mr D; I think Uncle  
Buck should  reasonably have seen  Mr D was unlikely to have been  able to make his loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner  by the time it provided loan five. I say this because:
by the time that Mr D borrowed  loan five he had been borrowing money  over an 
extended period  of time  nine months.  In my view, Mr Ds pattern of borrowing up 
until this point was in itself a clear  demonstration  of Mr Ds inability to settle  his loans 
over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ref: DRN09834883Mr D had previously been  taking out new loans  shortly after repaying previous ones. 
Mr D had also rolled over some of the loans. So Uncle  Buck ought to have realised  it 
was more likely than not Mr D was having to borrow further to cover the hole the 
repayment of his previous loans left in his finances and that Mr Ds indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Mr D wasnt  making  any real inroads  into what he owed Uncle Buck  and his 
indebtedness was being prolonged for an extended  period of time. This meant that 
Mr D had been paying large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Uncle 
Buck over an extended period.
I think that Mr D lost out because Uncle Buck provided loans five to seven because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed Uncle Buck money  was likely to have had 
negative implications on Mr Ds ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Ds complaint about  loans  one to seven.
Although there was a significant  gap between repaying loan seven and taking  out loan eight, 
Mr D has agreed  that Uncle Buck can apply the refund  against  the outstanding  balance on 
loan eight.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr D paid on loans one to seven;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
if it chooses to, apply the refund  against  the outstanding  balance  on loan eight before 
paying any remaining  balance  (if there  is any) to Mr D; 
remove any negative entries about  loans one to four from Mr Ds credit file; and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan five means  that any information about five 
to seven is negative. So all entries  about  loans five to seven should be removed from   
Mr Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Uncle  
Buck intends  to apply the refund against the outstanding balance on loan eight, it must do so 
after deducting the tax.
**If after taking these  steps theres still an outstanding balance, I remind Uncle  Buck of its 
duty to treat Mr D reasonably and sympathetically particularly if he puts forward  any 
repayment proposals. 
Ref: DRN09834884my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part and direct Uncle Buck  Finance  LLP 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0983488