K821x#15complaint
The personal representatives of the late Mr B have complained  about  the service  he 
received from Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) and their agents when he made a claim 
under his travel insurance policy. 
background
Mr B was on holiday on an island  Ill refer to as Island A when he had a heart attack and was 
admitted to hospital.  He had a travel  insurance policy  with URV. His family contacted URVs 
emergency assistance line for help. URV  ruled out repatriation, saying Mr B wasnt fit to fly. 
They said,  in summary, it was best for Mr B to wait for treatment  on the local health  service 
in the country  he was visiting. 
The hospital  in Island A didnt have the right equipment to treat Mr B or to monitor  him. 
URVs says, in summary, that it was standard procedure to move  patients such  as Mr B to 
another island,  Island  B, for treatment once hed reached the top of the waiting list, which  
would be around  a one month wait. They then planned to repatriate him back to the UK after 
hed recovered.  There was also discussion about whether Mr B could be treated at another  
hospital on a different  island, Island C. 
Mr Bs family arranged for him to be repatriated from Island A as they said the treating  
doctors there didnt  think hed survive the wait and the hospital didnt have the facilities to 
monitor his condition. Mr B was flown back to the UK around six weeks  after hed had the 
heart attack.  Sadly, Mr B passed away shortly after his return. 
Mr Bs personal representatives made a complaint about the service Mr B received. URV 
offered to pay the cost of the air ambulance and offered £350 compensation for poor service. 
my provisional decision
In January 2020 I issued my provisional  decision. In summary  I said I was intending to 
uphold this complaint and award £7000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to the late Mr B. 
My provisional decision said: 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Id like to express my condolences for the familys loss, particularly in such difficult 
circumstances. I can see that this was a traumatic  experience for all of them  and that Mr Bs 
daughters had also lost their mother shortly before this trip took place. 
Whilst I have considered all of the information and points that both parties have referred to, 
Ill only refer to those  which  I think are central to my decision. 
As I understand it the crux of URVs representations  in response to our investigator are: 
Its not for our service to dispute the clinical opinion or decisions of URVs medical 
team in this case 
Ref: DRN04799142The quality of medical care Mr B received  was not URVs responsibility and it did not 
have a duty of care to Mr B in this respect  or for moving him to an alternative  facility 
Our service has overlooked the contractual obligations of the insurer.
the legal  and regulatory framework
DISP 2.2.1 explains which complaints can be dealt with under the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. It says the scope of the Financial Ombudsman Services two jurisdictions  depends 
on:
(1) the type of activity to which the complaint relates; 
(2) the place where  the activity to which the complaint relates was carried on; 
(3) whether the complainant is eligible; and
(4) whether the complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service  in time.
I think the relevant  issue in this complaint is the type of activity  to which the complaint  
relates.
URV falls within  our services compulsory  jurisdiction.  DISP2.3.1 says the ombudsman can 
consider a complaint under the compulsory jurisdiction if it relates to the act or omission by a 
firm in carrying on a regulated activity or any ancillary activities, including  advice, carried  on 
by the firm in connection  with a regulated activity. The list of regulated  activities includes 
effecting and carrying out contracts of insurance.   
Carrying out a contract  of insurance means  performing the insurers  obligations under it. In 
this case, the complaint is about how URV  performed, or failed to perform, its obligations 
under the insurance contract  and about URVs activities  that were ancillary to this, such as 
communicating with Mr Bs family  and others  about  his claim to be repatriated by URV. So, I 
am satisfied  that the complaint concerns activities within my remit.  
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant  the 
ombudsmans determination may include a money  award against  the respondent, which in 
this case is URV. 
DISP 3.7.2R sets out the types of harm that the ombudsman can compensate. These  
include distress and inconvenience and states that compensation may be awarded by the 
ombudsman whether or not a court would award compensation.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6 - A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat 
them fairly 
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly,  both between  itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client. 
Ref: DRN04799143The relevant  FCA regulations also include ICOBS  8.1.1R which says:
An insurer  must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
the policy terms and conditions 
The contractual position between URV  and Mr B is important and, of course,  relevant to the 
findings Im intending to make. However,  as URV are aware, the role of the ombudsman  is to 
consider what is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of a case.  
Specifically, in considering what is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the case, I 
am to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes  of practice; and (where appropriate)  what  I consider to have been  good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The powers of the ombudsman  service  are different from the courts.  As I outlined above  
under DISP 3.7.2R  I am entitled to make awards for distress and inconvenience that a court 
would not make. 
Turning to the contract of insurance  in the section of the policy wording entitled About our 
travel insurance services it says:
This travel  insurance is suitable for those who wish to insure themselves when 
traveling in respect of medical emergencies, cancellation, losses  to baggage or 
money, personal liability and similar  expenses incurred from their travel.
The definitions section  of the policy wording explains that:
Emergency Assistance Facilities  Provides the 24 hours/365 day medical 
repatriation and assistance services on behalf  of Travel Insurance Facilities, UK 
branch of Union  Reiseversicherung  AG
Travel Claims  Facilities   Provides the claims services on behalf of Travel  Insurance 
Facilities, UK branch of Union Reiseversicherung AG
We/Us/Our/Insurer - branch of Union Reiseversicherung AGUK 
In the event of serious emergency,  policyholders are directed to contact the 24 hour 
emergency assistance service provided by Emergency Assistance Facilities (EAF). The 
policyholder is reminded  about things to be aware  of/remember  which are: 
Ref: DRN04799144Your policy does not cover any costs for private medical treatment unless approved 
by us 
NEVER give your passport to a clinic or hospital  
It is not always possible  to return home  immediately after discharge  following injury 
or illness. You will be able to return home when the assistance service considers  it 
safe, in conjunction with your doctor,  and airline regulations have  been  met. 
Sometimes you will need to stay in resort  for a while longer before returning home so 
the assistance team will arrange  additional  accommodation for you.
The section of the policy Emergency medical and other  expenses  sets out what  is and isnt 
covered. The policy  says it covers:
Emergency medical, surgical, hospital, ambulance  and nursing fees and charges 
incurred outside  of your home area  With the prior authorisation of the Emergency 
Assistance Facilities helpline, the additional  costs incurred  in the use of air transport 
or other suitable  means including qualified  attendants,  to repatriate you to your home  
areas if it is medically necessary. These expenses  will be for the identical class of 
travel utilised  on the outward journey unless the Emergency  Assistance Facilities  
helpline agree otherwise 
There are special conditions:
You must give notice  as soon as possible to the Emergency Assistance Facilities  
helpline of any bodily injury, illness or disease  which necessitates your admittance to 
hospital as an in-patient or before any arrangements  are made for your repatriation  
If you do suffer bodily injury, illness or disease we reserve the right to move you from 
one hospital to another and arrange for your repatriation to your home  area at any 
time during  your trip. We will do this if, in the opinion of the Emergency Assistance 
Facilities helpline  or us (based  on information provided by the medical  practitioner  in 
attendance), you can be moved safely and/or  travel safely  to your home area or a 
suitable hospital nearby  to continue treatment. 
There are a number of exclusions including:
Any form of treatment  or surgery which in the opinion  of the Emergency Assistance 
Facilities helpline  or us (based  on information provided by the medical  practitioner  in 
attendance), can reasonably be delayed until your return area
I think it follows from the contents of the above  extracts that URVs responsibilities  were  not 
confined to simply making reimbursement of justified claims after the event, but extended  to 
making important decisions during a medical emergency situation about  the prospective  
expenditure which it would authorise. 
This included discretionary decisions about repatriation, moving hospital, and whether a 
treatment should  be delayed. I think in light of the costliness of medical care and repatriation, 
making fair and timely decisions on such issues is a key responsibility  of an insurer  offering 
this type of cover. 
did URV fulfil its responsibilities  to Mr B?
Ref: DRN04799145Im intending  to uphold this complaint.  In reaching  my decision Ill refer to the following points 
which I think are the key issues in Mr Bs complaint. In summary these are:
(a)the role of URVs medical team 
(b)the medical evidence presented to URV during the claim 
(c)information from the British Consulate presented to URV during the claim 
(d)URVs decision not transfer Mr B to a private  hospital
(e)the responsibilities of the treating hospital and the impact  of the reciprocal health 
agreement on Mr Bs policy
(f)URVs decision not to repatriate  Mr B to the UK 
(g)the customer service offered to Mr B (and his family acting on his behalf) 
(h)Mr Bs distress  and inconvenience.  
(a)the role of URVs medical team 
URV underwrites Mr Bs policy and Emergency Assistance Facilities provides the emergency 
assistance service on their behalf.  The policy  describes EAFs role as providing the 24 
hours/365 day medical repatriation and assistance  services on behalf  of Travel Insurance 
Facilities, UK branch of URV. 
This includes offering  immediate help and support to policyholders who fall ill abroad. 
Accordingly, EAF act as the first contact point for policyholders who experience  a medical  
emergency abroad. In some cases, this may involve the claims handler  seeking guidance 
from the EAFs medical team on the policy holders behalf. That includes seeking their 
guidance on URVs decisions  about  authorising expenditure on repatriation or moving 
hospital, and whether  a treatment should be delayed. 
The medical team, including  the medical  director, also play a customer facing role in the 
operation of the policy and did so in Mr Bs case. For example, speaking to Mr Bs family 
directly and providing direction to URV about  the best course of action for Mr B. 
URV says that looking into EAFs performance  in this case  goes  beyond  the remit of our 
service because it calls into question the medical  opinion of their team or of specific 
individuals within it. 
But our service is an alternative to the courts which is set up to resolve disputes quickly  and 
with minimal formality. My role is to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a case   taking into account any relevant law, regulation and guidance   
and I have to decide  whether a business acted fairly and reasonably.  
In making that decision I am entitled  to look at all the evidence  and I dont consider that the 
fact that some of the individuals in this case were doctors who gave advice that was 
expressed in terms of medical  risk prevents me from examining all the evidence. Nor have I 
found that, on the particular facts of this complaint,  its medical context has prevented me 
Ref: DRN04799146from being able to reach a decision that I am satisfied is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
(b)the medical evidence presented to URV during the claim 
Mr B suffered  a heart attack  and needed  a surgical  procedure. It isnt in dispute that the 
doctor at the treating  hospital told URV  they didnt have the facilities to do the procedure  or 
to adequately monitor him. So he needed for this to be carried  out at another hospital. The 
treating doctor said that this would happen at a public hospital on Island B but there was a 
months wait. 
URVs position is that this is the responsibility  of the treating  hospital  and it was for the 
treating doctor to decide to move  Mr B if he needed to access  treatment more urgently. They 
say it simply was too risky to bring  him home. 
During one of the initial calls with URV the treating  doctor  said he was going to ask URV to 
take Mr B on an air ambulance because he needed catheterisation. The doctor  said that 
there was nothing on the island, they were  surrounded by water and there were no private  or 
public facilities on the island. The doctor  went on to say that Mr B was a complex patient and 
in his opinion  Mr B was better off being  treated on the NHS. 
Whilst the doctor referred to Mr B not being  an emergency he stated  that he had another  
uninsured patient  who had waited  for a month  for catheterisation  because it was on the 
public system. He said that he was going to ask URV to do this privately because he couldnt 
do it on the public system.  
The same timescale of a one-month waiting time was also given to URVs medical director  in 
another call. In a later call with the same treating doctor URV was told: 
No. We have a problem. We have a serious  problem and we are sorting it and we will 
do catheterisation here. This is an issue from the [redacted]  Health  Service, which  is 
a structural system that is being sorted this man requires you to come  with an 
ambulance, pick him up and take him to wither  (sic) his country or a place where they 
can do catheterisation. If you wish to do it let me know and, if not let me know  as 
well. And that is it. There is nothing more to it. 
When URV asked what the chances of Mr B dying  were  the doctor said: 
Right, he now has complications  due to, to oxygen levels it has not caused a chest  
angina again,  troponin has not gone  up again, that has not happened.  However,  his 
heart is not healthy,  and the man was already in bad shape.  This man might get an 
infection or anything  else could happen really. He might not have another heart 
attack but he might catch pneumonia or something. 
When asked by URV about the chances Mr B would die in the air ambulance  the doctor said: 
Look, the air ambulance is so much  better  than here. He is not even being  monitored 
here, as I do not have  a monitor for him. Not even  his saturation levels  are being  
monitored, I dont  know if you are understanding what I am saying we live next to 
Africa, we live next to Africa we do not have catheterisation. 
Ref: DRN04799147The treating  doctors  didnt  seem to understand why URV were  refusing to repatriate Mr B 
when, in their experience,  this was something the insurance company would usually do. In 
one of the calls between the treating doctor and URV the doctor referenced this directly  
saying: 
What the family would be wondering is that, as he is English and has medical 
insurance why does this insurance not cover  his transfer by air ambulance,  which is 
something very common. At least we many other countries do it. 
URVs doctor responded by saying this wasnt a private medical insurance policy  and went  
on to talk about a doctor in the UK who had been  prosecuted and convicted of 
manslaughter. 
Ive also taken into account the medical reports from the treating hospital.  The initial report 
dated the 12 February 2018 noted  Mr B needed  a catheter and had been admitted to 
intensive care. This report was reviewed by a doctor at URV. Cover was verified on the 
13 February but there was no further  contact  between  URV and the treating hospital  
recorded on the document and event  history until the 19 February, a week  after Mr B was 
first admitted.  
Ive seen a transcript  of a call on the 20 February  between URV and the treating doctor.  The 
doctor recommended repatriation to the UK and said there was a months wait for 
catheterisation. Following  the call the treating doctor sent a report  to URV which included 
details of treatment,  diagnosis and test results  and said: 
Plan: I am sending a report to the travel  insurance company for repatriation by air 
ambulance. The patient required catheterisation prior to a commercial  flight.  We do 
not have catheterisation on our island. 
URVs internal file note dated the 23 February  2018 says: 
Progress changed from None to Update MR; ETT; severe global ventricular  
dysfunction akinetic lateral inferior  and posterior wall. Complete the atb due to chest  
infection. TD suggest AA for cath lab in UK Assessed case  with [redacted]  we both 
agreed that TD should complete the investigation  and treatment  under EHC  
agreement and then repat (when  patient is safe) if the hospital do not have the 
facilities they need to transfer  the to the main island  (Island B). Called daughter and 
explain (sic) the same reasons why we do not contemplate  to repat  on AA due to 
high risk. 
The treating  hospitals  view is further  evidenced  in its report dated 2 March 2018  in which  the 
doctor said the plan was: 
Sent report to insurance company to proceed  with their repatriation  in accordance 
with the familys wishes and the request  of their insurance company. The patient is to 
be transferred by air ambulance and transferred to a centre with a capacity to carry 
out angioplasty
Overall, Im satisfied that it was made  clear  to URV that the treating doctors thought the best 
option for Mr B was to be repatriated by air ambulance. But URVs own doctors declined, on 
the basis that he should be transferred by the treating hospital to Island B and investigated 
and treated there under EHIC before coming  home.  URV declined to repatriate  Mr B 
Ref: DRN04799148because they deemed it more appropriate  for him to be treated under the local, public 
system, notwithstanding that this would also involve being flown and, most likely, a wait of 
four weeks.  
(c)information from the British Consulate presented to URV during the claim 
The British  Consulate also contacted URV  I understand that this was instigated  by Mr Bs 
family. 
The consular  official emphasised that Mr Bs situation was urgent and that if he didnt have 
heart surgery Mr B would probably die. She went on to say that Island A wasnt the same as 
Island B and there werent  the resources to do something like this quickly.  And she 
explained there was a months waiting list to be transferred and said,  that having spoken 
with the treating doctor numerous times,  he was recommending repatriation as soon as 
possible. 
I note that the Consulate  also offered assistance  if the medical team at URV wanted to know  
about more local procedures in relation to medical care on the islands. URV said, in 
summary, that their medical team had what they needed and knew  this information. 
Theres a note on URVs file which refers to a further conversation between URVs medical 
director and the same consular official, as well as a call with Mr Bs daughter.  A note on the 
file explains there  was a dispute between the medical director and Mr Bs family about  this. 
Ive listened to the call between URVs medical director  and Mr Bs daughter. During the call 
Mr Bs daughter was clear that shed  been told by the treating team  that Mr B would die 
within a month. The medical director talked about  Mr Bs situation  with the daughter  and 
discussed the apparent differences in information  that URV  and the family were  being given 
by the treating doctors.  
To summarise the call: 
The medical director said hed discussed  the suggestion that Mr B would  die within  a 
month with the consular official. Hed said he had asked the consular  official to 
discuss this with the treating hospital.
The treating  hospital  were  refusing  to say to URV what they thought  would happen to 
Mr B.
The consular  official had quoted to the medical  director what the treating doctor had 
said in [redacted]  to her. The information provided was that Mr B could die today, 
tomorrow, during the treatment or any time afterwards. Later  in the call the quote  
was reported to be, He could die this week, today, tomorrow, this week,  next week,  
a month  or much later or during the treatment.
The treating  hospital  would not say to the consular official that Mr B would die within  
a month  and that statement  would not be true. And she (the consular official)  had told 
URV that the hospital had categorically denied to her having said that Mr B would die 
within the month.
The medical director said the call between himself and the consular official  was 
recorded and could be retrieved. 
Ref: DRN04799149Although it isnt explicitly stated in the call I think it was clearly  inferred that the treating 
hospital were giving URV different information to the family. I asked URV to provide a copy  
of the call because  I wanted to hear what information was provided to the medical director  by 
the consular official.   
During the original  call the consular  official had said that the doctor  was recommending  
repatriation as soon  as possible.  Yet URV told Mr Bs daughter that it had a recording of the 
consular official subsequently taking  a very different  stance and one that contradicted  what  
the daughter was saying. The content  of this recording, to which  URVs medical director 
specifically referred, would have been  important to my investigation, if such a recording had 
existed.  
However, URV has told me that it isnt able to provide a copy  of this call because  the 
medical director made it from his mobile phone and the call wasnt  recorded. This is 
disappointing as it is a significant  call which was important in the context of this case. 
Consequently, I dont know what was said during the call between the medical director  and 
the consular official.  However, I note that in the other  call Ive referred to the consular official 
stressed that Mr B would probably die without treatment and stressed  the urgency of the 
situation. So, it seems  unlikely to me that the consular officials position would have changed 
so significantly between  the two calls. 
Even if the consular official agreed  with the medical director that there was no specific 
statement from the hospital confirming Mr B would  die within one month,  I think it is clear all 
parties in Island A had concerns about  the prognosis for Mr B if he stayed and remained 
untreated. I also bear in mind  the context of the calls from URV to the treating doctors in 
which the treating  team  made it very clear  they thought  it was best for Mr B to return  to the 
UK. 
(d)URVs decision not to transfer Mr B to a private hospital
URV says that under  the contract of insurance  it had no obligation to look into other private  
facilities. It says that it will provide reasonable assistance to policyholders, but the policy is 
clear it doesnt offer private cover. 
I dont find that argument  persuasive  particularly as the contract  of insurance provides the 
insurer with the discretion  to cover private treatment. Mr B could neither be monitored  nor 
treated where  he was and, in such circumstances, Id expect URV to look into all options  for 
him, including  whether  it was possible to get him to another  private facility with a shorter 
transfer time than the UK or somewhere that could monitor him adequately.
I think this would have  amounted to reasonable assistance for Mr B bearing in mind  the 
opinions expressed  by the treating doctors  and other parties who were  present in Island A. 
This option was completely ruled  out by URV.   
Ref: DRN047991410There was some discussion  about  moving Mr B to a private  hospital  with Mr Bs family who 
repeatedly asked for this to happen. URV  has an established position not to work with 
hospitals within a hospital chain Ill refer to as H-Group who happened  to have facilities 
within the [redacted] Islands where  Mr B was. Its agreed that Mr B couldnt have been  
treated at the H-Group facility in Island A because it didnt have the right facilities  to carry out 
the procedure.  But I think it is most  likely that the H-Group Hospital on Island B could have 
done, or at least monitored him more  appropriately. I note that the private hospital on Island 
B had a cardiology  department which is listed as one of their specialisms. 
In this case URV refused to move  Mr B there on the basis that it never allows  any clients  to 
obtain treatment  at any H-Group facilities because it has grave reservations about their 
clinical and commercial practices. I note that, to date, this isnt a concern highlighted to our 
service by other insurers who operate in this market or in this geographical area. In one of 
the calls with Mr Bs daughter URVs medical  director referred to possible litigation with H-
Group and said that URV was preparing a dossier on them. 
URV says it relied on the advice by its medical  team that the H-Group  hospital in Island C 
had a poor reputation. It has not provided any supporting evidence  which  demonstrates this 
was a legitimate  concern. Ive also not seen any evidence that they made enquiries at other 
private facilities within a reasonable distance  of where Mr B was being treated. 
(e)the responsibilities of the treating hospital and the impact  of the reciprocal health 
agreement on Mr Bs policy
The FCA Guidance given  in the Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair 
Treatment of Customers (RPDD) at paragraphs  1.17 says:  
When undertaking product or service design,  Principles 2, 3 and 6 are particularly  
relevant. In particular, a firm: 
(1)should identify  the target market, namely  which types of customer  the product or 
service is likely  to be suitable (or not suitable) for; 
(2)should stress-test  the product or service to identify how it might perform in a 
range of market  environments and how the customer could be affected;  
(3)should have  in place systems and controls to manage adequately the risks posed  
by product or service design 
Paragraph 1.19 of RPPD  says: 
When providing information to customers Principles 3, 6 and 7 are particularly 
relevant. In particular, a firm: 
(1)should pay regard  to its target market, including its likely level of financial 
capability;
(2)should take account of what information  the customer needs to understand the 
product or service, its purpose and the risks,  and communicate information  in a 
way that is clear,  fair and not misleading  
Ref: DRN047991411(3)should have  in place systems and controls to manage effectively the risks posed 
by providing information to customers.
I think its most likely  that URV  were  aware of issues in relation to the provision of care within  
the [redacted] Islands and that this had an impact on local waiting times. The medical 
director refers to this in calls with Mr Bs daughter. He mentions that emergency assistance  
directors met quarterly and were aware  of problems within  Island A and he referred  to other 
cases hed dealt with. 
URV has taken the decision  to offer cover  to policyholders like Mr B travelling  to a 
destination where they know public  healthcare  might  not be available within a reasonable 
timescale. The [redacted] Islands are a major tourist destination for people from the UK and 
so there  are likely to be many people  paying  for URV policies, like Mr B, and travelling  to the 
same destination. 
H-Group is an international network  of private hospitals operating within  popular tourist 
destinations across the world. It isnt uncommon for UK tourists to be directed to H-Group  
hospitals when  they become ill abroad. H-Group have twenty hospitals in their network,  of 
which seven are in the [redacted]  Islands.  
URV has an established position  not to work with hospitals from that group, on the basis  that 
it has a poor reputation. As Ive outlined above  they have provided no evidence in support of 
that assertion.  
I think it is most likely  that URV  were aware that private facilities in the [redacted] Islands are 
readily available via H-Group in the [redacted] Islands and tourists  are often directed to 
H-Group facilities. The policy says that private cover can be authorised. But, as a significant 
number of the private hospitals in the [redacted] Islands are run by H-Group,  this limits the 
options for private treatment significantly,  as it did for Mr B. 
I accept the policy excludes private healthcare unless  authorised  by URV. But I dont think  
the full implications of this are made  clear in the policy documentation. In a situation where 
URV refuses  to exercise its discretion to repatriate  and refuses  private care, for example 
because the only private care available is via H-Group this leaves a consumer, like Mr B, in 
a position where  they are reliant on public healthcare. In Mr Bs case this meant he was 
expected to wait for four weeks for treatment  as that was the standard  waiting time in the 
[redacted] Islands. 
This means  URV simply directed him to receive  medical care under  the reciprocal health 
agreement, as if he was a [redacted] citizen. Thats  something hed be entitled  to anyway as 
an EU citizen, who had travelled without insurance. 
In line with the FCAs guidance, which Ive referred  to above, Id have expected URV to have 
taken such issues into account  when deciding whether to offer policyholders,  such  as Mr B, 
cover in tourist destinations where these  issues are apparent, such as the [redacted]  Islands.
Or, at the very least, they ought to make it clear in their policy  documentation so that their 
customers can make an informed  choice  about this when travelling to destinations that are 
likely to be affected by issues of this nature.
Ref: DRN047991412Essentially selling travel cover for the [redacted] Islands, whilst operating an undisclosed 
company policy  that shut out a major  healthcare provider there, left URV policyholders 
exposed in a way that they could not have appreciated when they chose travel insurance  
with URV.  In Mr Bs case this left him, through no fault of his own,  in a position where the 
public treatment wasnt available  for a month but URV wouldnt transfer him to any of the 
local private hospitals. I dont think that was treating Mr B fairly. 
(f)URVs decision not to repatriate  Mr B to the UK 
As I outlined  above  there are specific policy terms and conditions which concern 
discretionary decisions URV  can make  about  repatriation, moving hospital, and whether a 
treatment should  be delayed.
URVs submissions  have  emphasised what it sees as its limited contractual duties to Mr B in 
relation to the exercise of the discretions to which I have referred. But those contractual 
discretions would have been subject to an implied  limitation, which may be described as a 
duty of rationality. Chitty  on Contracts  (33rd edition, paragraph 14-026) refers to many 
cases in which the courts have implied  a term that a contractual  discretion should not be 
exercised dishonestly, for an improper purpose, capriciously, arbitrarily  or in a way that no 
reasonable person, acting reasonably, would act..  I believe that this term, which  I shall call 
the Rationality  Term, is also implied in relation  to URVs discretions in Mr Bs case.  
I think (although it does not affect  my decision) that URVs treatment of Mr B breached  the 
Rationality Term, in that its decision not to authorise  air transport  to the UK was flawed to the 
extent that it was a decision  that no reasonable insurer, acting reasonably, would have  
taken. 
However, the regulatory obligations upon URV also mean that the standard  of behaviour 
expected of it exceeds its purely contractual duties.  In particular, the regulatory  obligations  
demanded that URV should treat its customer,  Mr B, fairly, a requirement that means  it 
should pay due regard to his interests. 
Moreover, I must  decide  the case on the basis of what I consider is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.  So ultimately neither the existence nor the extent of any contractual limit 
on URVs discretions are decisive factors for my determination of this complaint. 
I think it is for our service  to review whether the discretions, set out within the insurance  
contract, have been exercised properly in accordance with the regulatory obligations that I 
have identified and, generally, in line with what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
In any event the relevant regulatory principle,  Principle  6, places a responsibility on URV to 
pay due regard to the interests of customers and treat them fairly. The insurance contract is 
described by URV as being: 
suitable for those  who wish to insure themselves when traveling in respect of 
medical emergencies
URV says that the failure to remove Mr B to a different facility  is a decision for the treating 
hospital and therefore concerns about this issue ought to be directed to Mr Bs treating 
doctors in Island A. But I dont think that responsibility rested with the treating hospital alone.
Ref: DRN047991413I would have expected URV to have been responsive to Mr Bs medical  emergency  and 
acted in a way that corresponded to the gravity and deterioration of his condition, the risks of 
his situation, and the likely impact of him waiting  for treatment without adequate monitoring.  
Im not satisfied they fulfilled their responsibilities to Mr B in this case  for the reasons Ill go 
on to explain.
I havent found URVs reasons for taking the course of action they did persuasive in the 
circumstances of this case as I dont think theyve adequately explained or justified why they 
thought the risk of leaving Mr B untreated in Island  A was more acceptable than the risk of 
bringing him home  or sourcing an alternative hospital where he could access  treatment. 
Mr B was in a hospital that couldnt treat his condition  and didnt even have the facilities  to 
monitor him properly. The lack of facilities was made clear to URV during various calls with 
the hospital. And it was also made  clear  that (unless Mr Bs condition deteriorated to the 
point that it became so critical he would be permitted to jump  the queue  for treatment) there  
was going to be a wait of at least a couple of weeks, and most likely a month,  before hed be 
able to access treatment  within  the [redacted] health  service. 
URV has also said in response  to the complaint that typically waiting times in the UK would 
be longer than in [redacted]  and that [redacted] is ranked  more  highly than the UK for 
medical treatment. But Ive seen evidence from Mr Bs GP who says Mr B wouldve  been 
treated within  48 to 72 hours in the UK if hed been referred at that time. So, on the basis of 
the evidence Ive seen, the information  about  waiting  times in the UK being longer than in 
the [redacted] Islands for the procedure Mr B needed is simply not accurate. 
Ive also seen no evidence that URV explored the waiting  times  at Mr Bs local hospital  as 
part of its decision-making process. And Ive seen no evidence they weighed up the risks of 
repatriating Mr B for quicker treatment against the risk of leaving Mr B to wait for treatment in 
[redacted]. Ive not seen any explanation as to why this important  information  wasnt 
obtained and didnt feature in their decision-making process at the time. Instead URV has 
said that it was for the treating hospital to move Mr B to Island B if his situation became  an 
emergency and he was never  fit to fly.   
URV were also aware that there had been  a delay in adding Mr B to the waiting list because  
he didnt have an EHIC card when  he travelled  to Island A. And there are notes explaining 
that Mr B deteriorated during his stay in hospital. For example, there was evidence he was 
starting to experience  confusion. 
I acknowledge that it is possible  the treating hospital may have wanted to get Mr B out of 
their facility in order to free up a bed. But, looking at the correspondence, and the call 
records I dont think that was the case.  On the evidence that I have seen,  it seems  more 
likely that the treating  team considered  Mr B could get the right monitoring and treatment, 
and more quickly, back in the UK.
I agree  that the level of care in a foreign hospital isnt something URV  has control over or 
responsibility for. But, as Ive outlined above,  the contract of insurance allows URV to 
exercise a discretion in relation to moving  a patient  to a different hospital or bringing them  
back to the UK and Im satisfied that I can consider whether that discretion  has been 
exercised fairly. 
Ref: DRN047991414I am not persuaded by URVs representations  that it was in Mr Bs best interests, or treating 
him fairly, to leave  him in a hospital which couldnt  even  monitor  or treat his underlying 
condition. I also note that the treating doctor raised  the additional risk of further 
complications, such as infection.  Under the contract  of insurance URV had the option to 
move Mr B somewhere  else or repatriate him, as Mr B and his family wished, but it chose  
not to exercise  that discretion in this case.  
I dont think it is fair or reasonable  for URV to say that all the burden  of responsibility to 
ensure that Mr B received  the treatment that he needed lies on the treating hospital. This is 
an insurance policy that is designed to cover medical emergencies  when travelling  abroad, 
365 days a year and 24 hours a day. I dont  think URV could reasonably  leave it to the 
treating hospital  to move Mr B in circumstances where it was aware the move was 
necessary and yet could  not take place for some  time because  Mr B was caught in a queue. 
Im not persuaded this approach fairly reflects the overarching principle of treating customers  
fairly. Mr B had paid for the benefit of cover  and was entitled to receive  some  level of service  
from URV in return.  
Based on the evidence  Ive seen I think it was unfair to Mr B for URV to rely on the level of 
cover offered under the reciprocal health  agreement despite overwhelming information  from 
the treating doctor and other people familiar with the local system that Mr B needed to be 
moved as soon as possible. In my view,  this could and should  have  taken place by around 
23 February, whereas  it was not until around 24 March that Mr B was in fact repatriated at 
his own expense.
I also dont think the medical directors comments in relation to a UK doctor  who had been 
prosecuted and convicted for manslaughter  was a satisfactory response to the treating  
doctor who was asking for Mr B to be repatriated. The insurance policy  covered medical 
emergencies and contemplated  that in a suitable case  the insurers would repatriate their 
insured. The doctors  treating Mr B regarded this as clearly the most  appropriate  course.  
URV has also not provided me with any supporting evidence to explain the relevance  of the 
manslaughter comment to Mr Bs circumstances. I dont think  this was a relevant 
consideration in circumstances  where Mr B plainly  needed to be moved from Island A for his 
own good and his treating  doctors (and Mr B) strongly favoured  returning  him by air 
ambulance. 
Nothing I have  seen explains why, as compared to that alternative, the treating doctors 
preferred option  of repatriation should  have been  regarded by URV  as too risky to Mr Bs 
health. Nor, given  that the doctors  who were treating him supported  repatriation,  can I 
understand URVs concerns that it might be held responsible for the consequences of 
allowing Mr B fly, if he did not survive. It was no more at risk than if the local doctors had 
wanted to undertake some medical  procedure  which they considered desirable and URV 
agreed to pay for it.
Ref: DRN047991415(g)the customer service offered to Mr B (and his family acting on his behalf)
The assistance case was first logged by URV on the evening of the 11 February  2019.  It is 
disappointing to see that the responsibility for obtaining an initial medical report for URV  from 
the hospital fell to Mr Bs daughter. She was on holiday with two young children and her 
father, who had just experienced  a heart attack.  So this was a stressful situation for the 
family and I think it would have been  appropriate  for URV to take on this responsibility rather  
than expecting the family to do it. 
URV has acknowledged in their latest  response  that there were several failings in the service  
which was initially provided  to the family, mainly around communication, in that promised 
call-backs didnt occur  and there were unclear explanations of circumstances surrounding 
the cover  available for various family members flying to and from Island A. URV said it had 
sincerely apologised for these service issues and accepted that these added to the stress 
and the upset the family were experiencing at the time. They pointed out that theyd offered 
compensation to the estate in respect of those failings and covered some expenses  that 
didnt fall within the contract of insurance. As our investigator noted once the senior 
management became  involved in the case the level of service  did improve.  
The medical director of EAF spoke  to Mr Bs family during this time. During this time Mr Bs 
daughters were travelling  backwards and forwards between the UK and [redacted]  to 
support their father.  So this was a stressful and upsetting time.  
I have listened  to recordings of these calls.  During them  Mr Bs daughter was bombarded 
with information,  much of which was irrelevant. URVs medical director  showed  little 
compassion or empathy and repeatedly talked over her. He showed little appreciation for the 
stress the family were under. 
Mr Bs daughter described  the medical director as pompous and patronising when she first 
made a complaint to URV about the service she was receiving. I dont think  her description is 
unwarranted in a situation where  Mr Bs daughter was worried  her father was dying and I 
can understand why the content of the calls caused  Mr Bs family to become distressed and 
frustrated. 
For example, I dont think the medical directors detailed explanations of the EHIC 
arrangements and the difference  between the EHIC and Medicare systems was necessary 
in the circumstances. And in one of the calls the medical director told Mr Bs daughter  she 
was incapable  of dialogue and said that she was accusing a British government  official  of 
lying. He then asked  her to define  a lie. He went  on to say that hed tell her what a lie was 
and provide a definition.  
Those calls are uncomfortable to listen to and I think they did little to offer Mr Bs family, 
acting on his behalf, an appropriate  level of service in a highly stressful  situation.
Ref: DRN047991416(h)Mr Bs distress  and inconvenience
Our service cannot award compensation for distress or inconvenience that was suffered by 
members of Mr Bs family, as they werent  policyholders. However, I was particularly 
disappointed to note the content and tone of the calls between URVs medical director and 
Mr Bs daughter which showed little empathy for the familys vulnerability and stress. 
I dont doubt that their experience of the poor service from URV was extremely frustrating 
and upsetting. If I were  in a position to award them compensation for the service  they 
received I would have  done so, but I am not. 
However, I can consider  the impact URVs failings  had on Mr B during  the period that he was 
alive and receiving a service from it. So thats  the period of time he spent in hospital  until the 
time he left the care of the hospital  in [redacted]. In the complaint form, Mr Bs daughters 
described how Mr B had been  affected by the situation emotionally  and financially. I asked 
Mr Bs daughters to tell me more  about this. In summary they said Mr B: 
Became anxious,  depressed and his mobility deteriorated - he was aware that his life 
was on a clock
Was extremely distressed that the insurance  company  wouldnt fly him home   he 
would sob during phone calls and sometimes had to be restrained  at night to protect 
his drips on occasion as he would try to get up in the night
Found  information  given by URVs medical  director which  emphasised air ambulance 
crash statistics  and the availability  of oxygen to be distressing in a situation where 
Mr B desperately wanted URV to authorise  his repatriation via this method 
Was distressed that he had to spend his own money to arrange an air ambulance   
he told his daughters that he thought  URV were leaving  him to die to save money
Arrived home to the UK and was in tears, grabbing the hands of UK nurses  and 
talking about feeling safe now. 
URV has now paid the cost of the air ambulance, the medical bills and has offered to cover 
the outstanding costs  for Mr Bs daughters  car hire costs. But I think  it should pay 
compensation to reflect  the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr B during the time that 
he was alive, whilst  his claim was active with URV.  
I found the description of Mr B feeling  as if hed been left to die compelling  and persuasive. 
His medical team were telling him it was best for him to go home and there  was little, if any, 
consideration of moving him to a private  hospital. He knew  that the public hospital couldnt  
even monitor him and didnt have the facilities to treat him. 
Having a heart attack on holiday  is, of itself, a huge  source of distress and inconvenience  
but its for me to decide whether that was increased still further by the manner in which URV 
handled Mr Bs case.
I think it is more  likely than not that Mr B did experience extreme  distress during the period of 
time that he was in hospital, beyond the inevitable distress caused  by his illness.  I think  he 
was there  for approximately  four weeks  after he should have been moved to the UK, 
suffering from a life-threatening  condition, and feeling as if his insurer  had abandoned him. 
Ref: DRN047991417There were times when his daughters couldnt be with him and he was alone. During that 
period, he also suffered  the inconvenience of being left without appropriate treatment at a 
hospital which lacked  the facilities for handling a dangerous condition  which  needed 
treatment. 
Im intending  to direct URV to pay a total of £7,000 compensation  which  is in our services 
extreme band of compensation for distress  and inconvenience. In reaching this conclusion 
Ive taken into account the unreasonable delays  in repatriating Mr B whilst bearing in mind 
that hes likely to have  suffered  some distress and inconvenience, in any event, because  of 
his condition.   
responses to my provisional  decision
The personal representatives of the late Mr B accepted my provisional  decision. They  
provided an update in relation to the General Medical Councils  involvement  in this case. 
URV said that they had no objection to paying  the sum of £7000 to the estate of the late 
Mr B or to a charity of their choosing if the estate was closed. However, they said the 
conclusions I had drawn were unfair and based on a misconception of the position in relation  
to medical advice. 
They identified four key points which they said they wanted to challenge which  are my 
findings that: 
(a)The decision by URV not to authorise  repatriation of Mr B to the UK was flawed 
to the extent that it was a decision that no reasonable insurer,  acting reasonably, 
would have taken
(b)URV didnt fulfil its responsibilities to Mr B in that it failed to be responsive to his 
medical emergency or act in a way that corresponded to the gravity in 
deterioration of his condition, the risks of his situation and the likely impact  of him 
waiting for treatment without adequate monitoring 
(c)URV did not properly  exercise its discretion in deciding whether to move  Mr B 
elsewhere or repatriate him, which it had the option to do under the contract of 
insurance 
(d)It was unfair to Mr B for URV to rely on the level of cover  offered under the EHIC  
despite overwhelming information from the treating doctor  and other people 
familiar with the local system that Mr B needed  to be moved as soon as possible.  
In summary  URV said: 
Their medical team  considered that a flight to the UK would be too dangerous for Mr 
B.
Ref: DRN047991418It was preferable that Mr B rest and avoid stress to keep his blood pressure low and 
avoid excessive cardiac work. He was being  watched over by the staff in Island A 
prior to transfer to Island B. He couldnt  receive the best treatment in Island A, which  
would have been to inspect the state of his arteries with a catheter with a view to 
finding and treating  arterial narrowing. But URV thinks receiving such  treatment was 
unlikely to make him much better  apart from marginally reducing his chance of 
suffering a catastrophic heart attack.  If Mr Bs condition  remained unchanged whilst 
he was in Island  A, the longer this went on the lower  the chances  of a sudden  
deterioration.
Mr B didnt  survive the flight arranged  by his family and passed away  shortly  
afterwards.
The medical information available showed  Mr B was very ill, had lost significant heart 
function and was susceptible to multiple potential complications. 
The treating  team  could have accelerated Mr Bs transfer for an angiogram if it was 
thought best, or if Mr B deteriorated. 
The public hospital on the island of Island B was best equipped  to treat Mr B. Only 
one of the H-Groups hospitals had a haemodynamic suite and if Mr B had suffered 
renal complications following heart surgery, as he might, that hospital  lacked a 
dialysis unit. 
The transfer to the hospital  in Island B would have taken place on a short  low-lying 
flight which would be less stressful for Mr B than a two-sector longer haul flight  to the 
UK. 
They had serious concerns  about  H-Group and whether they would act in Mr Bs best 
interests; they might undertake surgical interventions for financial gain when they 
lacked expertise. 
They were surprised  that I questioned their judgement that H-Group  had a poor 
reputation. 
There was evidence  that H-Group subjected patients to expensive treatment which  it 
was not clear was necessary and for which payment  was extracted in circumstances 
where the policyholders felt threatened and frightened. 
They have invested significantly in a campaign  to educate policyholders  and potential  
customers as regards  the practices of private  medical facilities in the country  Mr B 
was visiting including  the Philosophies section  on their website.  
They were entitled to rely on the advice of their medical team.
Their Chief Medical  Officer  and his colleague have experience  in aviation medicine 
as well as personal knowledge and experience of Island C and the other Islands.
The concerns  of Mr Bs family, whilst understandable, were not fully informed or 
based on medical experience. URVs decision to rely on their medical  teams  advice  
was entirely rational  and my decision to the contrary cannot be supported.  
Ref: DRN047991419The exclusion of private  treatment unless approved by the insurer  is a common  
exclusion in the travel insurance  market. 
My conclusion  that their decision was flawed to the extent that it was a decision that 
no reasonable insurer, acting reasonably, would have taken, cannot be supported or 
justified.
They do not agree  with my analysis of the legal position but they think  the key 
question is whether URV  fulfilled  their regulatory obligations to treat their customer  
fairly. URV did so because the judgement of its medical team was the best course of 
action for Mr B was for him to get stronger in Island A and then be moved to Island B. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide what is fair and reasonable in this case  and in doing so I am to take into 
account relevant  law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider  to have  been good industry practice  at the 
relevant time.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I am entitled to look at all the evidence  and I dont  
consider that the fact that some of the individuals in this case were doctors who gave advice 
that was expressed  in terms  of medical risk prevents me from examining all the evidence. 
Nor have  I found  that, on the particular  facts of this complaint,  its medical context has 
prevented me from being able to reach a decision that I am satisfied is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
Ive reviewed all of the further arguments  and information but Ill only refer to those matters 
which I think are central to my decision.  I think the key points can be summarised as: 
The involvement of the General Medical  Council (GMC) 
URVs decision not to repatriate  Mr B by air ambulance 
URVs decision not to move Mr B to a private  facility 
Ill now explain why Im upholding  this complaint and why the further representations havent 
changed my thoughts about the outcome  of this complaint. 
the involvement of the General Medical Council 
The representatives of Mr B have referred to the investigation by the General Medical 
Council into one of URVs medical  team. Theyve  said that the GMC  has referred allegations  
against the doctor to the regulatory tribunal (the MPTS)  in respect of his handling of a 
number of cases, including this one. 
Ref: DRN047991420Whether or not that doctor is fit to practice or has otherwise breached  professional standards 
is a different question to the issues I must consider. Therefore, it is not clear  what  bearing  
those proceedings  will have on the issues Im deciding;  and I dont know how they are going  
to be decided. So, I do not think it is fair or reasonable for me to attach any weight to the 
existence of the proceedings  in the decision I need to make. 
URVs decision not to repatriate  Mr B by air ambulance
URV says that the advice from the medical  team was based  upon its review of the medical 
reports by the treating  hospital and their conversations  with the treating clinicians. They  say 
Mr B was very ill, had lost significant heart function and was susceptible  to multiple 
complications. 
URV also say the preferred treatment for Mr B was to keep his blood pressure low and that 
he was being  managed  and monitored by the medical staff. URV say there  was no report of 
a deterioration  in his condition and that the likelihood of successful intervention following 
investigative treatment was low. URV also said that a flight to the UK was dangerous for Mr 
B, they didnt think hed cope with the stress  of the flight and he was likely to die on the flight  
or a few days afterwards.  
The treating  team, who were of course themselves doctors and had the advantage  and 
immediate responsibility  of having Mr B in their care, raised specific concerns with URV 
about their facilitys ability to take care of Mr B and were repeatedly recommending  
repatriation via air ambulance. 
As I explained in my provisional decision the treating  doctor highlighted this in calls and 
reports to URV including making the following comments in a phone  call: 
Look, the air ambulance is so much  better  than here. He is not even being  monitored 
here, as I do not have  a monitor for him. Not even  his saturation levels  are being  
monitored, I dont  know if you are understanding what I am saying we live next to 
Africa, we live next to Africa we do not have catheterisation. 
This was reiterated in a call on 20 February  between URV and the treating doctor.  The 
doctor recommended repatriation to the UK and said there was a months wait for 
catheterisation. Following  the call, the treating  doctor  sent a report  to URV  which  included  
details of treatment,  diagnosis and test results  and said: 
Plan: I am sending a report to the travel  insurance company for repatriation by air 
ambulance. The patient required catheterisation prior to a commercial  flight.  We do 
not have catheterisation on our island. 
The treating  hospitals  view is further  evidenced  in its report dated 2 March 2018  in which  the 
doctor said the plan was: 
Sent report to insurance company to proceed  with their repatriation  in accordance 
with the familys wishes and the request  of their insurance company. The patient is to 
be transferred by air ambulance and transferred to a centre with a capacity to carry 
out angioplasty. 
Ref: DRN047991421I think the treating  hospital made  it very clear why they didnt think it was in Mr Bs best 
interests to stay there  and that waiting in the country  where he was would leave him at risk 
of complications. 
URVs position is that they formed a medical  opinion  which  caused  it to override the treating 
teams view that Mr B should  be repatriated. Ive attached  more  weight to what URV said 
and did during the time Mr B was in hospital and seeking assistance  from his insurer as well 
as the contemporary  evidence  available to me. Whilst  there  were  discussions between the 
treating doctor and URV  I cant  see that there  was ever any firm consensus  that Mr B was 
best left in their facility,  unmonitored and without  access to the treatment they were 
recommending. 
 
The treating  doctor queried why the insurer wouldnt cover  Mr Bs transfer by air ambulance.  
URVs doctor said: 
Yes I understand your point. Many people do that, but we have two problems here. 
Firstly, the insurance policy is not a private treatment insurance policy. If this man 
needs an air ambulance after the catheterisation, we will provide this for him. At this 
moment, I, with. Being  an air doctor since 82 the truth is there are commercial 
reasons to do the transfers and percentages that doctors provide the assistance 
company with. However, we do not do this. I dont know if you have  been  reading the 
newspapers, but we have lost a fellow doctor,  not personally but a colleague,  PhD 
who made a mistake that any of us could have  made. This mistake was sentenced 
as manslaughter  and she was sentenced  for it most of us are now uneasy. 
 the fact that this man is coming from England  has nothing  to do with it, on the 
contrary  according to the single  market treaty this man should  be treated and I am 
sure you are doing this, like any other patient  as if he was from Island A. There,  there 
should not be any difference.
URVs objections to repatriating Mr B as they were raised at the time concerned the nature 
of his insurance cover, a risk of criminal prosecution,  and that the countrys health system 
should treat him as if he were  from Island A. But none of these points form any part of URVs 
present justification  for not having  repatriated him. 
As to URVs doctors argument that they could be prosecuted for manslaughter for 
repatriating Mr B if he didnt survive. Im not persuaded  this was a valid concern in 
circumstances where  Mr B himself,  his family  and, most importantly, his treating team  were  
all strongly in favour of his repatriation being  in his best interests. 
Later in the call URVs doctor said he didnt believe that Mr B was deteriorating  as the family  
had an angle.  In response the treating doctor  said Mr B was deteriorating from a 
neurological point  of view and that he was disorientated  and had a bit of dementia.  
Towards the end of the call URVs doctor said that they would consider two factors  how 
long a patient had been on the waiting list and the risks the patient presented. He queried 
whether the severity of a condition  would  affect the amount of time Mr B waited or whether 
he must just wait on the list. In response  the treating doctor said they didnt have a 
haemodynamic suite in their hospital,  it would  depend on the waiting list and that if it was 
something very, very urgent Mr B would be transferred. He went  on to say that as there were 
other patients Mr B might still need  to wait one or two weeks.   
Ref: DRN047991422As to URVs argument that it was in Mr Bs best interests  to stay put, the medical  reports 
dont suggest  that Mr Bs treating team expected his condition  to improve  if he was left in 
Island A. Nor do they support URVs view that Mr B wouldnt have benefited from the 
procedures and monitoring  the treating team wanted to offer him, but couldnt. If it had been 
right to form the view that Mr B could not be much assisted by the proposed  interventions, 
then there  might indeed  have been  no justification  for moving him to the UK (or elsewhere). 
But in this case the treating team thought  these  interventions were  necessary and 
appropriate and URV didnt  dispute that. Instead, URV argues, if they were necessary, the 
countrys public  healthcare system  should  undertake  them. Given  the delay before that was 
likely to occur, I think that that was unfair to Mr B. 
Ive also taken into account the evidence  in relation to waiting  times  for treatment in the UK 
compared to the country where Mr B was. This was something that URVs doctor also 
discussed with the treating team. He said that the waiting times in the country  where Mr B 
was were shorter than in the UK. But theres  no supporting evidence that was investigated or 
confirmed by URV as part of their decision-making process at the time.  In fact, Mr B could 
have accessed  treatment in the UK within a very short period of time and Ive seen evidence 
confirming that to be the case. 
URVs decision not to move Mr B to a private  hospital
URV says that neither of the H-Group hospitals  in the Islands had a haemodynamic  suite, 
which could have undertaken  the necessary interventions, and that the public hospital had 
the best facilities. In response to my provisional decision URV said,  in summary, that their 
concern was that H-Group  might overestimate  its expertise  and find it difficult  to balance its 
additional motive  to profit from surgical intervention with what  was in Mr Bs best interests  
medically. They provided information they said supports their position.  
The information provided is largely anecdotal  evidence consisting of social  media posts, an 
email chain and newspaper  articles. Of the six cases  referred to within the index of news 
articles five relate to issues  in the Caribbean and Mexico and only one to the Islands 
(although not Island  A). I also note that the article in relation to the Islands relates to a case 
over five years ago. The email chain  provided is from February 2020 and relates  to a 
possible case of coronavirus in Mexico.  The main focus of the email  chain relates  to 
H-Groups billing practices and issues around  payment. So, this information doesnt change 
my thoughts about  the overall outcome of this complaint as none  of the articles relate to the 
hospital Mr Bs family wanted him to move to and theres no specific  evidence  that Mr B was 
likely to receive a poor standard of care there. 
In response to my provisional decision URV also highlighted the difference  between the bed 
sizes and the various facilities at the H-Group hospitals and their rationale  behind the public 
hospital being the best facility for Mr B. But, at the relevant time, URV did not investigate 
what care they could provide, nor whether they could  at least  properly monitor  Mr Bs 
condition in a way that the Island A hospital  told URV it could not.  
In my provisional decision I concluded that it was most likely H-Group  could at least have 
properly monitored  Mr Bs condition (having a department  specialising in cardiac care). URV  
havent suggested or provided evidence demonstrating otherwise. And theres also been no 
persuasive explanation for why they thought  H-Group would have overestimated  its own 
expertise or evidence  that theyd have  been  motivated by profit  to subject Mr B to 
inappropriate surgery.
Ref: DRN047991423I also find it difficult to reconcile URVs concerns  at the time that H-Group  would bill for 
inappropriate surgery with its more  recent  detailed information suggesting  that H-Group 
could not treat Mr B because it lacked the facilities to do so. It seems more likely  to me, 
based on the evidence presented, that URV  was implementing  a general policy  not to use
H-Group hospitals. 
Even if I accepted what URV says about  the necessity of transfer  to the public hospital  rather 
than a private facility,  I remain unpersuaded that this was treating Mr B fairly. As I explained 
in my provisional decision,  in a situation  where  URV refuses to exercise  its discretion to 
repatriate and refuses  private care, for example because the only private care available is 
via H-Group this leaves  a consumer, like Mr B, in a position where they are reliant on public 
healthcare and the associated waiting times of that region. 
In Mr Bs case  this meant he was expected  to wait for four weeks for further investigation 
and treatment as that was the standard waiting time in the Islands. This means  URV  simply 
directed him to receive  medical care under the reciprocal health agreement, as if he was a 
citizen of the country he was visiting. Thats  something hed be entitled to anyway  as an EU 
citizen, who had travelled without insurance. 
In line with the FCAs guidance, which Ive referred  to above, Id have expected URV to have 
taken such issues into account  when deciding whether to offer policyholders,  such  as Mr B, 
cover in tourist destinations where these  issues are apparent, such as the Islands Mr B was 
visiting. 
I remain persuaded that, at the very least, URV  ought to make it clear  in their policy 
documentation so that their customers can make  an informed  choice  about  this when 
travelling to destinations that are likely to be affected  by issues  of this nature.
Essentially selling travel cover for these  islands, whilst operating  an undisclosed company 
policy that shut out a major  healthcare  provider there,  left URV policyholders exposed in a 
way that they could  not have appreciated when  they chose travel insurance with URV. And, 
as I said in my provisional decision,  in Mr Bs case this left him, through  no fault of his own,  
in a position where the public treatment  wasnt  available  for a month  but URV wouldnt 
transfer him to any of the local private hospitals,  whether  for proper monitoring of his 
condition or (to the extent available)  treatment, or to repatriate him. I dont think  that was 
treating him fairly. 
I do acknowledge that there are some themes in the issues raised within  the material  
provided by URV. In the experience of our service its acknowledged that H-Group  can be an 
expensive option  for insurers  and that it may charge  higher  prices  than other  healthcare 
providers. Its also not uncommon to see issues with foreign hospitals  over-charging  or 
putting pressure  on consumers to pay directly. 
However, in our services  experience other insurers respond proactively to these challenges 
when operating within the market, for example by working  with H-Groups recognised agents 
or working  directly with the hospitals billing department. And, they manage to do so in a way 
which enables their customers to receive a good  level of service  and access  to the treatment 
they need. 
Ref: DRN047991424Ultimately, knowing that it is common for UK tourists to be directed to H-Group  facilities in 
certain areas, including  the islands Mr B was visiting, it is URVs responsibility to ensure that 
adequate measures are in place  to enable it to treat its consumers fairly with due regard to 
their interests. The likely cost of medical expenses is something the insurer  can consider 
when deciding to offer cover to travel  to a particular destination and they are entitled to 
reflect that in their pricing of the policy. As Ive outlined above,  in our services  experience  
this generally means that insurers work  with H-Group through a meaningful cost containment 
process and appropriately confirming cover  when necessary, despite the expense.   
Overall, Im not persuaded that URV  did meet their regulatory obligations to treat Mr B fairly 
for the reasons I outlined in my provisional decision, and above. I remain satisfied that the 
discretion to repatriate or move  Mr B, set out within the insurance  contract, has not been 
exercised properly in accordance with the regulatory  obligations that I have identified and, 
generally, in line with what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Having reviewed the further evidence and points raised by URV I still havent found URVs 
reasons for taking  the course  of action they did persuasive in the circumstances of this case. 
I dont think theyve adequately explained or justified why they thought the risk of leaving 
Mr B untreated in Island  A was more acceptable  than the risk of bringing him home  or 
sourcing an alternative  hospital where he could  access, at least, proper monitoring, if not 
treatment. 
Mr B was in a hospital that couldnt treat his condition  and didnt even have the facilities  to 
monitor him properly. The lack of facilities was made clear to URV during various calls with 
the hospital. And it was also made  clear  that (unless Mr Bs condition deteriorated to the 
point that it became so critical he would be permitted to jump  the queue  for treatment) there  
was going to be a wait of at least a couple of weeks, and most likely a month,  before hed be 
able to access treatment  within  the local health  service. 
putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that the personal representatives of the late 
Mr B accept our final decision I direct URV to pay £7000 to the estate of the late Mr B for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B by the unreasonable  delays  in repatriating Mr B 
and the service he received.
my final decision
Im upholding the estate  of the late Mr Bs complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG 
and direct them to put things  right in the way Ive outlined above.  Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask the personal representatives of the late 
Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN0479914