K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Cumberland Building Society  (CBS) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy in 1998  at the same  time as taking out a joint-mortgage.  
They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in a branch of CBS. The policy provided cover 
only for Mr W - Mrs W wasnt protected by the policy.  
The PPI covered Mr W for sickness, accident and unemployment  subject to its exclusions  
and limitations. It initially  offered to repay  £250  a month towards  Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim, but I see this was later increased to £300 per 
month in 2003  at their request. At the time of the 1998 sale,  it cost around  £15 a month. 
At the time,  Mr W was employed as an assistant  manager. I note that in our questionnaire 
Mr and Mrs W were asked to fill out about  their complaint, there  were  a number of 
inaccuracies which I completely accept  are likely to be due to the passage of time. I have no 
doubt Mr and Mrs W have given their best recollections of the events as they remember 
them.
However, they said Mr W was entitled to between 3  6 months  of sick pay with his job and 
also that he had redundancy  protection. But having seen a document  provided by Mr Ws 
employer at the time, I think  he would have only been entitled only to statutory sick pay 
(SSP), which is the most  basic form of protection. I also note hed only been in his job for a 
short time, so any redundancy protection he had would have been very limited, in my view.  
I see that the same questionnaire said Mr W suffered from two medical  conditions  at the time 
of the sale. This conflicted with the certain other information we have from the sale, so we 
checked this. The company representing Mr W clarified that the medical conditions  outlined 
werent actually present  at the time of the 1998  sale, although Mr W had previously suffered 
a broken leg, in 1992, which Ive taken account  of. 
So, to be clear, I have good grounds to assess this complaint  on the basis of Mr W being in 
good general health in 1998. I also take note that he had some life insurance  in place, 
although this covers a different eventuality to the PPI.
CBS has sent us information  to show that the joint-mortgage account opened in 1998 and 
closed in 2006. Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made lengthy  and substantial  
representations on their behalf.  I will not restate  them all here, but I have  read and 
considered them all carefully. In summary,  Mr and Mrs Ws representative says:
CBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ws representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN04976612The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means CBS should  have told 
Mr and Mrs W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means CBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs W and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs W received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006 That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. There were  a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which  I am 
satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General 
Ref: DRN04976613Insurance Business Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of 
Insurance Companies) other than Registered  Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI 
Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like CBS at the time. Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and these  other 
publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws case. There was also the Mortgage Code which was a 
voluntary code followed by subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While 
predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance related 
commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so CBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If CBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether CBS gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
Ref: DRN04976614misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs W, I must then go on to consider  whether  and to what  extent  Mr and Mrs W 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs W 
and CBS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs W know they had a choice?
CBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. Ive looked carefully at the 
application form they filled out for their mortgage  and see there was a section that was 
entitled MORTGAGE PAYMENT PROTECTION . I therefore think  it would have been clear  
enough to Mr and Mrs W what this part of the form was about, and it provided an overall  
option as to whether or not PPI was required. The option to have PPI was selected.
It then set out two further boxes that needed  to be ticked if either  or both  applicants  
wanted this type of PPI cover. It also allowed for the applicants  to write in the amount of PPI 
monthly benefit they wanted to buy. Mr Ws box was ticked and the cover  level of £250 per 
month was handwritten in to the relevant place. Mrs Ws box about having PPI was left 
unticked. 
I therefore think its very clear that Mr W required  PPI and Mrs W didnt. I also think its clear 
that Mr and Mrs W knew the policy  was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue 
pressure. I note that in 2003 Mr W asked for the monthly benefit amount to be increased to 
£300 and his PPI premiums  went up accordingly.
So, I think these circumstances all give a clear  and strong indication that Mr and Mrs W 
engaged in the sale process and wanted  to have PPI cover  for their mortgage. My finding is 
that CBS properly obtained their consent.
did CBS provide advice?
Both CBS and Mr and Mrs W agree  that advice was provided during this sale. This means 
CBS had to advise Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
Ref: DRN04976615the advice
It seems  Mr and Mrs W themselves recall a discussion about the PPI taking place. While I 
dont know what was actually discussed  in the meeting, the evidence  suggests that CBS 
took some  steps  to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Mr and 
Mrs W. The adviser had information  about some  of Mr and Mrs Ws financial circumstances 
as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs statement was 
probably completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs W had a need for the policy  
by asking questions  about their wider  circumstances such as any health issues and existing  
means  I cant say the adviser did enough  to establish whether Mr W would have  been  
caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations  which might have meant the policy did 
not fully meet his and Mrs Ws needs.  
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im therefore not persuaded CBS did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs W given their 
circumstances. So, Im not persuaded CBS advised  with reasonable care and skill. But while  
Im not persuaded CBS did all it should have  done to make  sure the policy  was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs W, I do think its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
them. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs W had a need  for the policy  it seems likely  that their ability  to continue 
to meet  the mortgage  repayments would have been put under strain if Mr W was not 
working for an extended period  of time.  For example, Mr W would not have received 
any sick pay (other than SSP) if he was unable to work  due to illness.  And as Ive 
said, his redundancy  benefits were likely to have been quite limited. As regards  any 
savings, I note Mr and Mrs W said they had some they could fall back on. I havent 
seen evidence of the money they say they had at the time, but of course, I take their 
recollections into account. On the other  hand, Ive also seen evidence that they had a 
personal loan outstanding  at this time too. So, considering everything, I think their 
financial situation was such  that the PPI policy would have helped  Mr and Mrs W 
manage the consequences  if Mr W, the main earner, was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs W. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs W. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ws employment or occupation which would  have made 
it difficult for him to claim. I note the broken leg Mr W suffered pre-dated the sale by 
some years,  so this wouldnt have been caught by the policy limitations  and 
exclusions. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or 
back problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr W be disabled or unemployed for 60 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Ws overall  
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs W be unable to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  CBS gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what CBS 
Ref: DRN04976616was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W were  given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr W was unable to work  through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs W 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be. I see the costs were included in a quotation  used during the 
sale and which I have  a copy  of.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  CBS gave sufficient 
information about all the exclusions or limitations  before  Mr and Mrs W agreed to take out 
the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs W, Im not persuaded 
CBS did enough  to present all the information  about  the policy it was recommending in a 
way that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded CBS gave Mr and Mrs W all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ws. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ws representative  considers  to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs W have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that CBS ought to have done either. 
Ref: DRN04976617what effect did CBSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs W? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs W suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that CBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
W. So I have gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr 
and Mrs W suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether or 
not Mr and Mrs W would have still taken  out the policy, had CBS done  things properly.  
While Im not persuaded CBS took all the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs W, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs W have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if CBS had explained things properly, 
Mr and Mrs W would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy  
in any event. Mr and Mrs W say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should 
presume this to be the case  given the significant  failings identified  above. Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs W had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when CBS advised  them  that there  was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product to cover Mr W. But they made that decision based on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting may not have been exactly what  
they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.  
And, as Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs W were given about the cost 
was clear, although the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations  
and exclusions might not have been as clear as it should have been.   
I am persuaded CBS made clear what Mr and Mrs W would get back  in return  in the event 
Mr W made a successful  claim. I say this because there was most likely a discussion about  
the PPI cover and Mr W was invited to choose  both whether  to have the policy and how 
much benefit  he and Mrs W would like to have if Mr W needed to make a claim. So, possibly 
the most  significant  differences  between what Mr and Mrs W thought they had bought  and 
what they actually  bought  were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating any physical or mental condition or disease  
known or should have  been  reasonably known of at the start date or for which  
treatment was received  12 months  before the start date;  
Any chronic or continuing disease  known at the start date;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee;
Ref: DRN04976618The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr W be unable to 
do his own job, or any other  job for which he was reasonably  qualified to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and/or exclusions above might  well have 
caused Mr and Mrs W pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the 
policy wasnt as good as they thought, and they might have decided  not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs W from 
taking out the policy.  
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr W was eligible for its benefits  
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr W wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr W didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs W would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs W had known Mr W could  only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both 
his job and any other job which in the insurers view he was reasonably  qualified  for, it might 
have played into their thinking  about  what they would have done. And I accept  it may have  
given them pause for thought  although  its possible  they may not have been  overly 
concerned given that if Mr W was unable (through  disability) to carry on his own occupation 
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
CBS says it told Mr and Mrs W that any claim made  would be limited  to a 24-month  period. 
And 24-months was a much longer period than Mr W would have received any sick pay for 
and he would have  had very limited  redundancy, as Ive already pointed  out. So, in the 
circumstances, I consider it likely Mr and Mrs W would have thought  a policy  that paid up to 
24 monthly mortgage payments would have been  of benefit to him and Mrs W and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr W be unable to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs W would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr W was made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs W would  have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN04976619Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs W would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs W found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs W believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs W in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its much  more likely than not that they would still 
have taken out the PPI had they been  given clear,  fair and not misleading information about 
the policy they were  buying for Mr W. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable 
in those circumstances, to conclude CBS should  pay Mr and Mrs W compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs W think CBS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
CBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why CBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  CBS gave Mr and Mrs W, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1998  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find CBS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs W and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that CBS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
Ref: DRN049766110and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs W in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0497661