K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms S complain  that Lloyds Bank plc didnt treat them fairly when they received a 
large payment from overseas into their joint account.   
background
Mr S was due to receive an inheritance  from the estate of a family member. The payment of 
over US$200,000 was to be sent from the USA. He told the bank that he was expecting the 
payment and discussed exchange rates and charges. 
Another family member  was due the same  inheritance as Mr S. But, when the two payments 
were made, Mr S identified  that, once the US dollar  payments had been  converted into 
sterling, he had received  some £1,500 less than his relative.  The relative uses a different 
bank. 
Lloyds explained  that it cant guarantee an exchange rate, and that they fluctuate throughout 
the day. So, it used the interbank rate at the time it received the funds  from the US bank and 
applied its own margin of 2%. There was also a £7 charge for receiving a non-sterling  
payment of more than £100.
Mr and Ms S say they werent  told about the 2% margin and feel that they have  received  
less than they should have done.  And when Lloyds didnt accept that, they referred their 
complaint to this service.  One of our investigators looked into it, but agreed  with the bank 
that it had correctly calculated the amount to be credited to their account. Mr and Ms S didnt  
accept the investigators  assessment, however, and asked that an ombudsman review  
matters  as the final stage in our process.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Im broadly I 
agreement with the investigator, and for the same  reasons. 
Ill deal first of all with the £7 charge. This is published in the banks tariff of fees and 
charges, which  would have been  made  available to Mr and Ms S. I accept that they may not 
have checked  that tariff and that they didnt specifically agree to the charge. But by using the 
account they did agree to pay charges and fees that were published from time to time, and 
so they were bound  to pay this fee.
Ill turn now to the main part of the complaint, which  concerns the exchange  rate and the 
margin that Lloyds  applied. The first point I would  make is there is no official exchange 
rate. Rates  change constantly  throughout any given day, and so the exchange rate offered 
to a retail banking customer will usually  depend  on the time that a payment is made or, in 
this case, received. Im satisfied that Lloyds explained that the rate Mr and Ms S received 
would be the prevailing one at the time. 
The rate when Lloyds received the payment  was, it says,  the interbank rate at the time (that 
is, the rate at which banks exchange currency between one another) plus the banks own 
margin of 2%. Thats why Mr Ss relative may have received more  their payment wouldnt 
necessarily have arrived at the same  time,  and their bank may have a different margin  or fee 
structure. But that doesnt mean that Lloyds exchange rate was unfair. 
Ref: DRN02484172Mr and Ms S say that Lloyds should have  told them about the 2% margin.  Im afraid I dont 
agree with them about that. That margin is part of the calculation the bank makes to work  out 
the exchange rate it will give its customers and which,  as it has explained, fluctuates. I dont 
believe Lloyds was under  any duty to explain that the rate it would use would be the 
interbank rate plus 2%. I would add that it would be surprising if a bank didnt apply a 
margin, since it would then in effect be buying  and selling  currency  at the same price.  
Lloyds has provided  information about the range of currency movements on the day, and the 
interbank rate used  to calculate  the exchange rate used for Mr and Ms Ss funds. Im 
satisfied that its done  enough  to enable them to understand  how the money  was converted.  
The interbank rate used  was in fact a little less than the mid-point between the high and low 
rate for the day  indicating  that Lloyds calculated the exchange  rate as it said it did.
Finally, Mr S has suggested that Lloyds should  reimburse him for time spent  dealing  with 
these issues. I havent seen anything to show it agreed to that, but in any event I dont  
believe it would be fair, given my overall findings.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank plc to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and 
Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0248417