K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) have rejected a claim 
hes made to them  under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (section  75).
background
Mr L paid for a villa using a credit  card provided by Creation. He complained  to them  about 
the quality of the accommodation as he said section 75 gave him a like claim against them 
as against the provider  of the villa.
Creation offered to refund 25% of the accommodation cost but Mr L was disappointed with 
their response and therefore  referred  his complaint to this service.
Whilst his complaint was under review here, Creation raised a further issue. They said that in 
order for a section 75 claim to succeed there  needed to be a relevant relationship  between  
the debtor  (Mr L); the creditor  (Creation)  and the supplier (the landlord). But they noted that 
Mr L had made payments  to the holiday rental company (Ill call them  H) and they said this 
broke the necessary chain and meant they had no relationship with the supplier and 
therefore no liability for the claim.
Our adjudicator agreed that this relationship broke  the debtor, creditor, supplier chain and 
that Mr Ls claim could therefore not succeed.
But Mr L disagreed.  He said the landlord had sent him a payment request and he wondered  
what the point  of section 75 was if it didnt  give him protection.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L but I agree with the adjudicators view of this complaint  and Im 
not upholding it. Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr L made a claim through  them  for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
Ref: DRN06774292the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
One of those circumstances is that there  must be a valid debtor, creditor, supplier 
relationship. So if I was satisfied that the contract  Mr L had with the supplier  had been  
breached because the accommodation wasnt satisfactory, and if I was satisfied that there 
was a valid debtor,  creditor, supplier  relationship,  then Id ask Creation to take some action 
to remedy the situation.
But here Creation  argues that it hasnt got a relationship with the supplier of the 
accommodation and I agree.  The payment was made to the holiday rental  company, H, and 
not to the supplier.
I can understand Mr Ls frustration that this means he cannot raise a claim through  his credit  
card provider. Ill try to explain why as I understand Section 75 is a little technical.  It was 
established as it was understood that the legal right a consumer  has against a merchant  
may not be enough  protection  for them. So section 75 established a liability on the provider 
of credit as it was believed they would have more leverage over the merchant to resolve the 
issue and would, in any case, be less inhibited  by the expense  of suing the merchant.
But here if Creation  needed to sue the merchant it would  find itself in difficulties as it doesnt 
have a trading  relationship with him. It has a relationship with H instead.
So whilst I understand Mr Ls concerns Im afraid  it would not be fair to ask Creation to take 
responsibility. I believe that Creation have been prepared  to stand by their original  offer of 
compensation and I think, in the circumstances, thats a reasonable resolution. But Im afraid 
I wont be asking them to take any other  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0677429