K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Nationwide Building Society  sent their mortgage product switch 
documentation to a third party. Mr and Mrs L would like compensation  for the stress  and 
inconvenience involved.
background
Mrs L had a joint bank  account with a third party. Mr and Mrs L have a mortgage  with 
Nationwide and applied  for a product switch.  On 25 September 2018 Nationwide  sent the 
product switch offer to the third partys address.
Nationwide accepted that it had incorrectly updated Mr and Mrs Ls address  and sent the 
letter about  the mortgage product to the wrong  address. Nationwide  offered to pay Mr and 
Mrs L £400 to include  compensation  in respect  of other matters. Our investigator  indicated 
that he was dealing with the mortgage  complaint only and felt that compensation of £400  
should be payable  in respect  of that alone.  Nationwide disagreed and asked  for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted that Nationwide made an error when it sent out confirmation about a product  
switch to the address of a third party. The third party was a joint account holder with Mrs L 
but on an account not related to the mortgage which Mrs L held with Mr L. So, the third party  
should not have received this confidential information. 
Nationwide disagrees  with our investigators  assessment and says that given  that the third-
party is known to them I think its important  to remember that the product offer included 
relatively little information  that wouldnt already have been known to them  such  as the 
amount owed, the product, the account number  and the provider. 
Its not clear to me how the third party would have known, before getting  the letter, the 
amount of the mortgage loan, the mortgage  term, the value of the house, the amount of their 
repayments and the cashback Mr and Mrs L were going to get which was the information 
contained in the product switch offer. 
I further understand that Mrs L and the third party werent on speaking  terms at the time. I 
believe its reasonable to assume  that the disclosure of information to a third party who is 
known to Mrs L and whom she wasnt on speaking terms with, may be more  distressing than 
disclosure to someone whom she didnt  know.
I can understand that the disclosure of such information at the time would have caused Mr 
and Mrs L a fair degree of upset and I believe that £400 would represent fair compensation 
for that. On that basis I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN08019272my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr 
and Mrs L £400  in respect of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 March  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0801927