K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited obtained  a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) against him before  he had a chance to set up a payment plan.
background
Mr C had a credit card debt which Cabot bought in September  2015.  Cabot  wrote  to him to 
let him know  and asked  that he contact them to set up a payment plan. They tried to contact 
him in writing and by phone on a number of occasions but were unsuccessful, so they 
instructed their solicitors  to try to collect the debt. The solicitors wrote  to Mr C on 
18 January 2016  asking  for contact or they would proceed with legal action against him. 
They said that Cabot  may  be prepared to accept payment by instalments. If this is your 
preferred option,  please complete the enclosed questionnaireby 1 February  2016.
Mr C tried to call the solicitors several  times and was promised calls back. But as Mr C 
couldnt take calls at work, the call back attempts were unsuccessful. Mr C made  a payment 
of £30 on 30 January  2016 via an automated system. But as no further  contact was made  
with the solicitors, they issued legal proceedings on 12 February 2016. 
Again Mr C attempted to phone and calls back made but with no success. On 
23 February 2016, the solicitors received Mr Cs admission form from the courts.  As Mr C 
had admitted the debt, the court issued a CCJ against him and ordered  payments of £50 per 
month  in line with his offer on the admission form. As no payments were received,  the 
solicitors applied for an attachment of earnings,  but the court decided  it was unaffordable.
The solicitors continued to manage  the debt until they returned it to Cabot in March 2017.  In 
January and February 2018, Cabot wrote  to Mr C again about  the debt but received no 
response, so they began to look for a new contact address. In July 2018 Mr C complained to 
the solicitors about the CCJ. The solicitors issued their final response in August 2018  and 
stood by their actions. 
Mr C remained  unhappy so referred  his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked  
into it. She said Mr C had been given the opportunity to reach an agreement  with Cabot 
before the debt was passed  to the solicitors. And once the debt was with solicitors, they had 
tried to return his calls but were unsuccessful.  The solicitors had given Mr C the option  to set 
up an instalment plan using the questionnaire attached  to their letter of 18 January  2016, but 
that wasnt done. She acknowledged Mr C had made a payment of £30 but said there  was 
no indication  this was to be an ongoing arrangement.  Our investigator said Mr C had used 
his new address on court papers in September 2016 and Cabot could have updated his 
details at that point.  But she said it was still Mr Cs responsibility to ensure his creditors  had 
correct contact details  for him. 
Overall, she said Cabot  hadnt treated Mr C unfairly. Mr C didnt  agree  and said he didnt 
receive the questionnaire  or hed have completed it. As there was no agreement,  the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN08854792Mr C has accepted that hes liable for the debt.  The CCJ was applied by the court after 
receipt of his admission  form so I cant consider  that. But I can look into whether Cabot 
treated Mr C fairly in the lead up to that. 
Ive seen copies  of numerous letters to Mr C from Cabot and their solicitors.  These  include  a 
letter from Cabot dated 14 October 2015 which explained theyd bought the debt and were 
seeking repayment. Further letters were sent on 26 November  2015 and 24 December 2015. 
The December letter said as there had been no contact, Mr Cs account had been selected 
for possible legal action. It went on to say their typical approach would be to appoint a 
solicitorand then to make an application for a County  Court Judgement. Ive seen nothing 
to suggest Mr C contacted Cabot to discuss repayment following any of the letters  they sent. 
On 18 January 2016, Cabots solicitor wrote to Mr C. They  explained that theyd been asked 
to recover the debt by 1 February 2016. As quoted earlier in this letter, they said Cabot may 
be prepared to accept  instalments and referred to an enclosed questionnaire to arrange that. 
Mr C has acknowledged that he received  the letter but says he didnt receive  the 
questionnaire. On balance I think its more likely than not that the questionnaire was sent 
with the letter because its referred to in it.
Theres no dispute that following receipt of the solicitors letter, Mr C tried to contact them to 
discuss the debt.  And Ive seen that the solicitors tried to return his calls.  But as this was 
unsuccessful, no agreement was reached regarding a way forward. So the solicitors applied  
to the court  for a judgement on 12 February  2016 on behalf  of Cabot. I dont think the 
solicitors were wrong to do so. They received  Mr Cs admission of the debt from the court on 
23 February 2016. In the admission, Mr C agreed  he was liable for the debt and made an 
offer to pay £50 per month, but no payments were made.
Overall, I think Cabot  has treated Mr C fairly. They ensured he was aware  of the debt and 
asked for his proposals to repay it before  passing it to their solicitors. The solicitors then 
gave Mr C further chances to reach agreement but as none was reached they applied to the 
court for judgement.  The court decided to apply the judgement.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0885479