K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) have misled him 
in relation to whether a promotional offer was available on his account. 
background
Mr A took out an AMEX  gold card in December 2017, as he says he was attracted by a 
promotional offer whereby he would earn welcome bonus of 20,000  points if he spent  
£2,000 within the first three months of the card being issued.  
Mr A says he tracked his spending during this period by way of a bonus tracker on his 
online account, which told him how much more he had to spend in order to qualify for the 
welcome bonus. But once he reached £2,000,  he says that the bonus tracker  reset  to zero 
and didnt display  any points balance.  
Mr A complained to AMEX, who explained  that part of the eligibility criteria was that a 
customer cannot have  held another AMEX card within the past six months  of the new 
account being opened. And because Mr A already  held an additional charge card at the time 
he opened his new account, AMEX explained  that he was exempt from the welcome  offer. 
Mr A acknowledged  that he hadnt  closed his previous account, but felt hed been misled  by 
AMEX as he says the bonus tracker on his online account led him to believe he was eligible 
for the bonus.  Mr A also says that if hadnt been led to believe he was eligible, he wouldnt  
have spent £2,000 on the card.  
AMEX said that the bonus tracker would not have shown any activity because  Mr A wasnt 
eligible to earn these points, but that the tracker would still remain visible  on his online 
account (albeit in a dormant state) as he had accrued a welcome bonus before on a 
previous card. AMEX also said Mr As statements wouldve shown that he was not accruing 
any welcome bonus, so they do not feel he has been misled. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think there was enough evidence  to 
suggest that the tracker actually showed  that any bonus points were being accrued. And 
given that Mr A did not meet  the eligibility  criteria, the investigator did not think it would be 
fair to ask AMEX to now reward  the points or their cash equivalent. Mr A disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
AMEX say the welcome bonus is reserved for new customers  only,  so any customers that 
have held an account within the previous six months  will not be eligible for the reward. I can 
see this is made clear in the eligibility  criteria, and that Mr A did in fact hold another  account 
within the six month period. So Im satisfied that he was not eligible to earn the reward  
points.
But Mr A says that AMEX  should award him the welcome bonus  points regardless, as he 
feels he was misled  by their online bonus tracker.  He has sent a screenshot  of his online 
Ref: DRN08219752account, which shows that £0 had been  spent towards the welcome bonus, but that £1,982 
had been spent towards the renewal bonus  (which he was eligible for). Mr A says that the 
welcome bonus tracker  was showing  that he was accruing  points up until hed spent £2,000, 
at which  point it reverted  to the £0 it showed  in the screenshot. 
AMEX dispute  that the bonus  tracker  wouldve  shown any activity  however, as the tracker 
itself reflects the welcome bonus  that is being  recorded and accrued in the AMEX account  
system. Theyve shown  that their system does not indicate any such  bonus was being 
earned on Mr As account given  that he didnt qualify, so its highly unlikely the tracker 
wouldve displayed anything different. Mr A is also unable to provide any further  evidence  in 
support of his position. So based purely  on the evidence available,  it would appear more 
likely than not that the tracker was not displaying any activity.
Mr A submits that his banking log would show that he had logged in to his account  over 30 
times throughout the period he thought the welcome  bonus was accruing. But Mr A has 
since closed his account, so AMEX are unable to provide any information  to corroborate this. 
But in any event, I dont  consider that this would be persuasive enough evidence to suggest 
that he had been misled.  I say this because Mr As statements also do not reflect that any 
welcome bonus was being accrued, so I think this also shouldve  been enough to indicate  
that he wasnt eligible  for the bonus, and was not earning points. 
Even if the tracker did show that Mr A was accruing  the welcome  bonus  such that he 
assumed he was eligible, I dont think this has caused him any material loss in any event, or 
that he has relied on the error to his detriment for that matter.  He ultimately wasnt  eligible for 
the reward, and this was made clear from the outset.  
I appreciate that he may have spent £2,000 on his card in anticipation of the points. But the 
reward points are not purchased with this sum, and Mr A has not lost this money.  And it cant  
be said that he has lost the value of the points either as he was never  entitled  to them in the 
first place. The reward is a residual perk of spending  that the customer assumedly  wouldve 
made anyway. And I can see that Mr A paid the balance and closed his account soon after 
he thought hed accrued the reward. So I cannot see that there has been any material loss in 
these circumstances,  even if he thought  he was accruing points despite not being eligible. 
So I do not consider it would  be fair to ask AMEX to now compensate Mr A for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0821975