K821x#15complaint
Miss E complains  that Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) made a 
mistake when it applied  a default  to her credit file.
Miss E was then unhappy with the service that she received from Satsuma when dealing 
with her complaint.
Miss E wants Satsuma to amend her credit file and pay her compensation.
background
Miss E explains that shes not been  able to secure  a mortgage because of information that 
Satsuma has recorded on her credit file. 
Before this service became involved, Satsuma agreed to amend Miss Es credit  file as the 
information about the default wasnt showing correctly. Satsuma also deducted £200 from 
the outstanding balance.  However, Miss Es credit file then wasnt  amended properly.
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Es complaint be upheld.  He asked Satsuma to 
amend Miss Es credit  file and pay her £150. The adjudicator said the compensation 
payment should  be paid directly to Miss E rather than being used to offset the outstanding 
balance on her account.
Satsuma agreed to the recommendation and Miss E accepted it. 
Miss E contacted this service in May 2019 to say that her credit file still hadnt been correctly  
updated. Miss E said that her loan account  had been defaulted  on 2 September  2015 but 
this isnt whats shown  on her credit file. 
Satsuma wrote to Miss E on 7 August 2019 to explain what will happen going  forward.  
Satsuma says that as theres still a balance due on Miss Es account, it will have to submit a 
manual amendment to her credit file each month.  This means  there will be a short  period of 
time during which Miss Es credit  file shows incorrect information. But Satsuma says that the 
amended information will show that the default was applied on 2 September  2015 and that 
Miss E is in a debt management  plan (DMP) to repay the outstanding balance.
Miss E hasnt told us whether shes happy  with this outcome  so the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators recommendation that Satsuma  should  update Miss Es credit file and pay her 
£150 compensation.
Although I can fully appreciate Miss Es sense of frustration about the length of time that the 
Satsuma entry on her credit file hasnt been showing correctly,  I dont  have any evidence to 
suggest that Satsumas mistake is the only reason why Miss E hasnt been able to secure a 
mortgage. Or that the mistake has caused  Miss E any other direct financial loss. 
Ref: DRN02001082Im satisfied that Satsumas earlier balance reduction  of £200 together  with the 
compensation payment of £150  adequately  reflects the impact that the mistake has had on 
Miss E. 
Going forward, Satsuma  says that it will make sure the default and DMP markers are applied  
correctly, although  there  will be a short period of time each month  when this doesnt happen 
until the manual  amendment  goes  through. 
If Miss E notices  any problem  with the Satsuma entries on her credit file in the future, she 
should first complain to Satsuma. But if Satsuma doesnt resolve the problem to her 
satisfaction, Miss E can of course bring  a new complaint to this service.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Miss Es complaint in the sense that Satsuma has agreed to put 
things right in line with the adjudicators  recommendation. 
In full and final settlement,  Provident  Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) should (if 
it hasnt already done so):
amend Miss Es credit  file so that it shows the default as being applied on 2 
September 2015 and that Miss E has been in a debt management plan from the 
same date;  and
pay Miss E £150
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0200108