K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that The Car Finance Company  (2007) Ltd (TCFC) provided him with a 
hire purchase agreement in January 2015  that was unaffordable.
background
In January 2015, Mr P acquired  a used car from a car dealership  through  a hire purchase  
agreement provided  by TCFC. The cash price of the car was £5,533  and the total repayable  
under the agreement was £9,693. Mr P was required  to pay 36 monthly repayments of 
£269.25.
Mr P says that the agreement was unaffordable when he got it. He says he had a serious 
gambling problem  and was told by the dealership that this wasnt  an issue. He also says that 
the car had lots of faults. He spent money trying to put it right.  He says he struggled  to make 
the monthly payments. He says because he was falling into arrears, TCFC disabled the car 
preventing him from driving it. 
Mr P says that after a period of time struggling  to maintain the agreement,  he started to get 
into arrears on his rent and utility bills and he stopped making  payments  towards  the 
agreement.  
In early 2016, TCFC took back the car, sold it and reduced the amount owing on the account  
by £2,950, leaving Mr P owing  £5,231.  As I understand it, Mr P hasnt made any further 
payment on the account. TCFC has since sold this debt to another firm, who have continued 
to pursue Mr P for repayment.  
Mr P complained to TCFC and it responded by saying  it had undertaken all relevant due 
diligence checks,  such as a credit check,  looking at a copy of his bank  statements and 
completed an income and expenditure form, before the hire purchase  agreement was 
finalised. It said this showed Mr P could afford  the agreement, so it wasnt able to uphold  his 
complaint. 
Unhappy with its response, Mr P asked this service  to continue to look at his complaint. 
Mr Ps complaint about the quality of the car was dealt with under a different complaint so 
I wont be addressing  that again  here.  This complaint concerns only the affordability of the 
agreement. 
I sent Mr P and TCFC my provisional decision on 8 February 2021. My provisional findings 
are attached and form part of this final decision. 
TCFC had nothing further to add. Mr P agreed in part with my recommendations. Ive 
summarised the points  he disagreed with:
The income TCFC has used wasnt solely his. Some of the income was his wifes 
and hed made this clear to TCFC. It used a joint income and outgoings  on the 
application form and he feels as if hes been made  out to have lied during the 
application process. Some of the income on his statements was clearly for his wife as 
it had her name on it so it shouldnt  have been  included as part of his income. 
The application process wasnt thorough at all and was all approved within  an hour.  
The credit  check didnt  go far enough as he had many defaults and county court  
judgments for thousands of pounds of debt.  This should have been picked up. 
Ref: DRN03162762At the time of taking  out the finance there  was 12 people living at his home that he 
was supporting. They were spending  around £250 per week  on food. 
He had a gambling problem  which was evident from the bank statements and 
highlighted this to the dealership and during conversations  with TCFC after taking out 
the agreement. 
He never  withheld  payments  for any other reason than he couldnt afford them. The 
notes TCFC have provided  have likely been amended to make their actions  look 
better than they were.  
It was wrong of them to sell the debt to a third party while  the case was being 
investigated. 
The £160 per month  fair usage  figure isnt reasonable. The car was disabled  by 
TCFC for over eight months  during  the time he had it in his possession. It isnt fair he 
pays for usage of a car he couldnt  drive. He is no position to pay £620 and it would 
put him in a worse financial position.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision,  and for broadly the same  reasons. Ill 
however address the additional  points Mr P has made. 
The income and expenditure details TCFC used do appear to have been taking into account 
the whole  household, not just Mr Ps circumstances. Im sorry that Mr P feels  as if it has 
been made out that he lied on the application,  I havent said this, nor do I think he did. 
However, I dont think it was unreasonable for TCFC  to use all of the income it could  see on 
Mr Ps statements. I say this because it was clear  all of the household income and 
expenditure was managed by him through these accounts. It think this therefore gave a good  
indication to TCFC of what  was affordable. 
But even taking all of that additional  income into account, I still dont think  TCFC made a 
reasonable lending decision.  It ought to have  seen that Mr P couldnt sustainably afford to 
make the finance  repayments. 
Mr P doesnt  agree  that TCFC carried out reasonable checks.  Ive explained why I think  it 
gathered enough information  about his circumstances. But despite gathering enough  
information, I dont  think it made  a fair lending decision  based  on what it had found out. The 
additional concerns Mr P has raised about what TCFC did and didnt take into account about 
his circumstances  dont  change the outcome Ive reached as Ive already concluded TCFC  
should have realised the lending was unaffordable.  
In deciding what fair redress should  be, Ive had in mind the usage Mr P had of the car while  
it was in his possession. He says the car was disabled for around eight months, out of the 
fifteen months he had it. I havent seen anything that supports that to have been  the case, 
but I have no reason  to doubt what Mr P says. 
However, even if I accept the car was disabled  for that period of time, I have seen  that Mr P 
had travelled over 14,000 miles in the car during  the time he had it. I think that is significant 
usage, especially  if he says he could only drive it for a total of seven months. His usage of 
the car will have affected the price that TCFC  would  have been able to achieve for it at 
auction when  it sold the car. Taking  all the circumstances into account, Im satisfied £160 per 
month for the time the car was in his possession is a fair amount for Mr P to pay for his 
Ref: DRN03162763usage of the car. This takes into account the overall  usage he had of it during that time. 
I understand Mr P says he will struggle to repay the outstanding  balance,  but Im required to 
be fair to both parties and its fair he pays for the reasonable  usage he had of the car. 
Lastly, hes said TCFC shouldnt have  sold the account to the third party  while it was 
investigating and the complaint was ongoing.  However, I understand TCFC sold all the 
accounts it held at that time, not just Mr Ps. So, Im satisfied  the ongoing complaint and 
investigation had no impact on its decision to sell the account  to the third party. Im not 
persuaded the sale of the account was unfair in any way in the circumstances of this case  or 
that it caused any additional  loss to Mr P. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct The Car Finance  Company  (2007) Ltd to:
Reduce Mr Ps outstanding liability  with the current  owner of the debt to £620.  
Remove any adverse  information it has recorded  on his credit  file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2021.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03162764my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think
there are two overarching  questions I need  to consider in order to decide whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These questions  are:
1.Did TCFC complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr P 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr P wouldve been  able to do  
so?
2.Did TCFC act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that TCFC didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr P and that he 
has lost out as a result,  I will go on to consider what is fair a way to put things right.
Did TCFC complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr P would be 
able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit,  TCFC were  required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Ps ability to sustainably repay  the debt. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Mr P could sustainably  afford the borrowing (considering  his specific 
circumstances), rather than how statistically likely  he was to repay.  The latter  is the risk 
posed to TCFC as the lender, or its credit risk but this is not necessarily  the same  as an 
assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited  to:
The amount  of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances. 
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
The total repayable on the credit agreement was nearly £10,000 over 36 months.  This was 
not an insignificant  financial  commitment over a three year period. So, I think  any reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of affordability  ought to have been relatively thorough. 
TCFC says that it completed a credit  check,  reviewed copies of Mr Ps bank statements from 
his two current accounts and asked him to complete an income and expenditure form. It said 
based on this it concluded that the hire purchase monthly repayments were affordable to 
Mr P.
Ref: DRN03162765It seems  the bank statements Mr P provided corroborated the income he had declared  on 
his income and expenditure assessment. Given Mr P had declared he wasnt  employed,  
I think it was important for TCFC to have some  certainty about Mr Ps income. The credit 
check would  have provided TCFC with information about Mr Ps existing credit commitments 
and I can see the income  and expenditure form asked about other non-discretionary 
expenditure. TCFC would also have been able to verify some of this information using the 
bank statements Mr P provided. 
Overall, I think TCFC obtained a reasonable and proportionate amount of information and 
evidence about  Mr Ps circumstances before agreeing to lend. Ive therefore gone onto 
consider whether I think TCFC made a fair lending decision based on what  it knew about 
Mr Ps circumstances. 
Did TCFC make a fair lending decision?
Its clear that TCFC  did conduct a number  of checks before lending to Mr P. And it appears 
the amount of information and evidence it gathered  was relatively  thorough. Although it 
undertook what on the face of it appears  to be a comprehensive set of checks, I dont think 
that TCFC provided proper or reasonable scrutiny to what those checks  revealed. Ill explain  
why.
First, the credit check it carried  out revealed  a number of concerning entries about Mr Ps 
financial stability. There were three defaulted credit  commitments,  two of which still had 
outstanding balances on them. Most  concerning of all, there was a County  Court  Judgement  
(CCJ) issued  against Mr P for non-payment of a debt just one month prior to entering into 
the agreement  with TCFC. I think this indicated Mr P was likely to be in financial difficulty 
and not in a position  to be able to sustainably  repay  further credit.  
TCFC says it works in the sub-prime market, meaning its customers generally will have 
adverse credit recorded on their credit file. While  TCFC might choose  to lend to consumers 
whose credit history shows adverse information,  this doesnt change its obligations on 
ensuring the lending is affordable and sustainable.  If it knows  a consumer  has shown signs  
of financial difficulty,  it ought to apply  more rigour and scrutiny  to its lending  decision than it 
might with a consumer who hasnt had adverse credit information recorded, to ensure it can 
be repaid in an affordable and sustainable way. 
The income and expenditure information  Mr P filled in at the point of application suggests  he 
had around £1,300 in disposable income  each month. TCFC has therefore  said the lending 
was clearly affordable.  However, TCFC also had sight of Mr Ps bank statements to 
corroborate that information as well as getting  a more detailed  insight  into his financial 
circumstances through  his credit file.
As Mr P had a CCJ recorded against him the month  before  entering  into this agreement,  it 
ought to have led TCFC  to question how reliable the disposable  income figure was. If Mr P 
had so much  disposable  income each month,  it wouldnt  make sense that hed have  a CCJ 
for non-payment of debt,  unless there  was something else about his circumstances  which 
meant he would  struggle  to repay  his debts. 
TCFC says it carried out a manual underwriting process. In doing so it reviewed Mr Ps bank 
statements for two of his current accounts. From this it was evident that the income Mr P had 
declared was broadly  accurate, so I think TCFC  acted reasonably in using the figure  Mr P 
had given. 
Ref: DRN03162766Mr P says some of the income  wasnt his but his partners. However, I dont think  this would 
have been clear to someone reviewing the statements.  And in any event, I dont think  this 
makes any material difference to the outcome Ive reached, as even taking into account  all of 
the income on his statements,  I still dont think TCFC  made a fair lending decision. 
I think it was clear from the bank statements that Mr P made a lot of transactions  in cash, so 
it was difficult to cross check all of the expenditure he had declared on the application. 
However, it seems his estimates for food and utility bills dont  seem  to have been 
unreasonable based on his household  make  up. 
Most of his credit commitments were taken into account, although  there were some  
additional loans,  some of which were  short  term ones that Mr P hadnt declared.  It seems his 
mobile phone bill was also significantly higher  than hed stated, and he had a number of 
subscription based services he was paying for regularly  such as TV. Although most of the 
income and expenditure Mr P declared  was accurate, his outgoings were  quite  a bit higher 
than had been declared and this ought to have been  clear  from reviewing  the bank 
statements. 
But assessing affordability and whether a consumer can sustainably repay a credit  
commitment isnt just a pounds and pence financial calculation. It is about  looking at the 
overall picture  including what  the business knows  about the consumers financial standing. 
The bank statements showed that Mr P regularly  had direct debits returned  unpaid due to 
lack of funds in his account. On top of this, he spent substantial amounts of money  with a 
gambling website.  In response  to our investigator, TCFC  told us it had calculated  this to be 
over £2,400 in the space of around  13 weeks. 
TCFC said it wouldnt have expected its staff to have picked up on any vulnerability that Mr P 
may have  had. And it said that in any event  in the same 13 week  period he had around 
£1,450 in winnings. It said based on this his disposable income was still sufficient to cover  
the cost of the hire purchase agreement. 
I dont think its reasonable for TCFC to say it wouldnt have realised the volume of gambling  
on Mr Ps bank statements.  The frequency of the transactions and the overall amount he 
was gambling was significant  in comparison to any other spending on the statements that 
TCFC reviewed. The gambling transactions were clearly having a significant  impact on 
Mr Ps ability  to sustainably manage  his financial  commitments and I think this ought to have 
been immediately  obvious to anyone  reviewing the statements. 
Its also clear  Mr P was sustaining heavy losses over a relatively  short period of time. While  
I accept he did also have  some winnings, this wasnt guaranteed income. TCFC  were  also 
aware Mr P had been unable to sustainably repay other credit  commitments and had in the 
previous month been issued with a CCJ. Coupled with the returned direct  debits on his 
current account, this ought to have reasonably indicated  to TCFC that Mr P was unlikely  to 
be able to sustainably  repay the borrowing. 
For these reasons, I dont  think  TCFC made a fair lending  decision when granting the hire 
purchase agreement  to Mr P. 
Did TCFC act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other way?
Ref: DRN03162767Mr P says he told TCFC  about his gambling  and his financial problems when he fell into 
arrears on the agreement.  As well as disclosing it to the dealership when he applied  for the 
finance. He says TCFC  unfairly  disabled the car when  payments werent  made. He said this 
caused him to fall further behind on other priority bills because he needed to make payments 
to TCFC. 
Its not clear whether  the dealership was aware  of Mr Ps gambling. But as Ive said above it 
ought to have been clear to TCFC when it reviewed his bank statements. Ive reviewed  the 
contact notes from TCFC.  From  everything  Ive seen  it appears that when  Mr P was in 
arrears, he told TCFC this was because he was withholding payments in dispute  because 
TCFC wouldnt  repair the car, rather than because he was in financial difficulty. Given Mr P 
didnt tell TCFC that he was financially struggling at this time, I dont think it acted unfairly in 
disabling the car until payments were made. 
It seems  he did eventually  tell TCFC  that it was actually due to his gambling  and financial  
difficulty, but this was after the car had already been taken back and TCFC had stopped  
adding interest and charges to the outstanding  balance. It doesnt appear Mr P has made  
any further payments  to TCFC since that date, so I dont think  TCFC have needed  to do 
anything differently when dealing with his financial difficulty. 
I understand the debt has since been sold on to a third party to collect, and I cant  hold 
TCFC responsible for the actions the third party may have taken.  
Putting things right
As I dont think TCFC  should have lent to Mr P, I think  it now needs to put him back  in the 
position he would have been in  or as close as possible  had the lending not been 
granted. It should  therefore refund everything he has paid under the agreement, minus a 
deduction for the fair usage he had of the car. 
There isnt an exact formula  for working  out what fair usage should  be. However, in deciding  
whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the amount of interest that was charged under 
the agreement, the usage  Mr P likely  had of the car and what his costs  to stay mobile might 
have been had he not entered  into this agreement.  In doing so, I think a fair amount he 
should pay is £160 for every month  he had use of the car. It seems  Mr P had the car for 
around 15 months before it was repossessed by TCFC  and sold at auction. Therefore,  I think  
it would  be fair and reasonable for TCFC  to retain  £2,400. 
I understand Mr P has paid less than this to TCFC,  around £1,780, meaning he will still owe 
£620. The debt has been sold to a third party and the outstanding balance  they are pursuing 
Mr P for is significantly more than this. TCFC  should  arrange to pay any outstanding balance  
on Mr Ps behalf, except for £620. Mr P can then arrange a suitable repayment plan with the 
third party for the remaining amount. Alternatively, TCFC can buy the debt back  from the 
third party and reduce  the balance accordingly. 
Lastly, as TCFC shouldnt  have granted the lending it isnt fair for it to record  adverse 
information in relation  to the hire purchase  agreement on his credit file.
Ref: DRN03162768my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im planning  to uphold this complaint and direct 
The Car Finance  Company (2007) Ltd to:
Reduce Mr Ps outstanding liability  with the current  owner of the debt to £620.  
Remove any adverse  information it has recorded  on his credit  file. 
Ref: DRN0316276