K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that Pinnacle  Insurance Plc has unfairly turned down her claim under her 
pet insurance policy.
My references to Pinnacle include its agent. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I intended to uphold this complaint and I include an extract  from my 
decision here:
In 2015 Mrs F took out a pet insurance  policy with Pinnacle to cover  her young dog. She 
had to make  a claim during this first year and her vet sent Pinnacle her pets clinical history  
to the date of the claim. 
In 2016 Pinnacle  sent Mrs F details of the policy renewal, and the premium  had increased.  
Mrs F found she could take out the same  lifetime policy  with Pinnacle as a new customer, for 
a lower monthly premium.  She spoke to Pinnacle about this and it gave her some 
information about the implications of doing so. Mrs F answered some questions  online when  
taking out a new policy. 
Mrs F renewed the policy shed taken  in 2016  both in 2017 and 2018. This dispute concerns  
the 2018 policy year. Her dog had a problem with his nares (nostrils) that was affecting his 
breathing, and he needed corrective surgery. Mrs F asked Pinnacle to pre-authorise  the 
surgery. But having reviewed her vets clinical history Pinnacle wouldnt authorise any 
payment. It said should have told it about  a number of health conditions  shed discussed with 
her vet before taking  the 2016  policy, including about the dogs  palate  and respiratory  
issues. If shed done so then Pinnacle would have placed a list of stated exclusions on the 
policy, one of which meant her claim for the surgery wasnt covered. 
Mrs F strongly disagreed,  saying Pinnacles decision was both unfair and out of line with 
consumer law. She came to us. Our investigator  upheld the complaint. He said Pinnacle 
should pay the claim, with 8% simple interest.  Pinnacle disagreed.  Since our investigators  
opinion Mrs F and Pinnacle have exchanged further correspondence. But as an agreement  
hasnt been reached the complaint has come to me for review. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im likely to uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Its likely  Mrs Fs pre-authorisation  request  would  have  been approved  by Pinnacle had she 
not cancelled  the original  policy shed  taken out in 2015. This is because shed originally 
taken a lifetime policy, which means  that a claim for a particular illness  will be covered up to 
the policy limit each year, provided the consumer renews the policy  each year without  a 
break in cover. 
But in this case Mrs F didnt renew her original lifetime policy in 2016.  Instead she took out a 
new policy with a lower  premium rather than renew  the original policy.  So Ive considered  
Ref: DRN05028932whether its fair for Pinnacle  to decide  not to cover  the later surgery costs  that she asked it to 
pre-authorise, and in turn to put exclusions on the policy  backdated to the 2016 policys start 
date. 
the original policy
Mrs F took out the original policy in 2015  when her dog was very young,  so there werent  
any exclusions for specific health  conditions. In 2016, just a few days  before the policy 
renewed, Mrs F called  Pinnacle about the renewal  quotation, as the premiums had gone up 
by around £10 a month. Ive listened to the call, and this was the discussion:
Mrs F asked about a new quote shed received online for the same Pinnacle policy,  
which was cheaper  than the renewal quote. 
Pinnacle explained  that the existing policy premium reflected  the fact that her pet 
might have had a condition before the start date,  which  shed be able to claim for. 
Mrs F said shed claimed for the dogs teeth, but as that was a teething issue  it 
wouldnt happen again. 
Pinnacle explained  that anything shed claimed for or anything  youve  been  to the 
vets for from before that policy start date can be excluded on the new policy. 
Mrs F said again that her dog wasnt going to have the teething problems again.
Pinnacle said it was up to her, and she could take the new policy out online,  but it just 
wanted to make  her aware of the possible exclusions. 
Mrs F then asked Pinnacle  to cancel the original policy.
the relevant law
In reaching a decision that I consider  is fair and reasonable Im required to take into account,  
amongst other things,  relevant  law and regulations. The relevant law here is The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations Act) 2012 or CIDRA. 
In brief summary, under  CIDRA a consumer is required to take reasonable care in answering 
an insurers clear questions. If the consumers answers are careless,  and the insurer can 
show it would otherwise have entered into the policy on different terms then the insurer is 
able to apply those different terms to a claim. 
the questions  Pinnacle asked Mrs F.
In February 2016,  when  taking out the new policy online, Pinnacle asked Mrs F these 
questions:
Has your dog seen a vet for a reason other than for annual health check, routine 
vaccination or other preventative care? 
Are you aware of any condition that your dog may already have or may have had in 
the past?
The question mark pop-up next to both the above questions  said:
It is important you advise us of any condition your pet may already have suffered/be 
suffering from or any change in their normal state of health even if medical  treatment was 
not/is not being sought. Our team of underwriters will then review your case and if necessary 
contact your vet to obtain further information. In doing so we can then advise you from the 
outset if there are any conditions for which your pet will not be covered.
Ref: DRN05028933Mrs F didnt  give Pinnacle any information about her dogs health,  in response to the above  
questions. So Pinnacle says the application  wasnt reviewed by the underwriting  team. Mrs F 
was given a new lifetime policy without any additional health condition  exclusions. 
the information Pinnacle says Mrs F should  have  told it about
Pinnacle has referred specifically to these entries  in the vets clinical notes:
23 February 2015: A slightly  long lower  jaw.
10 April 2015:  Mildly overlong  jaw, lower jaw is 1/2cm longer than upper. Ran 
through common breed  problems respiratory  issues, monitor tail as although skin fold 
isnt too deep  may cause problems in the future. Advised  will monitor  jaw and if find 
teeth dig into gums or other  problems seen may need dental  surgery  etc.
24 April 2015   A lame right hind leg and a scratch that was clipped and cleaned.
16 July 2015   Swallowing a hair grip.
11 September 2015: Snores a lot and soft palate  is quite  long 5mm.
15 September 2015: Owner brought in BOAS (Brachycephalic Obstructive  Airway  
Syndrome) study  form.  Advised of dates of BOAS study and quickly ran through 
proceedings for this. 
11 October 2015  Lethargy, poor appetite,  bleeding gums.
12 October 2015  Investigation into bleeding gums.
14 December 2015   Erythematous  (irritated)  facial skin folds.
Pinnacle has accepted two visits  to the vet on 23 February 2015 and 10 April 2015 were 
routine puppy  visits. But it says the vet mentioned on 10 April that the jaw should be 
monitored for any issues, so Mrs F should  have been aware  of this.
Pinnacle said none of the other  appointments above were routine visits, and Mrs F had 
claimed under the policy for bleeding gums. At the very least  she should have told it about  
the dental problems. If Mrs F had done  so, then it would  have  underwritten  the policy.  It 
would then have  identified that the dog had an overlong soft palate,  and had been  known to 
snore. It would then have  placed the exclusions correctly. 
Also, Pinnacle says it would have put exclusions on her policy  from the outset for any claims 
for the following conditions, and any other subsequently related condition: soft palate  
problem; respiratory problems; tail conditions; teeth  and gums; and third party  (from the 
2019 renewal  date).  So aside  from the third party exclusion it put these exclusions on the 
policy backdated to the policys start date. It turned down the pre-authorisation request for 
the dogs breathing conditions under the exclusions for soft palate problems and respiratory 
problems.
Mrs Fs reasons for not giving Pinnacle  the above  information
Mrs F says that Pinnacle was already aware of her dogs  clinical history, having been sent a 
full copy of the dogs clinical history (in November 2015) before shed taken out the new 
policy in 2016.  She says its not fair for Pinnacle  only later to say it was unaware  of this 
information because  it was given to it under a different policy.  
In any event, she says she took reasonable care because  she reasonably believed that 
shed already told Pinnacle  about any information necessary. She didnt  believe her dog had 
a condition or symptom  as defined in the policy.  Her dogs physiological  characteristics as 
mentioned in the vets clinical notes  lower  jaw, soft palate and snoring - are typical  of his 
Ref: DRN05028934breed. The vet hadnt given her any adverse information (as Pinnacle seemed to accept) or 
any advice about  required treatment  or shed have had her dog treated. 
Pinnacle was itself aware of the breeds characteristics, having published information about 
it on its own website. 
has Pinnacle shown  that Mrs F made a careless  misrepresentation?
CIDRA says whether  or not a consumer has taken  reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation must be decided in the light of all the relevant circumstances. Examples of 
things which  may be taken into account are the type of insurance contract in question, and 
its target market and how clear and how specific the insurers questions were.  If the insurer  
was, or ought to have been,  aware of any particular characteristics or circumstances of the 
actual consumer, those  are to be taken  into account.  
In this case, Pinnacle was aware of Mrs Fs dogs clinical history to November 2015. I think it 
was aware of particular  characteristics  and circumstances of Mrs F, its actual consumer. So 
Ive taken that into account when considering  whether  Mrs F took reasonable care. 
Pinnacle has said that once the previous policy had been cancelled  then there  would be no 
need for it to refer back to that policy as there  was no longer an insurable interest. But 
I dont agree. Mrs Fs original policy  was cancelled at the same time as she applied for the 
new policy online. Pinnacle held the vets clinical notes, and shed told it she intended to 
renew the policy online at a lower  premium. Shed made a claim for the dental  problem. So 
in taking into account Pinnacles  knowledge of Mrs Fs actual circumstances I dont think  it 
has a remedy under CIDRA.  This means  its not fair for Pinnacle retrospectively to add the 
exclusions in the light of that knowledge.  So it must  remove those exclusions from the policy 
Mrs F took out in 2016 from its February 2016  start date.  It cant  rely on those exclusions to 
reject Mrs Fs claim.
Pinnacle has clearly said on a number of occasions that is not relying on any pre-existing 
policy exclusion to reject Mrs Fs claim.  That being  so I intend to find that it must now pay 
Mrs Fs claim,  subject to the policy limit and excess,  with 8% simple  interest  as set out in 
more detail below.  
Mrs F has asked for compensation for distress and inconvenience, for herself and her 
husband. Ive thought  about this. I cant award  compensation  to her husband who isnt a 
policy holder and so isnt a person eligible  to complaint to us under the rules I must follow. 
I dont think its fair to make Pinnacle  pay Mrs F compensation. It warned her of the risks of 
taking out a new policy and it was entitled  to argue its case, even though  Ive ultimately  
disagreed with its approach.
Mrs F is concerned that Pinnacle sent us some correspondence that she had marked 
without prejudice. She later agreed Pinnacle could send it to us. Our service is designed to 
be informal and its usual  for businesses and consumers to send  us information exchanged 
directly when we are investigating  a complaint. In any event, the information exchanged 
between the parties  isnt material to my decision, which is based on the relevant law and 
what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN05028935responses
Pinnacle didnt  accept my provisional decision.  It made detailed response, and in summary it 
said:
the original policy
During the call that Ive quoted Mrs F didnt  tell it that the new policy shed  found  online was 
with Pinnacle. As Id summarised Pinnacle explained the consequences of cancelling  the 
policy and continuing  with the new one but she chose to continue. In doing so, she cancelled  
the contract. Anything arising after the termination  date isnt covered by the contract. So 
while its likely the pre-authorisation  request would have been  approved  under the first policy  
the fact is that that policy didnt remain in force. 
Ive said I dont agree with Pinnacles  view that there was no insurable interest after the 
policy cancellation. But once  the contract was cancelled Mrs Fs dog was no longer on risk 
so Pinnacle wouldnt  refer back to it. 
For clarity it re-stated some earlier points it had made that Mrs F didnt  tell it she intended to 
renew the policy online. She told it shed found  a new policy so wanted  to cancel the current 
policy. Given shed called  to cancel the policy it doesnt think theres any argument  that she 
thought she was renewing or continuing  the original policy online for a cheaper  premium. 
The contract was cancelled as at 22 February 2016, and the new contract beginning on 
22 February 2016 was not a renewal or continuation of the original contract. 
the new policy
Even though  it had some clinical history for the dog the new policy was a new application for 
a new contract of insurance. It is in no way linked or related to the previous contract  of 
insurance. 
Mrs F clearly cancelled  the old policy and made a new application via the internet. She 
received a letter showing shed cancelled the old policy and a welcome letter for the new 
policy. 
On 14 December she took the dog to the vet with sore skin folds. It categorically didnt have 
this information  either  in the old policy or the new policy  until receipt of the pre-authorisation 
request for the dogs surgery.
It doesnt agree Mrs F didnt have to tell it about  anything else,  but Mrs F made  a 
misrepresentation when she applied for the policy  by not making it aware of this consultation  
 as an absolute  minimum.  So it does have a remedy under CIDRA for this careless  
misrepresentation. 
Under CIDRA one of the things that must be taken into account when considering  a 
misrepresentation is the questions which were asked, and how clear  and specific those 
questions were. It doesnt think its questions were  unclear or misleading,  so it doesnt think  
the section Id quoted  (Section 3, subsection 4) of the Act cancels out any obligation that 
Mrs F had. 
Mrs F says one of the reasons she didnt tell it about conditions or symptoms  was that she 
didnt think her dog had a condition or symptom. So it doesnt  consider shed have told it 
Ref: DRN05028936about anything, regardless or what history she had or didnt  have. This is supported  by her 
statement and the fact that the December 2015  consultation wasnt  disclosed. Its not for 
Mrs F to make an assumption about what it was looking for. 
the exclusions
Mrs F complained to Pinnacle  only about  the declined  pre-authorisation claim and the 
exclusions placed for respiratory problems and soft palate problems, which  caused the claim 
to be declined. No complaint has been  raised about  the other exclusions. As such, it doesnt 
consent to the placement of the other  exclusions being considered.  Mrs F can contact it to 
complain and it will investigate those issues separately. But it adds that Mrs F has cancelled 
the policy recently due to the price, so the policy is no longer  on risk.
Mrs F didnt  respond to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought  about Pinnacles comments about the complaint, but I still intend to 
uphold it, based  on what I think is fair and reasonable  in the specific  circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Ive listened again to the call when Mrs F cancelled the old policy.  As Pinnacle says she 
didnt specifically say that the policy shed had a quote for online was with Pinnacle. I think  
the implication was that the quote  was with Pinnacle, because she was asking why the quote 
online was so much  lower than the renewal price. But either way it doesnt change  the 
outcome. I appreciate  Mr F cancelled the old policy and took out a new one with Pinnacle 
online, and so there was a new contract of insurance. But the fact remains  that Pinnacle did 
have her dogs recent clinical  history, and under CIDRA this is information  it held about its 
actual consumer  even if Pinnacle  didnt  connect  the old policy  with the new one when she 
took it out online. I remain of the view that taking into account all the information Pinnacle 
held about Mrs Fs circumstances that it isnt fair for it to apply the exclusions retrospectively. 
I accept the questions Pinnacle asked Mrs F were clear and specific. I also take its point that 
the December  2015 visit to the vet about  its skin folds was after Pinnacle  had received the 
dogs clinical  history  so its argument  is that there  was a careless  misrepresentation on this 
point at the very least. It says if Mrs F had answered yes even for the December 2015 visit 
to the vet then it would have asked for the underwriting  notes. But even if Mrs F had told it 
about the December 2015 visit I still dont think Pinnacle could fairly add exclusions for 
information it already  held about  Mrs F and her actual circumstances. That includes  
information about the dogs tail from April 2015 (relevant to the tail conditions  exclusion). In 
my view, Mrs F genuinely  thought her dog didnt have any medical  conditions,  except the 
dental issues that she thought were puppy-related teething.
I dont agree with Pinnacle that Mrs F didnt complain to it about all exclusions it added  to her 
policy. She specifically  complained to Pinnacle  about the exclusions,  and I refer specifically 
to her email to Pinnacle of 29 May 2018. She also included  her complaint about all the 
exclusions when she complained to this service.  So I dont accept  that Mrs F is now required 
to complain separately to Pinnacle about  the policy exclusions.
Ref: DRN05028937Pinnacle says that removal of the exclusions unrelated to the pre-authorisation claim has 
effectively fallen away in any event, because Mrs F has now cancelled the policy.  I take its 
point but for certainty and given the exclusions were all back-dated  I still require it to remove 
them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and in this final decision I uphold this 
complaint. I require Pinnacle Insurance Plc to pay Mrs Fs claim for BOAS,  subject to the 
policy limit and excess, together with simple  interest* at the rate of 8% per year from the 
date she paid the vets bills to the date it settles  the claim. I also intend to require Pinnacle to 
remove the retrospective policy exclusions it applied from the policys  February  2016  start 
date for any claims for the following conditions, and any other subsequently related 
condition: soft palate problem; respiratory  problems; tail conditions; teeth and gums; and 
third party. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Pinnacle considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mrs F how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs F a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0502893