K822xcomplaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the investigation  and settlement of her subsidence claim under her 
home insurance policy. The policy is provided by esure Insurance  Limited.
I will refer to all experts  and representatives as esure throughout this decision.
background 
Mrs G noticed damage in her home and made a claim. esure  appointed  experts  to inspect  
and validate the claim.  Discussions, monitoring and investigations took place and eventually  
esure decided  to cash settle  the claim and sent Mrs G a cheque for approximately £15,000. 
Mrs G was surprised by this as final monitoring readings hadnt been taken and several 
items hadnt been agreed in terms of settlement. Also, Mrs G was clear  that she wanted 
esure to do the works and the settlement amount  fell a long way short of the amounts shed 
been quoted to get the property repaired. Mrs G brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He accepted Mrs Gs point that without the final 
monitoring results how did esure know the property had stopped moving and that it was safe 
for repairs to be completed without  such evidence. He said esure  should replace  the patio 
doors like for like. Our investigator said esure needed to properly assess the damage  to the 
shower room and tiling. It needed  to deal with the damage to the garage walls and the 
cracks at the rear of the property needed  to be included on the schedule of works. Due to all 
the work  needed  he also said esure might need  to arrange alternative accommodation for 
the period of the works  being  done  for the family  or make other suitable arrangements with 
them. esure didnt  respond to the view so the complaint was passed on for a decision from 
an ombudsman.
my provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision,  I said:
Mrs G has been clear  about the issues as she sees them throughout her complaint.  She 
referred to cracks that hadnt been  investigated,  the issues  with the tiles and the shower  
room, the quotes  for the patio doors,  what she was told by the loss adjuster, and about the 
room decoration that hadnt been dealt with. All I can see in response to Mrs G asking valid 
questions about  these points was her claim appearing to be shut down. Experts  on behalf of 
esure decided  the only option  was to cash settle  for a sum that didnt include all of the points 
Mrs G had raised. I think its very clear  that is unfair and unreasonable.  The amount offered 
didnt include all the items and represented  only just over a third of the cost quoted privately  
to Mrs G. Even then independent contractors werent able to offer any guarantees for the 
work at the higher costs  either.
The point made by esure to Mrs G about  the policy terms  allowing it to cash settle  could be 
used if it was shown  that there had been  a breakdown in the relationship.  Or if Mrs G had 
created problems making it difficult for the experts to effectively handle the claim. But I just 
cannot see thats the case here and in fairness  to esure  it hasnt suggested it. But it does 
appear that without  good reason esure  decided to go with the cash settlement and without 
any agreement just sent Mrs G a cheque. I think thats poor customer  service. Mrs G 
documented throughout her claim  that shed had conversations with certain  experts, and she 
was rightly expecting  the outcome of these  conversation to lead to action taking place to 
Ref: DRN01733672move her claim  forward.  Instead she got a cheque through the post for a figure way short of 
the required settlement  amount.
monitoring readings
Its clear that the final monitoring  readings  werent  taken and so nobody  can be certain if the 
property has definitely settled and stopped moving. Esure  claimed that it didnt complete the 
reading as Mrs G declined it. But I dont accept that. Throughout her correspondence with 
this service Mrs G has been consistent  that shes worried this matter  wasnt concluded. 
Apparently, Mrs G wasnt available on the date esure wished to check the readings. But I 
think if esure had tried to arrange another date Mrs G wouldve been keen to get the 
readings completed. Even if that wasnt the case its a concern that esure felt it could just 
continue and conclude  the claim anyway. A long standing approach  of this service is that we 
expect insurers to complete an effective  and lasting repair  esure and the experts working 
for esure know this.
Mrs G has also said throughout that the trees hadnt  been  killed  off and were  starting  to grow 
again. Mrs G was provided with no reassurance, in fact the only further attempt I can see 
was a visit to get Mrs G to agree to what  esure had already  offered.  From this point onward it 
would be quite hard for esure to convince  me that the claim was handled  effectively, and the 
service received by Mrs G was of a fair and reasonable standard.  To rectify this esure  
should take final readings to ensure and prove  the movement has stopped and resolve the 
issues with the trees.
This was followed up by setting aside numerous  conversations that Mrs G said she had with 
experts that didnt seem  to matter. Instead,  the next thing Mrs G knew was that shed been 
sent a cheque and her claim  had been settled  in full as far as esure were concerned. Even 
though the schedule of works was disputed,  and areas of damage  hadnt been included.
patio doors
I think this issue sort of sums up the way this claim has been dealt with. Mrs G throughout 
her evidence told us shed been advised to get a quote for replacement, and she did exactly  
that. The schedule  of works said that the doors  needed to be replaced. But esure now say 
the doors just need to be adjusted. The evidence clearly says otherwise. I think it would be 
fair and reasonable for esure, in agreement  with Mrs G to replace the doors like for like or 
accept and pay the quote Mrs G got herself  and has been provided to esure.
cracks under bay window
The evidence here doesnt clearly show that subsidence is to blame.  But as esure needs to 
review several aspects of the claim it should  review  this damage and if it is subsidence 
include it as part of the schedule of works.
shower room
Mrs G has mentioned on several occasions the cracking tiles and the door not closing 
properly. This understandably suggests to her that the subsidence issue hasnt been 
resolved. Esure hasnt dealt with this and it needs  to be reconsidered as part of a review and 
dealt with on the schedule of works as appropriate.
garage walls
Ref: DRN01733673For the avoidance of doubt seeing  as it doesnt appear to have been cleared up the interior  
and exterior issues with cracks need to be reviewed and added  to the schedule of works as 
appropriate.
rear property cracking
This is another  area that doesnt  appear  to have been explained. It needs to be reviewed 
and added to the schedule of works  as appropriate.
room decoration
Again, this hasnt  been clearly resolved and just further highlights why Mrs G was so 
surprised and undoubtedly upset when she received a cheque that didnt appear to deal with 
several aspects of her claim. This should be reviewed and included  as appropriate within  the 
schedule of works.
alternative accommodation
I can understand Mrs Gs worries about  whether or not the property will be habitable when 
works take place. Shes pointed out how her family wont be able to access  some parts  of 
the home while work is going on. I think this is a reasonable point to make,  especially while 
the toilet area will be difficult to use, and the white goods are removed from the kitchen. So, 
an agreement will need to be made about disturbance  allowances  for the family while  the 
kitchen will not have  white goods in it and the toilet may be out of use. Or esure will need  to 
arrange short term alternative accommodation and ensure that the required works  are 
completed before Mrs G and her family  can move  back  in.
service and claim handling compensation
I think its clear  throughout the claim that the service and handling hasnt been up to 
standard. And the matter  isnt yet concluded. I think  esure should compensate Mrs G £250  
for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered through  the poor service and handling 
shes received.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs G responded to say she had no issues  with the provisional decision. But she also sent in 
further photos to show  that further  cracks were appearing in her home.
esure said it wanted the loss adjuster to revisit the property and wanted more time to 
respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the further photos, and all this does is further confirms how worried  Mrs G 
must be about the situation. In truth it sums up why Ive made the provisional decision along 
the lines I have.
Ref: DRN01733674Im not sure why esure think a visit was the right answer to my provisional decision.  The 
facts speak clearly here and esure  and its appointed experts have quite  a bit more  work to 
do here that wont be resolved by one visit.
Based on the responses theres  no reason to change  the details of my provisional  decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I intend to require esure Insurance  Limited  to:
complete monitoring  readings to ensure  and prove the movement has stopped  and 
resolve the issues with the trees;
either replace  the patio doors like for like or accept Mrs Gs quotation and settle on that 
basis;
review the cracks under the bay window and add to the schedule  of works as necessary;
review the tiles and door in the shower room and add to the schedule  or works as 
necessary;
review interior and exterior  cracks to the garage walls and add these to the schedule of 
works as necessary;
review the rear property cracking and add to the schedule of works as appropriate;
room decoration costs  should  be reviewed and included as appropriate  on the schedule 
of works;
agree  with Mrs G either  disturbance allowances for the family or short term alternative 
accommodation during completion of required works;
pay £250 compensation for Mrs Gs distress and inconvenience.
esure Insurance Limited  must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs G C accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0173367