K822xcomplaint
F Ltd, represented by Mrs T a director, complains about the way National Westminster  Bank  
Plc has dealt with them and that it gave incorrect information about cheque clearance  times 
which led to it losing  a customer. 
 
background 
Mrs T contacted NatWest to see how long it would take a customers cheque  to clear into F 
Ltd.s account. She was given incorrect information and as a result  F Ltd asked for a new 
order of goods  to be returned.  As a result  she says F Ltd lost the customer.  She says this is 
a big issue for a small business. She also says the banks representatives were  rude and 
unhelpful. 
NatWest apologised  in its final response  for its poor service. It said itd offered  £50 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience  caused. But Mrs T hadnt  accepted  this offer 
and declined  reimbursement  of call costs.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. She said:
The cheque in question  was credited to F Ltd.s account three times and debited  
twice. So, it has had the benefit  of the money.
NatWest has given  Mrs T incorrect information on a number of occasions. It mayve  
confused the situation  by giving mixed  information  about  the money  but its clear from 
the statements  that the money remained in the account. Mrs T also appeared aware 
 despite what  shed been told by NatWest  that the cheques  money had been  paid 
into the account. 
So, its not possible to fairly  say that NatWests advice was the primary reason for the 
breakdown of F Ltd.s relationship with its customer. 
Even so NatWests inability to explain  the situation clearly caused F Ltd some 
reputational damage. Given this and the level of service given, NatWest should  pay 
the company £250 compensation.
Mrs T remains unhappy. She points out that she has repeatedly  said she knew  in January 
2018 that the money was in the account. She banked the cheque on 21 December 2017;  it 
was represented  by the bank on 29 December 2017  and 4 January 2018. When  the 
customer placed an order on 11 January 2018 she rang NatWest  to check  if the cheque  had 
cleared and was told it had bounced.  On 17 January 2018  she was told it had in fact cleared. 
Her complaint is that NatWest gave incorrect information which led to F Ltd losing a 
customer. Recompense of £250 isnt enough. She also wants compensation for herself for 
the sheer frustration,  time, energy and effort shes been put to.   
NatWest has agreed to pay £250 compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN06727802Its clear NatWest  couldve done better. It gave Mrs T incorrect advice and it apologised in its 
final response for the service itd given.
Mrs T says this incorrect advice resulted in F Ltd losing the customer.
I accept that the confusion over whether this cheque had cleared or bounced affected a 
further order placed by the customer and led to a request  from F Ltd for the customer  to pay 
in cash. And Ive no doubt this wouldve had some  adverse effect  on F Ltd.s  relationship 
with the customer.  
Even so Mrs T knew the cheque had been  cashed  and the money was in F Ltd.s account 
from mid January 2018. And I think the customer wouldve also known  the correct  situation if 
itd checked with its bank. I also note that when Mrs T asked for cash to cover  the £132  
cheque the customer  didnt apparently have this available. And its not possible to say 
exactly what factors actually motivated the customer to stop trading with F Ltd. 
Mrs T has said F Ltd did around  a couple  of hundred  pounds  worth of business  a month with 
the customer and I presume shed like compensation for this loss. But even if I was 
persuaded that the customer was lost solely as a result of NatWests incorrect  advice,  I 
would have to take into account  that any compensation for the lost business wouldnt be 
calculated on the gross value of the customers orders. I could only reasonably consider any 
profit F Ltd made on this business which would no doubt be considerably  less. And F Ltd 
would also have to show itd mitigated any loss by for example by trying to keep the 
customer and getting additional business  elsewhere. So, any award for such  a loss would 
only be fairly modest. 
Overall although  I recognise  Mr Ts strength of feeling I dont think shes  shown on balance 
that NatWests incorrect advice about this cheque was the sole cause of the breakdown of 
the relationship  between  F Ltd and its customer. And on balance  I dont  think  I can fairly  or 
reasonably ask NatWest  to compensate  F Ltd for its lost business  with this customer.
Our adjudicator felt the issues surrounding the cheque wouldve caused  F Ltd some  
reputational damage. I agree. And I think F Ltd was also put to some  inconvenience sorting 
things out with NatWest  and the customer.  This warrants an award of some compensation.
But I cannot award compensation to a limited company for distress as its not a person and 
cannot suffer it.
Mrs T also wants compensation for herself  for her frustration, time, energy and effort.  All 
consumers, or their representatives, spend  some time and experience  some  additional 
inconvenience in dealing  with a complaint and putting things right. We wouldnt generally 
recommend theyre  compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can reasonably depart 
from this approach in this case. Furthermore it isnt appropriate for me to award Mrs T 
compensation for acting a company director as shes not NatWests customer  F Ltd is.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I agree with the 
adjudicator that an award of £250 compensation to F Ltd is fair in this case. And I dont think 
I can reasonably aske NatWest to pay anything more as Mrs T would like.
Although I recognise  Mrs Ts frustration and strength of feeling  I dont see any compelling 
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case.
Ref: DRN06727803my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay F Ltd 
£250 compensation.
NatWest must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it F Ltd 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If NatWest considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold any tax from 
that interest,  it should tell F Ltd how much its taken off. It should also give it a tax deduction  
certificate if it asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T, as a 
director and on behalf of F Ltd, to accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0672780