K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Capital One (Europe) plc declined transactions  he tried to make  using 
his credit card. 
background
Mr K has a credit card from Capital  One. In 2018,  he wanted to travel to an event overseas 
and saw a special offer on the cost of the flight.  He tried to pay for the flight  using  his credit 
card but the transaction was declined. Mr K then transferred funds from his bank account to 
the credit  card account, intending to put the account  into credit and then use the card to pay 
for the airline ticket. But his account was blocked so he still wasnt  able to buy the flight  using 
his credit card. 
A few days  later, another transaction on Mr Ks credit card was declined. And when he 
attempted to make  some  cash withdrawals using  the card, they were also declined. Mr K 
complained to Capital One.  
They said the initial transaction was declined because the cost of the flight was higher than 
Mr Ks credit  limit. As to the transfer of funds,  they said they dont accept payments to 
customers accounts for more than the outstanding balance,  but they couldnt stop the 
transfer as it came directly from Mr Ks bank. Because the amount transferred was higher 
than Mr Ks credit limit, they said they blocked his account so that they could  investigate  
security concerns.
Capital One said they declined the other  transaction  a few days  later because of concerns 
over the way the merchant had processed it. They contacted Mr K to check that the payment  
was genuine and said that, once  they had his confirmation, the transaction  went  ahead.
As for the attempted cash withdrawals, Capital One said these were declined  because Mr K 
was attempting  to withdraw more cash than his available credit  limit. 
They said that, in each scenario, they had followed their procedures  correctly. So they didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr K wasnt  happy with Capital Ones response  so he brought his complaint to this service. 
He thinks they should  reimburse  the cost of his airline ticket  as a minimum. But our 
adjudicator thought that Capital One had acted fairly so he didnt ask them  to do anything. 
Because Mr K wasnt happy with the adjudicators  view, his complaint has been passed  to 
an ombudsman to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When he opened the credit card account,  Mr K agreed to be bound  by Capital Ones  terms 
and conditions. They say that Capital One may restrict the use of his account in certain 
circumstances. These  include situations where  they dont think  Mr Ks account is secure or 
they believe theres been unauthorised or fraudulent use of his account. The terms also 
allow Capital One to decline a transaction in some  circumstances, including where they think  
its necessary to protect the security  of Mr Ks account or where he has gone over a credit  
Ref: DRN05655172limit. Going over the credit limit is one of the situations which is identified in the terms and 
conditions as being a breach of the agreement.
So I find that Capital  One were acting  within the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account  by 
declining the airline ticket  transaction.  This is because the cost of the flight was more  than 
Mr Ks credit  limit. Mr K says he has spent over the credit limit on other  occasions,  but that 
doesnt mean it was wrong for Capital One to decline this transaction.
The terms and conditions  also say that the account  is a credit card facility  and that Mr K 
should not put it into credit. If the account is in credit, Capital One may return  the money  to 
him. The transfer which Mr K made to the credit card account  was for a fairly  large  amount of 
money, significantly more  than the cost of the flight and substantially higher than his credit  
limit. I think  its unusual  for a customer to make a significant payment like this on to a credit 
card account  so as to put funds in place before making a purchase on the card. That isnt the 
way a credit  card is intended to work. And its contrary to the terms and conditions of Mr Ks 
account. So I think it was reasonable  here for Capital One to block  the account while they 
investigated the situation.
Mr K says he has made payments on other occasions which have put the account  into 
credit. But that doesnt mean  Capital  One were wrong  to block the account on the occasion 
in question, particularly as the overpayment was so significant. Theyve also explained  that 
they werent able to stop the payment  arriving  into Mr Ks account. I think thats a reasonable 
explanation, and I think Capital One have acted within  their terms and conditions.
Turning to the later transaction which was declined, I dont think Capital One acted 
unreasonably there  either. Its right that they have  security  measures  and procedures  in 
place to safeguard  customers  accounts  and prevent fraud  so far as possible. As to exactly 
what those procedures are and how theyre  carried  out, thats  a matter for Capital One to 
decide. Their system  clearly highlighted the payment as potentially  suspicious and I havent 
seen anything which makes me think that was unreasonable.  I understand the transaction  
went through after theyd made contact with Mr K to verify it. I realise  this was frustrating for 
Mr K, but the security measures are in place to protect customers  like him and I havent seen 
anything which makes  me think Capital One carried out their process unfairly here.
As to the cash withdrawals, I think Capital One acted reasonably  in declining  these. If they 
had allowed them, they say Mr Ks account  would have gone  over the agreed credit limit. 
And that could have  put him in breach of the agreement.
Mr K found  the situation frustrating and inconvenient, so I realise this will be disappointing to 
him. But, based on what Ive seen, I think  Capital  One have acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and carried out their procedures  fairly. 
I havent seen  any evidence of loss suffered by Mr K. He says he could have lost the special 
offer price  of the flight and missed  out on his holiday. But I cant  ask Capital One to pay 
compensation for something which might  have happened.  Mr K says he used a debit  card in 
the end to pay for the flight at the special price and, from what Ive seen, he made the trip. 
Although his payment wouldnt have had the same protection as if it had been made on a 
credit card, I havent  seen anything to suggest there was a problem with the flight. And the 
cost of it meant that Mr K couldnt have paid for it on his credit card anyway because it 
exceeded the credit limit. So Im not going to ask Capital One to refund him the cost of the 
flight or do anything else here.
Ref: DRN05655173my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0565517