K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt deal properly with another  drivers claim 
against his motor insurance policy,  which meant that there  was a county court judgment 
against him. 
 
background
In July 2017, Mr C had an accident.  The other driver made  a claim against Mr Cs policy  with 
AXA. In March 2018, the other driver obtained a county court judgment against Mr C. I 
understand that the county court judgment was removed from Mr Cs credit file in September 
2018. 
Mr C says that the county  court judgement caused him difficulty in that he and his family  
wanted to relocate. In November 2017, Mr C had reserved  a new build  property. He says he 
couldnt proceed with the purchase of the reserved property as his financial  adviser  told him 
not to apply for a mortgage until this issue was sorted out. In April 2018, Mr C cancelled  his 
reservation for the purchase of the new build property. 
Mr C says that in May 2018, he had to complete a vetting  form for a new job and that he 
shouldnt have had a county court judgment against  him. 
Mr C says that his life was on hold, as he couldnt  relocate  until the county court  judgment 
had been removed. He says that this matter  put a huge strain on his family and that hed 
spent a significant amount of time travelling to find a new home  once the county court 
judgment was removed. He said that he had to pay £12,000 more  for a similar new house  in 
the same  area.  
AXA paid Mr C compensation of £300  and asked him for further evidence. 
Our investigator initially thought that AXA should pay Mr C for a non-refundable  reservation  
fee of £250 and compensation of £750 for his distress and inconvenience. Mr C didnt  think 
that was enough. 
Our investigator looked at the matter  again  after the county  court  judgment had been 
removed from Mr Cs credit file. She said that the compensation payment should increase to 
£1,000. Mr C still didnt  think  that was enough.  He said that his life was destroyed  for over 
six months and that the investigator  hadnt  mentioned that it cost him substantially  more to 
buy the same sort of house  than hed reserved before. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that AXA didnt respond to the other drivers solicitors in a timely way 
and didnt ask for a certificate of cancellation  on payment of the debt. That meant  that there 
was a county  court  judgment against  Mr C for almost six months.  That was entirely 
avoidable. 
Ref: DRN03547212Under our rules,  Im required to determine cases by reference to what  I consider fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of each  complaint I determine. We can award  
compensation for loss, distress and inconvenience  to aim to put Mr C back  in the position  
he would  otherwise have been  in but for anything AXA did wrong.  
I accept that Mr C was advised to delay securing a mortgage until the county court judgment 
was removed. That no doubt contributed to him cancelling his reservation of a new build 
property. Ive seen  that £250 of Mr Cs deposit  for his reservation was non-refundable.  I think  
that AXA should refund that amount and pay interest  on it from the date of cancellation in 
April 2018, as Mr C has been kept out of the use of that money. 
Mr C initially said that he had to spend  £12,000 more  on a similar new house in the same 
area as his previous reservation. Hes subsequently told us that the sale of his current  home 
has fallen through  and hes no longer trying  to move home. I dont  think that Mr C has shown 
that AXAs error caused him loss in relation  to the purchase price of a new home.
Mr C converted our investigators  view of the appropriate level of compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience into a daily rate. Thats not how we approach  fair awards for 
distress and inconvenience. We look at the overall picture and the impact  of the error on the 
individual concerned. 
I think Mr Cs distress and inconvenience  arising  out of AXAs error were  substantial.  He was 
worried about getting a mortgage;  this matter contributed to him cancelling one reservation 
and starting a house search again. Mr C says that he had to be vetted for his new job. He 
was no doubt  embarrassed at having to explain why there  was a county court judgment 
against him. 
Considering everything, I agree with the investigator  that fair compensation for Mr Cs 
distress and inconvenience arising  out of AXAs error is £1,000. If AXA has already paid 
£300, it should pay Mr C the balance of £700.    
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I now require AXA Insurance 
UK Plc to:
1.Refund to Mr C his non-refundable  reservation  fee of £250 and pay simple  interest  
on that sum at 8% per year, from 6 April 2018 to the date of settlement.
2.Pay Mr C total compensation of £1,000  in relation  to his distress and inconvenience.  
If its already paid him £300, it should  pay him the balance  of £700.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mr C 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off, if he asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Louise Povey
Ref: DRN03547213ombudsman
Ref: DRN0354721