K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains he couldnt transfer money  from his TSB Bank Plc current  account.  
background
In late June 2018 Mr M wanted  to transfer money  from his TSB current  account to an 
account held elsewhere. He says he logged into his online banking facility,  took the steps 
necessary to make the transfer, but wasnt able to make it. After a few days he complained 
to TSB but didnt  get a reply so he complained to our service. 
In late July 2018 an investigator  considered  the matter and thought  it was most likely Mr M 
couldnt make the transfer because of TSBs ongoing problems following an IT systems 
change. He recommended that TSB restore Mr Ms online banking access and pay him £300 
compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience hed been  caused. TSB 
accepted the recommendation.  Mr M didnt  disagree with it. The £300 compensation was 
paid about a week later. 
In early September 2018 Mr M contacted the investigator to say he still couldnt use online  
banking and hadnt heard  anything from TSB. He said because  he couldnt transfer money 
from his account  he couldnt pay for work  on a property he wanted to rent out, so he was 
losing out on rental  income. He didnt think £300  compensation  was adequate in the 
circumstances. 
Another investigator considered Mr Ms comments,  as well as the information previously 
provided. She didnt  think she could  fairly  say Mr M couldnt access his money to pay for 
work on a property because he could access his money through a branch or telephone  
banking. She suggested  he call TSBs online  banking number to see if it could help with his 
access problems. Overall,  she felt the £300  previously recommended  was fair 
compensation. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He said hed continued to have  problems since  the recommendation for 
£300 compensation was made  in late July 2018 and that this matter negatively  impacted a 
holiday. He wanted the complaint  considered  further. 
In early October 2018 the investigator  called TSB to explain that Mr M wanted  more 
compensation. TSB reviewed its records and said Mr M couldnt  access online banking  
because of security concerns, rather than because of the IT problems it was experiencing. It 
said he needed to call and go through some security questions or visit a branch. 
The investigator told Mr M about this. He said he knew access  was restricted  for security 
reasons, but felt some of the security questions he was asked were unclear  and that TSB 
should have been more  proactive about contacting  him to get the matter resolved. Mr M 
asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter so the complaint was passed to me. 
I contacted Mr M and TSB for more  information. From this, and the information already 
available to me, I concluded the following:
-I was satisfied TSB had restricted access to Mr Ms account for legitimate security 
reasons. So I didnt think it was wrong to restrict access. 
Ref: DRN01436952-Mr M made  a couple of calls to TSB to try to get access  restored.   These were 
unsuccessful, in part because of a disagreement  over the clarity of a question. I didnt 
think this was solely TSBs fault.  Although  I accepted this would have been frustrating 
for Mr M. 
-I thought when the investigator recommended TSB restore Mr Ms online access it 
should have contacted  him to facilitate  this. That the problem wasnt  IT related didnt 
prevent TSB from being proactive in arranging a call to go through  the necessary 
security questions. But on the other hand,  Mr M, knowing it was security related 
rather than IT related,  could have made  contact with TSB too.
-Mr M had made a number of complaints to TSB which werent responded  to. I 
thought this would have been frustrating for Mr M. But he was aware of the backlogs 
it faced and he had an ongoing  complaint with our service.  So I didnt think he would 
have been surprised to not get a response.   
-Mr M went into a branch in November  2018  with ID and access was restored  
straightaway. Given he knew the problem was security related rather than IT related, 
I thought he could have done this much sooner if he was in urgent need  of the money  
in the account.  So I didnt think TSB was responsible  for any losses which  might  have  
arisen by Mr M not having access to his money.
Overall, I didnt  think TSB caused Mr M a financial loss. And I thought the amount of distress 
and inconvenience  caused by TSB, which Mr M couldnt have avoided,  was relatively minor. 
So I thought  £300 compensation was fair. 
I explained this to Mr M. He didnt  agree  and asked me to consider further  comments and 
evidence. Mr Ms provided his comments and evidence. This included  a detailed  timeline  of 
what had happened  on the complaint, as well as copies of correspondence  previously 
provided. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including what  Mr M has sent most  
recently. Having done so, I remain of the opinion that £300 is fair compensation, for the 
reasons Ive previously  explained to Mr M.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  However as TSB Bank  plc has already paid Mr M £300 
compensation to Mr M, and as he now has access to his account, I make no direction. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0143695