K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in July 2004. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Santander  has said but Ive still decided  to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. 
This is because Santander  recommended the policy to Mr S but I dont think  it was suitable 
for him. Mr S has told us he was off work with a long term sickness for nine months in 2001.  
The nature of the illness was one it may have been difficult for him to talk to the adviser  
about. And I dont have  clear evidence that Santander properly drew to Mr Ss attention the 
limitations in the policy about claiming  for something related to a pre-existing medical  
condition.  
The policy said:
We will not pay the monthly benefit  if your disability arises from any of the following:  
any condition you had at the start date, or any condition  for which  you received 
treatment or advice during the 12 months before the start date. This will not apply  
where you have been  symptom free and not consulted a doctor  or received treatment 
for the condition in the 24 months  prior to your claim, if you have had appointments to 
see a doctor  within  the 24 months prior to your claim but these  appointments were  
not kept, the exclusion will apply unless you have  been  formally  discharged.
Mr S has confirmed  that he continued to have treatment in a period that would have fallen 
under the policy  wording  above. I also think,  given the severity  of his illness in 2001,  it is 
likely hed have thought he might need  further  treatment in the following years.
I dont think Mr S would  have bought the policy if Santander had made  clear  the limitations in 
the policy. So, I think Mr S has lost out. 
fair compensation
Santander UK Plc should put Mr S in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and Santander UK Plc 
should:
Pay Mr S the amount  he paid each month for the PPI
Ref: DRN06712952Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year 8.
If Mr S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Santander UK Plc can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander UK Plc must  give Mr S a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.  
I require Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr S compensation  in accordance with the calculation of 
redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0671295