K820x#14complaint
Miss S is unhappy about the balance  Shop  Direct Finance Company Limited;  trading as 
Very, say remains on her account. 
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2020.  I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Miss Ss complaint in part. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
Miss S opened an account with Very in November 2010. She complained  to them about the 
statement of account  she received in February  2018  (statement  96) which  detailed  the 
payments taken from and paid to her account  the previous month. She disputed the 
outstanding balance explaining that shed only ordered two items that month and that shed 
returned a third item (some jeans priced at £80) which seemed to have been charged  and 
should not have been.
She also explained that a jumper had been charged twice and she didnt think the credit for 
that had been applied  to the account.
Very accepted that they had made a mistake. They said Miss S had bought the jumper  in 
December and it had been credited back to her account in January. But they said theyd 
made a mistake when  later re-charging for that item three times in February and only 
crediting it back twice. So they agreed  to credit  Miss Ss account with £100 (the cost of the 
jumper). They didnt  think anything else was wrong  with the account  but they did agree that 
Miss S had been  inconvenienced by the mistake theyd made and they said theyd pay her 
£75 to compensate  her for this.
Miss S referred her complaint to this service  and our investigator  took a look at the evidence.  
He reviewed statement  96 and thought  the balance hadnt been calculated properly. He 
noted that a Fred Perry jumper priced at £80 and the jumper,  referred  to above, were listed  
as having been charged and re-credited on the statement  but that the balance didnt reflect  
this. He thought  Very should therefore  make  some adjustments to the balance  and pay 
Miss S £100 in respect  of the inconvenience shed experienced.
Very didnt agree with the investigator. They said the balance on the account  had been 
correctly calculated once  the £100  was returned  for the jumper  charged in error.  They  did 
accept the investigators  suggestion that they pay £100 compensation but didnt  think 
anything else was due.
Miss S disagreed with Very. She said that the balance had been  overstated by £280  and she 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I dont currently agree with the investigators view.  Im not expecting to ask Very to change 
the account balance but I do think they should pay some compensation to Miss S. Please let 
me explain.
Ref: DRN07255232Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I can understand the confusion here.  The statements are complex and difficult  to read and 
theyre made  more  complex by the addition of items purchased under a buy now pay later 
scheme.
Im not persuaded by the investigators reasoning. I think statement 96 does  balance.  Im 
also not persuaded by Miss Ss argument that the account balance is overstated by £280 for 
similar reasons.  Please let me explain:
Rather than trying to justify the various interpretations of the account balance  that have been  
proposed, I have reviewed the statements to ensure they have been constructed  properly 
and calculated correctly.  I dont think theres sufficient evidence that the statements are 
wrong.
The jumper  (item LRQFR) was bought in December 2017 and shown  on statement 94. It 
was credited back on statement 95. However, statement 96 shows that three payments  were 
taken for the jumper in January 2018 but only two were credited. So one appears to have 
been charged in error and I see that Very have agreed to credit this as the product wasnt  
received.
I note that Miss S hasnt suggested  any of the products werent delivered to her. Shes 
challenged the balance on the statement. So Ive reviewed that balance but I cant  find 
anything wrong  with it.
Statement 96 says:
Opening balance {A}: £3017.09
Less {B}: payment made £54
jeans returned £80
balance of adjustments £100
Add {C}: items ordered £484.99
Service charge £19.34
New balance  (A-B+C): £3287.42
Ref: DRN07255233I understand that within this statement is an additional charge for the jumper. But as Very 
have agreed to pay this I cant find any evidence that the statement they provided is 
incorrect. 
Very have offered  to pay Miss S £100  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience she 
experienced as a result of their mistake when charging for the jumper. I think thats fair but I 
cant see evidence of any other errors and Im therefore not expecting to ask them to take 
any additional action.  
my provisional decision
Im expecting to tell Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited to credit  £100 for the jumper 
(item LRQFR) that they charged  for in error  (unless theyve already done this).  Im also 
expecting to ask them to pay Miss S £100 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced.
Shop Direct agreed with my provisional decision and Miss S provided some additional 
information. She explained that:
since December 2017 she had received just one jumper priced at £16. No other 
jumpers have been ordered or received and any jumper applied  to her account  in that 
time had been  applied  in error.
she wasnt disputing the jeans which she agreed  had been  credited  back to her 
account.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Miss S has provided any further  information that would lead me to change my 
decision. Very agreed  to refund the additional charge they made  for the jumper  and have 
agreed to pay £100 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused. I cant find anything  
wrong with the balance  that is now being stated  on the account and I therefore find no 
reason to change  my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Shop Direct  Finance 
Company Limited  to credit £100 for the jumper (item LRQFR) that they charged for in error  
(unless theyve already  done this) and pay Miss S £100 to compensate her for the distress 
and inconvenience  shes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0725523