K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained to us about  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy sold to him 
with a credit  card by Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland).  
background
Our adjudicator assessed this complaint and was of the opinion that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. 
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint  has been passed  to me 
to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C, but Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain the 
reasons for this. 
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the policy and based on the 
information thats been provided to us, Mr C met those rules. This means that he was 
eligible for the cover and could have claimed  on the policy  if he had needed to.
Next Ive considered  whether Bank of Scotland made it sufficiently clear to Mr C that the PPI 
was optional. Mr C applied for the card and the policy by filling  out a postal application form 
in 1999. Mr C told us that he didnt require  the policy.
Ive seen a copy  of the application that Mr C completed. This contained a section about the 
PPI. It invited him to sign in a separate box to say whether or not he wanted  to take out the 
policy. In my opinion, having  read this, its most likely that Mr C would have understood that 
he was being  given a choice and it was open to him to decline the PPI. So overall, I think 
that Bank  of Scotland made it sufficiently clear  to Mr C that it was optional  and I wont be 
upholding his complaint on this basis.
Next, Bank  of Scotland  didnt  recommend the PPI cover to Mr C, so it didnt have to make 
sure that it was suitable for him. However, it was required to give him information  that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so he could  make the decision for himself  about whether or not 
to take the policy.  
Mr C told us that Bank of Scotland  didnt give him a clear explanation about the PPI. He told 
us he didnt need the policy as he was in secure  employment. He told us that if hed been 
too ill to work, he would have been entitled to generous sick pay benefit. He told us that he 
recalled the sick pay would have lasted for up to twelve months. But he also gave us other 
Ref: DRN03025962figures and to his credit,  he acknowledged  that it was possible his memory regarding  his sick 
pay wasnt consistent. 
Given that the sale took place over 20 years ago I can understand it might not be possible 
for Mr C to recall every detail about the time of the sale. Its not unusual  in cases  such  as 
these for information to be incomplete  or missing. From our experience, full sick pay for 
twelve months is rare. Ive had to take these matters  into account in making my decision. 
Having considered all the available information I think  its unlikely that Mr C would have had 
full sick pay for twelve months  but Ive proceeded on the basis  that he would have had as 
much as six months full sick pay followed by six months half pay.
Next, given his circumstances  Mr C wouldnt have been affected  by the main exclusions and 
restrictions under the terms  and conditions. And the cost of the policy  was comparable  to the 
cost of other,  similar policies available at the time.  Mr C also told us that he had access  to 
equity in his home which  he could have  used if necessary. But the PPI was designed to help 
him avoid  precisely  this kind of difficult financial situation. And he seems to have decided 
that he wanted the cover. So on balance, I dont think  having better information would have 
dissuaded Mr C from taking out the PPI. In summary, this means that Bank of Scotland 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the policy  to Mr C.
But Bank of Scotland will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mr C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has offered  to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bank  of Scotland should  also pay back  to Mr C any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
Bank of Scotland should re-work the credit card account and pay back  to Mr C the difference 
between what Mr C owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Bank of Scotland  should also pay Mr C 8%* 
simple interest (15% before April 1993) if he paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN03025963Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0302596