K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E have  complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) will not refund any 
commission it received from their loan payment protection  insurance  (PPI) premiums for a 
number of policies.   
background
Mr and Mrs E contacted BOS to complain about the level of undisclosed commission  (and 
profit share)  received by the BOS  on their PPI policies attached  to a number of loans. Ive 
only looked at loans ending *504, * 547, * 792, *954 *187 and *221 as well as loan *903 as 
part of this complaint as BOS has confirmed these were all part of a series of loans. Any 
other loans  not listed have not been  considered  as part of this complaint. 
BOS explained  that for loan *903 it has already fully upheld Mr and Mrs Es complaint so it 
did not need to do anything further  in relation to the amount of commission  and profit share  it 
received for the PPI. This was because when  it offered compensation, it had refunded 
everything they had paid towards PPI, and this included all the commission and profit  share 
it received. 
For loan *221, BOS  says Mr and Mrs E didnt have PPI so they never paid any commission 
in relation to this loan, so BOS didnt  feel it needed to refund anything  in relation to this loan.
For the remaining  loans,  BOS said that theyd  suffered no loss in relation  to those PPI 
premiums so it didnt feel it needed to do anything  further to put things right.  Mr and Mrs E 
still feel they are owed a refund in relation to these loans.  
Our adjudicator looked at Mr and Mrs Es complaint  and thought  BOS  had acted  fairly  and 
didnt need to do anything further. As the matter hasnt been  resolved, its been passed to 
me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As these  loans were  sold and closed over 10 years ago, there  are limited documents 
available from the time of sale. So Ive had to look at the evidence that is available which  
includes computer records BOS still retains  to help me decide this case.   
Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that the PPI premium from loan account *903 has 
been refunded  in full and loan *221 did not have PPI. So I dont think BOS needs  to pay 
Mr and Mrs E anything  in relation to these loans. 
In relation to the remaining loans, I am satisfied that all of these PPI policies were cancelled  
shortly after they were opened.  And while PPI had been added  to the accounts on opening; 
BOS credited those  accounts with the PPI premiums in full shortly after they were cancelled. 
It might help to explain that the PPI Mr and Mrs E were sold with these loans were single 
premium policies. This means they borrowed extra money to pay for the premium and this 
was added to the loans.  So until Mr and Mrs E made  any repayments  towards  the loans, 
they wouldnt actually  have paid anything for the PPI.
Ref: DRN09935022While I understand Mr and Mrs E say they never received a refund for the PPI attached to 
these loans, based on what Ive seen, it looks like the cost of the PPI was credited back  to 
these loan accounts before any payments were taken from Mr and Mrs E. As they dont 
appear to have actually paid anything  towards  the PPI premiums  and, therefore any 
commission, on these PPI policies,  I dont think theyre entitled  to any of the commission  
back from BOS  now.  
I would also add that in 2017,  following a Supreme Court judgment,  the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA),  issued some rules  about how businesses should deal with complaints  
about the non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold.  
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
BOS has given me information that shows Mr and Mrs Es loans were all taken out before 
April 2007. And they all ended before April 2008  loan *903 was closed in October 2006 
which is the final loan in the series.  So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair 
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment,  or the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation  to the non-disclosure of commission  apply 
here.
So irrespective of whether Mr and Mrs E feel they did make any payments towards the PPI,  
as their loans were started  before April 2007 and ended before April 2008, BOS doesnt  
need to refund any of the commission they paid for the PPI they had with those loans
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0993502