K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about Nationwide Building  Societys handling of the savings accounts he 
holds for his grandchildren. 
Hes said it wouldnt  provide him with copies of letters sent on the accounts or the branch 
managers statement about  this; he believes  he was given the wrong balance information for 
the accounts over the phone and he hasnt been able to play the call recordings it had sent 
him.
background
Mr D has three savings  accounts with Nationwide with his grandchildren as the beneficiaries.  
When one of these  was going  to be changing to a different sort of account,  Mr D spoke with 
a manager at his local branch of Nationwide. They suggested they would write to Mr Ds 
grandchild, inviting them to contact the branch about  this. The manager  told Mr D theyd 
done this, but hadnt  had any response. Mr D wanted a copy  of the letter but it hadnt been 
kept. Nationwide said this was in line with data protection requirements. Mr D was 
concerned about  what  address itd been sent to but Nationwide  couldnt  say what  this was, 
and so Mr D complained.
Nationwide asked the branch manager  for a statement in relation to Mr Ds complaint  but it 
wouldnt let Mr D have a copy of this as it said it contained business sensitive information.
In June 2018, Mr D called  Nationwide to ask what the balances  of his accounts were. But he 
then received a statement which showed the total balance was different  to what hed 
thought. When  he called  to ask about  this, Nationwides adviser apologised. They said 
maybe it had been mis-read but they didnt know what had happened. They confirmed  the 
correct balance and suggested Mr D visit a branch to have his passbooks  updated  so he 
could see the transactions  on each account. Mr D complained  and wanted  to know why hed 
ben given the wrong balance in his previous call.
Nationwide listened  to the recording of the original call and said the individual  correct 
balances of the three accounts had been  given to Mr D  he hadnt  been given a wrong 
combined total. But Mr D felt the second  adviser had admitted a mistake had been made. He 
asked for copies of the call recordings  of these conversations.
Nationwide sent Mr D a CD of the calls,  but he wasnt able to play it. Nationwide  apologised 
and sent Mr D a cheque for £50. It said instructions on how to play the CD shouldve  been 
included in its letter. It sent him further copies of the CD, after checking that they could be 
played, but again Mr D was unable  to listen to them.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She arranged for Mr D to receive  
transcripts of the telephone  calls.  But she didnt think Mr Ds complaint should  be upheld.  In 
relation to the letters to Mr Ds grandchildren, she said the branch  manager had acted 
outside of normal  procedures by contacting them, as account  information would only 
normally be sent to the account holder. But she thought it was likely that the letters  would 
only have invited contact  with the branch. She said that if the letters hadnt contained any 
specific account information, she couldnt say that Nationwide  needed to keep them on 
Mr Ds account records. The investigator thought  Nationwide had exercised its right to keep 
the branch managers  statement about this confidential.
Ref: DRN02966662In relation to the account balances being  given over the phone, the investigator listened to 
the call recordings but didnt think the wrong  balances had been given to Mr D. Although she 
said that the second adviser apologised to Mr D, this didnt mean they were admitting there 
had been a mistake  with what  Mr D had been  told about the balances. 
The investigator said Nationwide  had offered Mr D £50 as it hadnt initially given him the 
instructions about  how he could  play the CD it sent him but she didnt think it needed to do 
any more than this.
Mr D wasnt happy that the transcripts were  complete and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the letter sent by the branch  manager  and their statement for the complaint investigation
The branch  managers  offer to send a letter to Mr Ds grandchild as the beneficiary of the 
savings account  seems to have  been done  to try and help Mr D. It wasnt a usual request; 
they sought the permission of their supervisor  and Nationwide  has told us that account 
correspondence would usually be addressed to the account holder, rather  than the 
beneficiary.
Its not clear whether  no copy of the letter was kept or whether it was destroyed, but 
Nationwide no longer has any record of it so it isnt possible  to confirm which address it was 
sent to.
I can appreciate why Mr D wanted  to know this and have a copy of the letter, but I dont think 
Nationwide has done anything wrong  by not keeping a copy, when it was an attempt by the 
branch manager  to help Mr D. The information provided suggests  the letter was a way to ask 
Mr Ds grandchild to get in contact with the branch  about the account.
As part of its investigation  into Mr Ds complaint, it asked the branch manager for a 
statement. Nationwide said it wouldnt release a copy of this to Mr D and I think it was 
entitled to make this decision.
the balance information for Mr Ds accounts
Ive listened to the relevant call recordings and also read the transcripts of these. And I 
havent seen that the transcripts were incomplete.  The telephone conversations  flowed 
normally. One person  may have started a sentence or was spoken over by the other person 
and I think the transcripts  reflect  this as there was often times when a sentence wasnt  
finished before the other person began talking.
And in the particular  call where Mr D asked about  his account balances; he wasnt  given an 
overall total for them. Mr D asked  for the balance on four accounts and each account 
balance was read out separately and given  correctly.  This doesnt show that he was given 
the overall incorrect balance that he recalls.
Ref: DRN02966663I also note that the balance  of Mr Ds own account was read out first and he acknowledges 
that he mis-heard this in the phone call. He repeated back that the balance  ended with 40p 
and the adviser  confirmed  again  that it actually ended  with 48p. 
Considering this, I think its possible that the £1.44  difference  in the balance Mr D thought  he 
had may have been the result of mis-hearing what was said or writing it down incorrectly  as 
an overall amount,  rather than Nationwide giving Mr D wrong  information.  Two of the 
accounts had exactly the same  balance, and these ended with 08p. The adviser read these  
out correctly to Mr D. But if, for example, he had mis-heard or noted these down as ending 
with 80p instead then this wouldve meant a difference of 72p on each account equating to 
an overall difference of £1.44.
The second  adviser Mr D spoke to about  this apologised but said they werent on the original 
call and speculated that maybe  it was mis-read. They confirmed  what  the balance was in 
total and individually on the accounts.  That adviser wouldnt have been able to know why the 
balance Mr D had written  down was different to what the actual balances  were. But I dont 
think that what they did say was an admission  that Nationwide  had made a mistake, when 
they couldnt know this. The adviser seems to be looking  to respond to Mr Ds concerns and 
make sure he has the right balance information.  
The problem in listening  to the CDs
Its unfortunate that Mr D was unable to get the CDs Nationwide  sent him to play correctly.  
Its not clear why this was but I understand that it caused Mr D to visit a branch to see if they 
could be played  there and also that he went to a computer specialist for advice. I appreciate 
that this will have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr D. 
And Nationwide acknowledged that it hadnt  given the full instructions  for playing the CDs in 
its first letter.  It apologised for this and sent Mr D £50. It also sent him a further  CD which 
was checked before being sent to him with instructions. Mr D has now been  sent the 
transcripts of these  calls and I think this is a reasonable resolution to this particular aspect of 
his complaint.
Overall, I dont  think Nationwide has acted unreasonably or has given Mr D the wrong  
information in relation  to his accounts.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to as Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0296666