K820x#14complaint
Miss S complained that she was mis-sold  a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy with a 
hire-purchase agreement for a car by First Response Finance Ltd (First Response). 
background
Miss S bought  the PPI policy  in July 2010  when  she bought a car. First Response  said that 
the sale took place by phone and that it recommended the policy. Miss S complained that 
she only took the PPI because  she thought she had to.
This was a single premium PPI policy, so the cost (£114.50) was added  to the borrowing and 
was repayable, with interest, over the 24-month  term.  The policy  provided  life, accident and 
sickness cover. If there had been a successful  accident and sickness  claim, the policy  
wouldve covered  the monthly repayments for up to the remaining term of the agreement.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that First Response mis-sold 
the policy, so didnt uphold the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
First Response sent in a recording of the phone call during which the PPI was sold.  Having 
listened carefully to the call, Im satisfied  that Miss S was given a choice  about  taking the 
PPI, and that she agreed to do so. 
First Response advised Miss S to take out the policy.  So it had to make  sure that it was 
suitable for her. I think it was. 
The adviser briefly mentioned the things not covered  but I cant  see that Miss S wouldve  
been affected by any of these. Miss S told the adviser that she wouldve been entitled to six 
months full sick pay from her employer, and after that she wouldve  had statutory sick pay. 
She also told us that she wouldnt  have had any savings  she couldve relied on. Overall I 
think Miss S couldve found it difficult to meet the monthly loan repayments quite quickly  
once her full sick pay ended  and Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for 
longer than that. 
Ive also looked  at the cost of the policy, and Im satisfied that the potential  benefit 
reasonably exceeded the cost. And although I dont think Miss S wouldve received a pro-
rata refund of the premium if shed repaid the finance early, Ive no evidence  to say that she 
planned to do this at the time of the sale. So overall I dont think there  was anything wrong 
with First Response recommending the PPI.
Ive also considered the information that First Response gave Miss S. The adviser  gave brief 
details of the cover, and said the full details would be available  when Miss S went  to the car 
dealership to sign the papers. I think the cost disclosure could have been clearer, in that the 
Ref: DRN09109242difference in payments quoted with and without  PPI did not accurately reflect the premium  
and the monthly  payment on the PPI element of the borrowing was not explicitly stated. 
However, the total monthly payment with PPI was correctly stated, and the total cost of the 
PPI, including  interest, was also disclosed.  The monthly payment on the PPI borrowing was 
£6.30, which was a relatively small amount.  And it was made clear that Miss S could change 
her mind  when she went to the dealership  to pick up the car (and the correct figures were 
shown on the hire-purchase agreement).  I also note that the adviser didnt correctly state the 
cancellation terms. But as Ive said, theres  no evidence Miss S planned to repay the 
borrowing early,  and in fact the agreement ran for the 24 months stated.  Overall,  I dont think 
clearer information during the phone call wouldve affected Miss Ss decision  to take the PPI. 
It couldve provided a useful benefit if she was off sick. 
Taking everything into account,  Im not satisfied that theres enough  evidence  to say that 
First Response mis-sold  the policy to Miss S. 
Ive also thought about the commission Miss S paid on her PPI  and whether First 
Response treated her unfairly. 
First Response has told us that the commission for Miss Ss PPI was less than half of what  
she paid for the premium.  Weve looked  at how First Response has been working this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Miss Ss commission was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell her about the 
commission  so I dont  think  First Response  treated  her unfairly. This means it doesnt need 
to pay Miss S back  any of the commission she paid for the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0910924