K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Santander  UK Plc unfairly declined their request to port their 
mortgage. They were  unable to purchase the house they wanted and have had to move  into 
rented accommodation.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a repayment mortgage  with Santander in September 2017 for 
£274,000. An early repayment  charge (ERC)  of about £8,000  applied  until September  2019. 
The mortgage offer said the mortgage was portable.
Mr and Mrs S wanted to move to a different area and in August 2018 they applied  to port 
their mortgage. Their first application was declined by Santander. They applied again  for a 
cheaper property. The price of the property they wanted to buy was about £40,000 less than 
the property they sold and they wanted to use this to reduce their mortgage balance. 
Santander declined  Mr and Mrs Ss porting request as it didnt think the mortgage would 
remain affordable. It said they didnt  meet  its criteria which  require self employed applicants 
to have been trading for two years. Mr Ss income had fallen after he became self employed.  
And Mr and Mrs S had taken out a loan in March 2018.
Mr S says Santander didnt assess their application  fairly and they had no problem affording  
their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S went ahead with the sale of their property but not their purchase. The 
mortgage was repaid  in November 2018.  Mr and Mrs S moved  into rented accommodation.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He said it was unfair for 
Santander to decline to port Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage on the basis  of affordability.  He said 
Santander should refund  the early  repayment  charge, allow  Mr and Mrs S to port the 
mortgage to a new property and compensate them for the additional costs  associated with 
renting and moving house more than once.
Santander didnt  agree. It said it was prompted to carry out an affordability  check due to 
indications of financial problems. It said the budget planner showed Mr and Mrs S had a 
monthly deficit. 
Santander said given  the time passed,  Mr and Mrs S should complete a full mortgage 
application and be advised on the best interest rate available based on their needs  and 
current financial situation. It offered to do this immediately, so that Mr and Mrs S didnt have 
to wait for an ombudsman  to make a decision. Santander said it would refund part of the 
ERC if the application  is successful and compensate Mr and Mrs S for the additional costs of 
renting by reducing the mortgage  balance. It offered £500 compensation, but not to refund 
the £225 mortgage administration  fee. Mr and Mrs S said theyd like an ombudsman to make 
a decision.
I agreed with most, but not all, of the investigators recommendations. So I sent a provisional 
decision to the parties  to explain  what I thought should happen.  I wrote  again to the parties 
about what I thought should  happen  in light of the uncertainty arising from the Covid-19 
pandemic. Both parties  agreed with my provisional  decision, as amended to deal with the 
circumstances arising  from the Covid-19  pandemic  and related Government  restrictions.  
Ref: DRN09709912my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
I dont think Santander  approached Mr and Mrs Ss porting request in the right way. They  
already had a mortgage with Santander. The sole reason Santander declined the application 
to port the mortgage was on the grounds of affordability.  It carried out an affordability  
assessment, and used  the results of that to decline Mr and Mrs Ss application to port. But I 
dont think it needed  to do that  and doing  so wasnt, in the circumstances, a fair thing to do.
I say that having  taken  into account the rules of mortgage regulation.  The rules are set out in 
the Mortgages and Home  Finance: Conduct  of Business Sourcebook  usually known as 
MCOB  which is issued  by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules significantly 
changed in April 2014 following the completion  of the FCAs mortgage market review,  or 
MMR.
One of the outcomes of MMR was a much stricter assessment of affordability  for all lending. 
But the FCA recognised that this might cause  difficulties for existing borrowers. So it 
introduced flexibility  to allow for exceptions to be made. 
The requirement to carry out an affordability  assessment is contained  in rule 11.6.2. But 
thats qualified  by rule 11.6.3, which says that the requirement doesnt apply if:
the application doesnt involve  further  borrowing (except to add fees to the loan); and
there is no other change to the terms of the mortgage likely to be material  to affordability.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  want to take further  borrowing. Quite the reverse;  after porting their 
balance would have  reduced from about  £265,000  to £225,000. Nor was there any other 
change to the terms of the mortgage likely to be material  to affordability.  So this case falls 
within rule 11.6.3 and there was no requirement to carry out an affordability  assessment.
This doesnt mean Santander couldnt carry out an affordability assessment  only that it 
didnt have to. Santander must also take its customers best interests  into account. Here, 
Santander said it was prompted to carry out an affordability assessment by the information it 
received. Mr S had recently become self employed which led to a drop in his income. 
Mr and Mrs S wanted to move to a cheaper property, which Santander  said could be a sign 
of financial vulnerability.  It said when it did checks it found that Mr and Mrs S had recently 
taken out a loan and were utilising their credit  card limits. 
Mr and Mrs S say the change in Mr Ss employment  meant they didnt have to stay where 
theyd been living. They were able to move  to an area nearer Mrs Ss family,  with better 
schools and other facilities for the family. Property prices were lower  and their living 
expenses would also reduce. They wanted  to reduce their mortgage  balance and monthly 
payments. Initially, Mr and Mrs S said theyd use the equity  from their sale to repay  all other 
credit commitments  and support outgoings  while Mr S built up his business income. When  
their first application was declined, they said theyd use the equity to reduce the mortgage 
Ref: DRN09709913balance. Mr S said if his business  income didnt cover their needs, hed return to employed 
work and in the new area would expect  annual income of about £55,000. 
I think thats reasonable, and so I dont think that requiring Mr and Mrs S to pay off the 
mortgage completely  is the only outcome compatible with their best interests. The rules 
allowed Santander to dispense with the affordability assessment, and  in this case   I dont 
think refusing the port on affordability  grounds was fair.
To put matters right, I think  Santander should  allow Mr and Mrs S to port provided that they 
find another property  within a reasonable time.  Ive thought carefully about what this means,  
given the uncertainty arising from the Covid-19 pandemic and Government restrictions, and 
asked both Santander and Mr and Mrs S for their views on this.
Given the current circumstances,  I think Mr and Mrs S should  have nine months  from the 
date they accept my decision  to apply to port the mortgage. They  can make more than one 
application during this period if, for instance, a property purchase falls through  for any 
reason. Theyll have  another six months  from the later of (a) the date of application or (b) the 
end of the nine months  period for their purchase  to complete. Overall, I think  this will give 
Mr and Mrs S a reasonable  amount of time to find a property and to complete the purchase,  
even if restrictions are increased from time to time over the next year.  
Mr S raised concerns about the time limits  in the current situation. He asked what would 
happen if Santanders own processes take longer, for instance due to working  differently to 
meet Government guidelines on social distancing. Or what happens if it declines their 
application. Id expect Santander to deal fairly  with Mr and Mrs Ss application, taking 
account of my decision and the time constraints. And Santander will of course bear in mind 
the need to treat Mr and Mrs S fairly,  which could suggest an extension would be fair if 
Santander is unable  to deal with their application in a timely manner. But Mr and Mrs S 
should bear in mind  that Santander could decline their application for reasons  other  than 
affordability  for instance if the property  isnt suitable security  or the loan-to-value  is outside  
its lending criteria. 
Mr and Mrs Ss product has ended, so they will need  to choose a new product once theyve 
found a property. Santander  should  send information to Mr and Mrs S about  the available  
products and if appropriate arrange a meeting to discuss which product is most suitable. 
However, it shouldnt  decline Mr and Mrs Ss application solely on the basis  of affordability, 
provided they arent asking to increase their borrowing  (as compared to the mortgage they 
repaid).
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Santander compensate  Mr and Mrs S for the 
searches and legal costs  related to their aborted purchase. But I think  it should. I appreciate 
that it was Mr and Mrs Ss decision to incur  costs before having an offer in place. But I think  
its likely  the reason the purchase didnt go ahead was because  Santander  didnt port 
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  and Ive found  that this was unfair. Because  of this Mr and Mrs S 
will have to find a new property and will incur these  costs  again. So unless I receive 
evidence that the purchase would have failed for another  reason, I think  Santander should 
refund these costs.
Mr and Mrs S have  incurred costs as a result of their mortgage not being ported  and I think 
Santander should compensate them for this. So I think Santander should:
Ref: DRN09709914(A)allow the redeemed  mortgage to be ported to a new property, provided this is within  the 
time limits set out above.
(B)calculate the ERC for the portion of the mortgage that is ported and refund it to 
Mr and Mrs S on completion.
(C)calculate the difference between (a) the monthly  rental payments Mr and Mrs S actually 
paid and (b) the monthly payments  they would have made on an interest  only mortgage 
with a balance  of £225,000 and at their previous  interest rate; add interest at 8% simple 
from the date of payment to completion;  and deduct the result from Mr and Mrs Ss 
mortgage balance  at completion.
(D)pay £150 for the tenancy administration fee; the removal costs  for either Mr and Mrs Ss 
move into rented accommodation  or their move to the property they purchase 
(Santander to choose); and costs related to their aborted purchase.  Mr and Mrs S will 
need to provide evidence of each of these costs and that they were  paid.
(E)calculate interest at 8% simple on (B) and (D), in each case from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement and pay the result to Mr and Mrs S. If HM Revenue & Customs 
requires Santander  to deduct  tax from this interest  it should  give Mr and Mrs S a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted,  if they ask for one.
(F)pay Mr and Mrs S £750 for the upset and inconvenience.
Items (B) to (E) will only become due if Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage is ported in accordance 
with (A). However the compensation  in (F) should  be paid as soon as possible after 
Mr and Mrs S accept  my decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to take the steps and 
pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 July 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0970991