K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the mortgage settlement figure provided to him by Blemain Finance 
Limited (Blemain). He thinks they calculated it wrong and he also thinks  the interest  rate 
they have been charging has been too high. 
background
Mr W took out a repayment  loan with Blemain in April 2015. He borrowed £45,400 over 
twenty years  with a variable interest  rate of 9.65% per annum. Monthly  payments  were 
£427.64 and Mr W would  therefore repay  a total of £102,663.60 over the term of the loan.
He says he was never  told that the interest rate was fixed  and that if he was he wouldnt  
have signed up for the loan. 
He was also disappointed in December 2018 to receive a settlement figure  of £43,345.80 
from Blemain. He said hed already  paid them nearly £19.500 and wouldve expected  a 
lower figure. He said there must  have  been a mistake.
Blemain explained  that interest was applied to the loan monthly and the balance  of the 
capital would reduce slowly at first as most  of Mr Ws payment was going towards the 
interest. They explained that as the balance reduced  and more  of the monthly payment went  
towards paying the capital, the rate at which  the balance reduced would increase. But having 
checked the account they could assure  Mr W that no mistakes had been  made.  They went 
on to explain that the interest rate that had been  applied to the account was the rate that had 
been agreed at the inception of the finance  agreement and that theyd no mistake there 
either.
But Mr W was still unhappy so he referred  his complaint to this service and our investigator  
provided an opinion.  He also checked  the calculation Blemain had done  and confirmed it 
was in line with the way interest was supposed  to be calculated  and that had been  set out in 
the terms and conditions of the loan agreement. He thought the same  was true about the 
interest rate so he didnt think there was evidence Blemain had done anything wrong or 
needed to take any further action.
But Mr W disagreed and he asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN07939192the redemption  figure
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ws account  explained  the likely repayment  figures  that 
Mr W may have to pay if he wanted to settle his account early. They said that if he paid 60 
monthly instalments  he could expect to have to repay £40,922.36. Here Mr W says hed paid 
45 instalments when Blemain told him hed have to pay £43,345.80  to settle  his account. So 
he shouldnt have been surprised at that figure  as it seems in line with the contract.
The contract also explained how interest was calculated  and added  to the agreement. It 
said:
interest is calculated on each due date by applying the interest  per annum to the balance 
outstanding on the preceding due date and dividing the product of that application by 
twelve. The resulting amount  is then added to the balance outstanding. 
Ive checked Mr Ws statement and can see that interest appears  to have been applied to 
this formula. So overall, I cant  see that Blemain have made  an error in calculating  the figure  
required to settle  the account.
the interest figure
The interest rate is stated  as 9.65% (variable) in the terms and conditions. The contract  goes 
on to explain that the rate may vary:
at any time.  However, we will only vary the interest rate to respond proportionately to 
changes in our funding costs. 
I can see that the interest rate wasnt increased  or decreased and, as the interest rate was 
clearly stated and Ive not been provided  with any evidence to suggest  that a different 
agreement to that in the terms and conditions had been reached,  it would not be fair to 
suggest Blemain  hadnt been  reasonable in applying the contracted  rate.
porting of the mortgage
I can see that Mr W was also unhappy  about the charges Blemain required to move his loan 
to a more favourable rate.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service isnt free to consider every complaint that is brought to 
us. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules detail which  complaints we can consider. 
Amongst other tests the customer has six months  from the date he or she receives the 
business final response letter to refer their complaint  to us. After  six months  has elapsed 
this service needs consent from the business to consider a complaint, and failing this it can 
only do so if there are exceptional circumstances why it was brought late.
Here Mr W received a final response about this issue in June 2017 but didnt raise his 
complaint to us for more than six months. There are no exceptional circumstances I think I 
need to consider so Im afraid Im therefore  not allowed  to consider this part of Mr Ws 
complaint.
Ref: DRN07939193my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0793919