K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited (trading  as Autonet Insurance  
Group) automatically renewed his insurance  policy which means  he is now being  chased for 
an outstanding  balance.
background
In March 2018 Mr B took out a commercial vehicle insurance policy through Autonet  for his 
van. As part of the information gathering process Mr B provided Autonet  with an email  
address which  he agreed could be used  for correspondence purposes. 
In March 2019 the end of the original policy term was approaching  so Autonet  sent Mr B two 
emails with information about  the renewal process.  These emails  confirmed  that if Autonet  
didnt hear from Mr B the policy  would automatically renew. Autonet didnt receive a 
response from Mr B so the policy was renewed  at the end of March 2019. A further email 
was then sent confirming the policy renewal.
Towards the end of April Mr B contacted Autonet to discuss cancelling  the policy  after 
noticing it had renewed. Autonet told Mr B that there was an outstanding  balance of £186.51 
due for payment. This is made up of a charge from the insurer for the time on risk, a renewal 
fee and a cancellation fee. Mr B was unhappy  with this saying that the policy  shouldnt  have  
automatically renewed as he didnt  receive the renewal  emails.
Mr B complained to Autonet who reviewed what happened.  It explained  that renewal emails 
were sent so it didnt  think any error was made. Autonet also explained  that under the 
Continuous Insurance Enforcement  (C.I.E.) legislation vehicles are required to have valid 
insurance cover so it wouldnt be possible to back date the cancellation as that would mean 
there was a time when the vehicle  was uninsured. 
Mr B remained unhappy  so brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. After looking  at what  happened  our investigator 
thought Autonet acted fairly and reasonably when auto-renewing  the policy. Mr B disagreed  
with this so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons.
I appreciate Mr B says he didnt receive the renewal emails as he says that it is his sisters 
email address and she didnt read the emails, nor pass  them onto to him. This might  be the 
case, however  Mr B gave Autonet that email address, and agreed it could be used  for 
correspondence purposes, so I think its reasonable thats the email address  which  was 
used. 
Autonet has provided persuasive evidence that the emails were sent to the email address  
Mr B provided. So whilst Mr B says he doesnt  have access to the account, Im satisfied 
Autonet fulfilled its obligations by sending the information to the email address that Mr B had 
provided.
Ref: DRN04264592While I agree it mightve been helpful  if Autonet tried to phone Mr B, or send him a letter, I 
dont think this means it had to. I think it did enough  by sending two emails to the email 
address he had given and agreed  could be used for correspondence. I also note that a 
further email was sent after the policy renewed confirming the renewal and providing policy  
documents. And I dont think its Autonets fault if Mr B didnt read these. I also dont think 
theres anything wrong with sending renewal documents by email,  and its not uncommon  to 
do so in the insurance industry.
As Mr B didnt tell Autonet not to renew  his policy I think its reasonable that the renewal took 
place. I therefore  think its fair for Mr B to be charged the cancellation  and renewal fees in 
line with the terms  of business  of the policy. This is because Autonet  has incurred costs  by 
carrying out administrative  tasks  and such fees are generally in line with industry  practice. I 
also think its reasonable for Autonet to pass on charges from the insurer for the time Mr Bs 
policy was on risk as Autonet has no control over this.
Theres no evidence that Mr B told Autonet that he didnt want  the policy to be renewed. 
Taking into account the C.I.E. legislation, and the lack of response from Mr B either 
confirming that he either  no longer wanted  or needed the policy,  or that the vehicle  had been  
declared off the road, Im persuaded it was right that Autonet renewed his policy. Further, 
given that Mr B didnt  contact Autonet soon after it sent out the renewal information to him; 
(albeit that he may not have  received this information) Autonet wouldve been in the wrong if 
it had not renewed  his policy in those circumstances.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied Autonet acted correctly, and in a fair and 
reasonable way, when  renewing the policy  so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0426459