K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy that he incurred an early repayment charge (ERC) when he redeemed his 
mortgage with Santander UK Plc during a preferential  interest  rate period. He says he 
shouldnt have been allowed to proceed with the rate change on an execution-only basis, 
and Santander  should have stopped him from making the wrong decision.
background
Mr C had a Santander  mortgage and his preferential rate had ended. 
On 13 August 2018 he phoned Santander  to see what options were available to him. The 
first call handler discussed the basic information and then passed Mr C to a mortgage  
specialist. In the second call Mr C selected  a rate fixed  at 2.29% until 2 November 2020. The 
rate had an ERC of 3% of the amount repaid for that same period.
The mortgage offer Mr C accepted set out the information about the rate, the ERC and also 
said:
What happens if you move  house?
If you move  house you may be able to transfer  this mortgage to another property as long as 
you meet  the conditions  set out in the mortgage  conditions booklet under Transferring your 
loan to a new mortgage. You must  also meet our lending criteria and pass our affordability 
assessment at that time.
In January 2019 Mr C complained to Santander about the ERC hed been quoted when he 
asked about redeeming his mortgage. Santander rejected his complaint.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt recommend it should be upheld. Mr C 
didnt agree so it has been passed  to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In the initial  call Mr C was asked if he was planning  to move house in the next six months. 
Mr C said he was and that hed be moving to a larger property with a significantly bigger 
mortgage Ill be looking  to increase the mortgage with yourselves  [sic] later in the year. The 
initial call handler told Mr C Santanders rates are portable You take the product with you if 
youre borrowing  the same amount or more, there is no penalty.
This information was reiterated in the conversation  with the mortgage specialist where Mr C 
said - in relation  to his anticipated  house  move - he was looking  to stay with yourselves 
[sic] anyway and Ill be increasing the mortgage with yourselves [sic].  Mr C later asked So 
am I tied in for two years? So if I did move  home  and increase the mortgage would I be able 
to take the mortgage with me? The call handler confirmed that was correct.
Thats correct information; Santanders preferential mortgage rates  are portable. The 
problem was that Mr C never put an application  in to port his rate, instead he opted  to 
redeem the mortgage and pay the ERC. Ive no reason to believe that an application to port 
the mortgage wouldnt have been considered  in line with Santanders normal  policy.  If Mr C 
Ref: DRN06996402had put an application in that met policy  he could  have kept his preferential  rate and wouldnt 
have incurred the ERC. I cant hold Santander liable for Mr Cs decision not to do that.
Mr C says he contacted  Santander to apply  for a new mortgage on the new property, and he 
was told it wouldnt be an issue but there  would be the ERC. Ive listed  to the calls on 
7 January and 8 January  where porting was again explained to Mr C and he was told if he 
stayed with Santander on the same  rate then he wouldnt  incur the ERC. In one call Mr C 
was told If you wanted to waive that early repayment charge then youd have  to take that 
deal youre on with you now. To which he replied  theres much better deals out in the 
marketplace than that for a house  purchase. And in another Mr C admitted Ive been  
offered a mortgage  at 1.87% which I suspect you guys wont  be able to get near.
Mr C has said having listened to all the calls he had with Santander in August 2018 his 
conclusion is that he wasnt given the correct  advice for his situation. But Mr C wasnt given  
advice about his situation, therefore he couldnt have been given incorrect advice. The 
service Mr C opted for was execution-only; by that we mean no advice is given. 
Mr C has said I would  have  liked a member of Santanders staff to assess  my situation & 
either recommend what product was best for my circumstances  or as a minimum 
requirement, stop me from making the wrong  decision regarding  my own choice of 
mortgage. But the moment Mr C opted to proceed  on an execution-only basis  Santander 
couldnt do this, as it would constitute  giving advice. That said,  as Ive explained above, 
planning to move to a new house and take a larger mortgage within  the ERC period wouldnt 
make the rate unsuitable  anyway as the rate was portable, so no ERC would be payable  if it 
was ported. It was Mr Cs decision not to apply to port the mortgage as hed found a rate he 
preferred elsewhere.
Mr C has pointed to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA)  Principles saying, in relation  to 
Principle 9, This principal  [sic] states that "A firm must take care to ensure the suitability of 
its advice and discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon  its 
judgment. But as Mr C didnt receive  advice this Principle  isnt relevant as it relates to when 
advice is given.
I understand Mr C feels he shouldnt have been allowed to proceed on an execution-only 
basis, saying I think this non-advised / advised  option in their sales process should be 
reported to the FCA.  He says he wasnt warned that if he chose the execution-only process 
then he was effectively  waiving all his rights to complain.
Mr C didnt waive his right to complain, but a complaint  cant  be upheld  that a product was 
mis-sold as it was unsuitable  when the business  didnt advise a consumer to take that 
product. Santander  gave  Mr C details of the products  he was eligible for and it was up to him 
to decide which to take. If Mr C didnt feel confident making that decision for himself then he 
could have opted to take advice instead.
In the call Mr C was told With execution-only you forego the protection  of advice  and the 
product transfer  offer said:
Execution Only Conditions
1.You were able to specify your exact mortgage requirements and you did not receive any 
advice in this Execution Only process.
Ref: DRN069964032.You elected to proceed on an Execution Only basis understanding  that you forego the 
benefits and protection provided when  receiving advice on a mortgage.
3.You have provided us instructions on your requirements and we have  executed those 
instructions making no recommendation  or assessment of suitability.
Please read carefully before accepting. If there  is anything that you do not fully 
understand about the risks associated with electing  to proceed on an Execution  Only 
basis and foregoing the benefits and protection  of advice, please contact  us.
In terms of reporting it to the FCA, Santander hasnt  done anything wrong. The relevant part 
of the FCA rules is in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(MCOB). The relevant section is:
Exception: rate switches  and other variations
MCOB 4.8A.10
(1)MCOB 4.8A.7 R does not apply in the case of a variation of a regulated  mortgage  
contract, provided that:
(a)the variation  would not involve the customer taking  on additional borrowing 
beyond the amount  currently  outstanding  under the existing  regulated  mortgage 
contract, other  than to finance any product fee or arrangement fee for the 
proposed new or varied contract;
(b)where the variation will (in whole or part) change from one interest rate to 
another, the firm has presented to the customer, using  only a non-interactive 
channel, all products  offered  by it for which  the customer is eligible, whether or 
not the customer then selects from those products  using an interactive channel; 
and
(c)where the firm has added to the range of products it offers  since it presented  its 
products to the customer for the purpose of (b), the firm presents its new range 
of products to the customer in a durable medium before  the customer submits an 
application.
MCOB 4.8A.7 says that most mortgages  should be taken on an advised  basis. What 
MCOB 4.8A.10 then says is that this doesnt apply for rate switches, and that a lender can 
process them on an execution-only  basis.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied Santander could offer an execution -only process 
and Mr C made an informed decision to choose  that route. Once  Mr C chose that route  
Santander was unable to advise him on the suitability of the product he selected, and it 
clearly set out the terms of the mortgage  in the offer Mr C accepted.  Taking all that into 
account I dont  uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN06996404my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr C to accept or reject  
my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0699640