K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that American  Express  Services  Europe Limited (AESEL)  wouldnt  extend 
his three  and twelve months introductory  offers after he didnt receive his new card promptly.  
He then made a payment on time but this wasnt reflected on his account and he was 
charged interest and charges.
background
Mr M took out a Platinum  Cashback Credit card and paid a £25 fee. But the card didnt arrive  
and he said he only received a replacement several  weeks later. This meant  he didnt get his 
three month bonus  period  and he didnt get a full year of benefits on the card.  On his first call 
to American Express he says it told him it would extend the three month  period  and see what 
it could do about  the twelve month period. But it later went  back on that promise.
Mr M says he paid the £25 card fee before the payment date. But he was charged a late 
payment fee and interest and his credit file was affected. He spent about 5 hours trying to 
sort this out on the phone.  He said American Express initially  said it was his own banks 
mistake and then admitted it was at fault.  It agreed to cancel all the charges and interest and 
said it would  correct his credit file. But it didnt apologise for its poor customer service.  
Mr M made a formal complaint but he didnt get a response within the agreed timeframe and 
he had to keep  chasing American  Express.  It said it sent him a letter but he didnt receive it. 
He asked it to email him but when he read it he thought the response was unsatisfactory. He 
wants a refund for his card, what he has earned in in bonus to date and sufficient 
compensation. He wants a personal  apology from one of the complaints handling team  and 
an explanation  from her seniors  as to why they think her behaviour is acceptable. 
American Express said it sent Mr M his card and the PIN on 31 August  2018.  They  were  
sent separately to the same address. On 12 September 2018 Mr M told them he received 
the PIN but not the card.  So it immediately sent a replacement  card to him. But it said there  
hadnt been any conversation about extending  the welcome offer. So it wouldnt extend  his 
offers because it didnt  think  itd done anything wrong. 
It said his payment in October 2018  didnt  show on his account because the full reference  
number wasnt given.  It arranged to refund him the interest charge and said it hadnt  applied  
a late mark to his credit  record. It said the payment  date was 21 October.  Payments are 
processed via Lloyds and so it doesnt receive  them  for 24 to 48 hours. It hadnt reached 
them when Mr M phoned on 22 October. When he phoned on 25 October it was found  in its 
holding account  because it didnt have a card reference to allocate the payment to.
The adjudicator thought  American Express had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly. She said 
American Express had provided  evidence that itd posted the card to Mr M. She said there 
wasnt any evidence that itd promised Mr M to extend  the three month bonus offer and the 
twelve month benefits period.
Mr M wasnt happy with this. He believes American Express  should give him the three month 
bonus period and the full one year term of the card as itd already promised to do this. On 
the phone  call where he asked for a replacement card a male operator  told him it wouldnt be 
an issue to extend  the three month  welcome  period if he called again when he received his 
card. 
Ref: DRN07775282He said American Express had accepted it received his payment on time on 20 October. 
Thats why its refunded the charges. But only after he wasted hours on the phone. So he 
wants to be compensated  for the amount of time hes spent on this. His frustration is that 
American Express admitted its errors but has now gone  back on that. And its misleading for 
it to say it takes 24 to 48 hours for payments  to reach their Lloyds account. He used same 
day faster  payment  not BACS
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from Mr Ms response  to the adjudicators view that Mr M doesnt think  this Service  
is impartial. But we look at both sides and we dont place more weight on the businesss 
explanation just because of who they are. We make a decision based on all the evidence 
available whether its written or spoken.  And if theres any disagreement we decide  whats  
most likely to have happened.
Ive looked at all the documentation that American  Express has sent us and Ive listened to 
the phone  calls on 12 September 2018, 22 October 2018 and 25 October 2018. Mr M 
doesnt believe its sent us all the evidence.  American Express  says its done  a thorough 
search using various references but has not found any evidence  of any other  conversations 
its had with Mr M about the bonus offers. And I cant  see anything  that would lead me to 
conclude its withholding evidence from us.
Mr M doesnt believe American Express sent out the card at the end of August 2018. He 
says hes never had any problems with his mail.  American Express  said it sent the card and 
the PIN separately.  The PIN arrived but the card didnt. Its computer records show  the card 
was produced on 31 August 2018  and dispatched the same day. It tells us it has rigorous 
security around the issue of cards. And I can see from its records it was sent to the address 
on Mr Ms application form.  It was eventually returned to American Express. So taking into 
account all that evidence I think it was more likely than not American  Express  sent it out on 
31 August 2018  and it was misplaced in the post. And I cant fairly hold American Express  
responsible for any failings in the postal  system.
Mr M says he was promised by American  Express that the three  and the twelve month 
periods would be extended.  In his complaint form he said it was during  his first call to 
American Express when  it told him the bonus period could be extended. And after the 
adjudicator sent him her opinion  he repeated that on the specific phone call where he 
asked for a replacement card to be sent he was told it shouldnt be an issue  to extend  the 
three month welcome period if he called again  when  he received his card.  And he said that, 
contrary to what the adjudicator said, he spoke  to a man not a woman. Ive listened to that 
call on 12 September  2018 as did the adjudicator. And I can hear that Mr M spoke to a 
female and there wasnt any discussion about  extending the three month or the twelve 
month period.  The phone call lasted approximately  seven minutes. 
Ref: DRN07775283Also in his complaint form Mr M said when he called American Express  back  after receiving 
his card it told him he couldnt have any extension to the bonus periods. The next record  of a 
phone conversation was on 22 October 2018  when he called about a problem with another 
card and then asked about his £25 payment. Mr M spoke to a female  operator  who couldnt 
see what had happened to his payment. But she said she would leave a note on the system  
to make sure that any charges would  be waived.  This call lasted approximately six minutes.
Mr M then called American Express on 25 October 2018 about  both issues.  The male 
operator assured  him his credit  file wouldnt be affected. But he said he couldnt  extend the 
two bonus periods on his card. After Mr M expressed his displeasure  at how he thought  he 
was being treated by American Express his call was transferred to a female manager who 
again reassured him about the refund  of charges and that there wouldnt be any impact on 
his credit record. That phone call lasts approximately 45 minutes  and Mr M eventually says 
he wanted to make a formal complaint.  
Again I can see how strongly  Mr M feels  about  this but I dont  have sufficient evidence  to 
conclude that American  Express  promised him it would extend  both the three and twelve  
month offer periods  when  he didnt get his first card on time.
The terms of the card offer state that the three  month welcome period begins from the date 
of the card approval.  And the anniversary month  is the one month period each year following  
the date on which the account  was opened. So each  period runs from the date of card 
approval or opening  and not the date of receipt.  If American Express hadnt sent his card out 
promptly then I think it wouldve been fair and reasonable for it to extend this period.  But for 
reasons Ive already given Im satisfied it didnt delay the issue of the card so I cant ask it to 
do that. 
Mr M says he made the £25 payment on 20 October  2018  and that has been accepted by 
American Express. So he should never have been  charged a late payment fee or interest.  
He wants an explanation why American  Express is no longer saying this is the case. He said 
it had openly admitted its mistake. Again I can see how strongly he feels about this and I 
know he will disagree with me when I say that I cant see that American Express  accepted  it 
was at fault for the problems over his payment. Or that it said itd received  the payment on 
20 October. But, in any event, when he made  his first phone call about this the female 
operator said she would leave a note on the system  for all charges to be refunded and to 
make sure his credit file hadnt been  affected.  Its done that. I think thats fair and 
reasonable. We are an informal  mediation  service and I wouldnt expect it to do any more in 
those circumstances.
Mr M also thinks American Express has given him misleading information about the time it 
takes for payments to reach his account.  But it seems  to me it was just repeating  the 
information thats on his monthly  statements about the method of paying.
Mr M has complained about the handling  of his complaint by American  Express. But I cant  
tell it how it should  deal with and handle  complaints.  Its complaint handling is not, under our 
rules, what  is called a regulated activity 
So for all those reasons  Im not going  to ask American Express to do anything  more.
Ref: DRN07775284my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Linda Freestone 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0777528