K822xcomplaint
Mrs C has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs C took out the PPI in April 2004 at the same time as she arranged  the credit card in 
branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs C says she didnt know anything about  the PPI and therefore it must have been 
automatically added to the credit card account  without  her knowledge or consent. The credit 
card application  form has a separate section for insurance. There is a pre-printed cross in 
the box to request PPI. From what we know of BoSs sales  processes at the time, I think  
there would have been a discussion about  PPI and that the cross would only have been 
entered in the box if Mrs C said that she wanted  the policy. The relevant section  of the 
application form also has the option to select another insurance product, but the box next to 
that has been left blank  to decline it. If, as Mrs C has said, the adviser automatically added 
the PPI to her account, I might have  expected  her to end up with all of the available  
insurance options.
The sale happened a long time ago, and its clear that Mrs C has no real recollection of the 
sale  as she thought that she took out the credit  card over the phone when in fact it was 
during a meeting in branch.. Ive thought very carefully about what  Mrs C has said, but 
looking at the evidence, I think it is more likely that the optional nature  of the policy  was 
explained. It seems to me that Mrs C probably decided  to buy it, knowing  that she didnt 
have to, even  if she no longer  remembers  doing so.
BoS advised Mrs C to buy the policy.  Therefore in recommending  the PPI to Mrs C it needed 
to ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, 
it was suitable  for her.
Mrs Cs employer would have given  her six months  full pay, followed by six months  half pay 
if she was unable to work  due to accident  or sickness. Mrs C says that therefore the chance 
that she would ever have  needed to claim were extremely limited.  But having sick pay 
wouldnt have prevented her from claiming  on the policy  - it would have paid out in addition 
to this, and potentially for longer than Mrs C would  have  received full pay for. And Mrs C 
didn't have any other means, such as savings,  to fall back on. Shes  said her husband would 
have helped, but other people cant always be relied  upon  because their circumstances can 
Ref: DRN09921392change. So I think the policy could have  provided Mrs C with a useful benefit at what would 
have been a difficult time.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Mrs C wasnt  affected by any of those things. 
As I think  that Mrs C had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think  that further 
information would have caused  her to change his mind.
This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Mrs C paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  plc has already offered to 
give Mrs C back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything  more.
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mrs C now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0992139