K821x#15complaint
Miss H has complained that she was obliged to take out a level term assurance (LTA) policy  
as a condition  of a capital  repayment mortgage  shed arranged  with Lloyds Bank PLC in 
1990. Otherwise, she would not have been  granted  the loan.
But she says she didnt  need to take out life cover  for this loan - the policy  was purely  for the 
benefit of the bank,  which also took a first charge  over the property.
Even if life assurance  was compulsory, she already held cover through her employers 
occupational pension scheme  that was more than sufficient  to repay the balance  outstanding 
on the loan at any time. 
But Lloyds wouldnt consider any existing life assurance provision  she held, or allow her to 
arrange an appropriate policy of her own - it insisted that she took out the policy it 
recommended.
Miss H has also complained about  Lloyds handling  of her complaint. Shes, therefore, 
requested a full refund  of premiums she paid to the LTA policy, plus interest, for the policy  
being mis-sold and compensation  for the trouble  and upset to which she has been put by 
Lloyds throughout  the complaints process.
background
Based on the documentation that exists from 1990, Mss H first enquired  about raising a 
mortgage with Lloyds in April 1990  and was provided illustrations for an endowment policy to 
repay interest-only loans of £48,000 and £50,000  in 25 years time. 
Having considered first-time buyer discount  and fixed rate mortgage  schemes  for loans of 
£45,000 and £42,000 also on an interest-only basis in July 1990,  Miss H initially  opted for a 
mortgage of £45,000, repayable on a capital and interest basis over 25 years.  And, having 
been provided illustrations  for a 25-year decreasing term assurance  (DTA)  policy and a level 
term assurance (LTA) policy  providing life cover  of £45,000 costing £5.10 and £7.35 per 
month respectively,  the adviser recorded  that she chose  to take out the LTA policy.
But a mortgage factfind Miss H completed with Lloyds in early August 1990 recorded  that 
Miss H would borrow £43,700 over 25 years  to buy a property valued  at £46,000. The 
factfind also confirmed  that: 
Life assurance will be required  in all cases to cover the outstanding balance of your 
Mortgage at any time and this must be assigned to the Bank. An illustration will be provided 
by Black Horse Life. You may offer existing policies or make your own insurance 
arrangements; however,  to ensure that these  are acceptable to the Bank, please provide full 
details.
While the factfind noted her occupation, it didnt record any existing life assurance  policies  
she held (including  death-in-service  benefits  from her employee pension  scheme). Neither is 
there any evidence  that Miss H proposed  to arrange  an appropriate life assurance policy 
herself.
Lloyds issued a mortgage offer to Miss H for a capital  repayment loan of £43,700 over 25 
years, covered  by a LTA policy providing  life cover  of £45,000  over 25 years. The advance  
Ref: DRN09076162was subject to the Bank having a first legal  charge  over the property and the life assurance 
policy(ies) stated in the offer.
The loan didnt  complete until mid-November  1990, when the LTA policy  also went on risk 
and it was assigned  to the Bank in January 1991.
Miss H says she complained to Lloyds about the sale of the policy when it expired in 
November 2015,  and made  a subject access request (SAR) for documentation surrounding 
the sale of the policy  in 1990. But, theres no evidence she raised a complaint with Lloyds 
until July 2018  when she contacted the department responsible for the sale of payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies. 
Lloyds couldnt  trace a PPI policy in Miss Hs name  and asked her in a letter  dated  6 August 
2018 to complete a questionnaire to trace the policy she took out and to set out her personal 
and financial  circumstances in 1990.
Miss H has provided us her letter of reply dated 15 August  2018,  including the completed 
questionnaire, in which she confirmed the policy was a LTA plan taken out over 25 years 
from October 1990, its policy number and why she didnt need a life assurance policy for her 
mortgage.
It does seem from a letter Lloyds sent to Miss H dated 29 August 2018 that it hadnt received 
her letter of reply and was, therefore, unable to continue its investigation. It duly closed  her 
complaint.
In response, Miss H telephoned Lloyds on 3 September 2018 dissatisfied  that it hadnt  
investigated the issue she raised  about  the LTA policy being a condition of her mortgage. 
Although there was some misunderstanding  as to the product Miss H was complaining about 
- the mortgage number  she quoted  was in fact the policy number - Lloyds did refer her 
complaint to the department which investigated the sale of term assurance policies.
Following a telephone conversation between Miss H and a Lloyds representative to 
establish the precise nature of her complaint, the representative drafted a final response 
letter (FRL) addressing her concerns that:
Miss H didnt need the policy as she had death-in-service benefits with her employer;
her policy  provided more cover than the amount she borrowed;
the policy ended several days before the mortgage was due to be repaid;
she didnt receive a response  to the same  complaint she made  when the policy 
ended in 2015;
she was dissatisfied  that its PPI department  hadnt been able to locate a policy  in her 
name even when she sent a letter which confirmed details of her and her policy.
In its FRL, Lloyds appreciated that the LTA policy  had been set up with too much life cover 
for Miss Hs mortgage and was prepared to refund the excess premiums she paid, plus 
interest, of £173.65. A cheque would be sent to her in the post which she ought to receive  
within seven to 10 working days.
Otherwise, Lloyds explained  that it didnt accept death-in-service  benefits under company 
pension schemes  as security for a mortgage  loan because employment circumstances can 
change and pension  benefits would cease on changing employer. Also, pension trustees 
could alter scheme benefits at any time and death-in-service  benefits cant be assigned.
Ref: DRN09076163Lloyds reassured  Miss H that she was fully covered by the LTA policy  while an outstanding 
balance existed on her mortgage because the policy expired four days after the mortgage 
was due to be repaid.  It also couldnt find any evidence that she had raised  this complaint in 
2015 when the policy ended and apologised that its PPI department  couldnt  locate a policy  
in her name with the information it received from her.
We understand its Lloyds practice  to call complainants to talk through its decision. But, as 
the author  of the FRL wasnt at work to make the call, it fell to one of her colleagues to 
convey the decision  to Miss H. 
This led to an increasingly fractious  telephone conversation in which  Miss H repeatedly 
stated that the FRL didnt resolve her complaint while the Lloyds representative continued to 
recite the decision Miss H was never going  to accept.  Miss H escalated  the matter  in a 
series of telephone  calls with the representatives team  manager,  who confirmed that the 
FRL dated 5 September 2018 had been  sent to Miss H and that, if she remained dissatisfied 
with the decision, she was entitled  to refer her complaint to our service.
As it was, Miss H contacted us on 21 September 2018 confirming that she still hadnt  
received the FRL. But, without knowing that Lloyds had already issued its FRL, we advised 
Miss H that Lloyds had eight weeks since  she first complained to issue  its final decision, so 
we couldnt act until 3 October  2018.
The complaint was subsequently considered  by one of our investigators,  who could see that 
Miss H had been advised to take out a policy that provided too much cover for the mortgage  
shed arranged. 
Accordingly, he was satisfied that Lloyds  had appropriately compensated her for the excess  
premiums shed paid to a policy providing  life cover of £45,000  over the premiums she ought  
to have paid to a policy  providing  life cover of £43,700, plus interest. This amounted  to 
£173.65 to September 2018.
Otherwise, Lloyds was entitled to require borrowers to have  in place adequate life assurance 
as a condition  of lending. This was a legitimate commercial decision taken by Lloyds  at the 
time and is one we cant challenge. If Miss H was against taking out life cover she felt she 
didnt need, she could have approached a lender for a mortgage which  didnt apply such  a 
condition. 
Also, the investigator reiterated that death-in-service benefits under an occupational pension  
scheme cannot be relied upon as appropriate  security for a large loan, as it existence  
depends on Miss H continuing to work for the same  employer  and/or the pension  trustees 
not changing the scheme benefits over the term of the loan.
However, as Miss H had arranged a mortgage that was repayable on a capital and interest 
basis, and she appeared to have no other  protection needs, the investigator couldnt 
appreciate why she was allowed to take out a LTA policy, rather than a DTA policy  which 
has a reducing level of life cover  over the policy term that tracks the outstanding capital 
balance of the loan at any time. 
He, therefore, recommended that, in addition  to £173.65 it has already awarded,  Lloyds 
should pay Miss H the difference in cost between the LTA policy she took out and a DTA 
Ref: DRN09076164policy she ought to have taken out, each providing  life cover of £43,700 over 25 years, plus 
interest to-date.   
With regard to Lloyds  handling of Miss Hs complaint, the investigator felt that, once its PPI 
team couldnt find a policy in her name shed taken out in connection  with a mortgage on its 
systems, it ought to have  realised that she might  have taken out some other form of 
protection for a loan and carried  out a wider search.  So, he thought  Lloyds should pay her a 
sum of £50.00  for the trouble and upset this had caused her.
In response, Miss H disagreed with some aspects of the investigators findings and said that: 
she still hasnt received Lloyds FRL dated 5 September 2018, so shes unsure how it 
proposed to resolve her complaint. She hasnt  received the cheque  for £173.65 
either;
she requested a copy of all documentation the investigator received from Lloyds on 
which hes based his assessment as it seemed he hadnt taken account of the 
information she had provided our service;
the documents she has since been provided were  out of order  chronologically, 
included alterations  that were  not signed  by her, papers were missing and 
illustrations dated July and August 1990  were for different policies;
the main issue is that she was told she was obliged to take out the LTA policy  Lloyds 
had recommended, knowing she was intending to obtain  a quotation though her 
employers union;
during its handling  of her complaint, Lloyds failed to linked the policy number she 
quoted with her mortgage;
the investigator failed  to appreciate  the benefits available  to her though her 
employers pension  scheme and that this would have been more than sufficient to 
cover the mortgage. Her conditions of service  and pension  rights were  transferrable 
from one employer  to another;
the LTA policy was the wrong  type of policy for a capital repayment loan, so the 
policy was miss-sold;
he didnt acknowledge  that Lloyds handling of her complaint  was wholly  
unsatisfactory - she received a telephone  call from one of its representative who 
hadnt been investigating her complaint but who was insistent on reciting  the decision 
to her when Miss H thought she was still engaging in an ongoing dialogue with the 
complaint handler over the merits of her complaint;
when she eventually  received the FRL dated 5 September 2018, signed by the 
complaint handler, it referred to this telephone  conversation even though she hadnt 
been in work  that day;
in her view, notwithstanding  the outcome of her complaint, compensation of at least 
£150 was merited  from the trouble and upset she had been caused  by Lloyds in 
addressing her complaint.
She also complained  to the investigators manager  about his conduct of a telephone 
conversation she had with him to discuss his assessment. This has been dealt with as a 
separate matter  outside this decision.  
Lloyds also responded to the adjudicators view that:
a recommendation  analysis  form completed  by the adviser  in July 1990 advised  
Miss H to take out a DTA policy for the mortgage  loan. But its recorded that she 
chose to take out a LTA policy and hasnt raised  this as a concern;
Ref: DRN09076165so, Lloyds did advise  her to take out the correct type of policy for the mortgage.  But 
she varied the recommendation and we should  reconsider the decision to refund her 
the difference in cost between the two types of policy;
when Miss H originally contacted Lloyds, she complained directly  about PPI, and not 
about the LTA policy.  So, its PPI team would  search for the type of product PPI cover  
would normally be associated with; for example, personal loans, credit cards  and 
mortgages. It  wouldnt be expected to search  every system for a completely different 
policy;
Miss H had previously corresponded  with the policy  provider in 2002 over a change 
to her direct debit details, so she knew which part of Lloyds to which  she should have 
directed her complaint;
with regard to the cheque  for £173.65  which  Lloyds issued on the same  day as its 
FRL dated 5 September 2018,  it hasnt been  notified that it wasnt  received or that it 
hasnt been cashed;
it doesnt feel its representative conducted  her telephone conversation  with 
Miss H on 5 September 2018  in a way that would cause her undue  upset.
As no agreement has been reached in this complaint, it has been  referred  to me for review.
  
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  listening to the 
recordings of all the telephone conversations between Miss H and Lloyds over the handling 
of her complaint, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her case.
Ive also noted  that Miss H has raised service complaints about  my colleagues handling of 
her complaint, which has been  dealt with as a separate matter.  So, this decision addresses  
the issues that concern her complaint about  Lloyds requirement in 1990  for her to take out a 
life assurance policy  as a condition  of her mortgage and its handling of her complaint.
Miss Hs complaint is about a life assurance policy she took out almost 29 years  ago she 
retained for 25 years until it expired in November 2015. So it has to be accepted that the 
documentation Lloyds  has been able to provide will be typical of the paperwork required to 
be completed at that time. In other words, I would not expect it to record  the finer details of 
her dealings with the Lloyds  adviser  in 1990, as it might if shed arranged her mortgage  in 
2019.
I appreciate also that there has been  some  confusion as to the insurer  thats actually 
provided the policy. But this doesnt  materially affect the outcome of the complaint.
Having said that, as Miss H is the only party to this complaint who was present at that time, I 
do give weight to her recollection of events she has since provided, as follows:
she was not told it was a condition of the mortgage when she first put an offer on the 
property and applied  for the loan early in 1990. It was only later in 1990, when she 
was committed to accepting the loan, and had already incurred expenses, that she 
was told a life assurance policy was needed;
Lloyds knew she had death-in-service  benefits  through her employers pension  
scheme;
she did approach  her union body for an alternative quotation for life cover  but it 
informed her that it didnt provide life cover  because this was already included in her 
Ref: DRN09076166employment benefits and, in any event,  she probably didnt need life assurance  in 
her circumstances;
but Lloyds  informed her that, if she didnt take out life cover,  it would withdraw its 
offer;
understandably, she doesnt  recall  what her annual salary was in 1990;
she has now received  a cheque from Lloyds for £173.65 which she has cashed.
Miss H says it wasnt brought to her attention at first that any mortgage she agreed with 
Lloyds would require  her to take out life assurance  dedicated to repay  the outstanding 
balance of the loan on her death.  But I can see that, in April 1990,  Lloyds  had already 
discussed different  types of loans with her, including  first-time buyer discounts and fixed rate 
schemes and had provided  quotations  for life cover (as part of a mortgage endowment 
policy) on the assumption that the loan would be repaid on an interest-only basis.  So, I think 
Miss H knew at an early stage that Lloyds required her to take out life cover for the loan, 
whatever the basis of repayment.
Lloyds provided  further  illustrations for mortgage endowment policies for different amounts of 
borrowing in July 1990. As it was, Miss H decided to arrange the mortgage on a capital and 
interest basis of repayment and also received illustrations for a DTA policy  providing  life 
cover of £45,000 over 25 years costing £5.10 per month and for a LTA policy  costing £7.35 
per month.
As the investigator  has already  said,  the requirement for Miss H to take out adequate life 
cover specifically for the mortgage loan was a condition of lending imposed by Lloyds at that 
time. It is not within my powers to decide  that Lloyds  should not have imposed that condition 
-  that was a legitimate  commercial decision  it was entitled to make whether Miss H felt she 
needed life cover for the loan or not. It was for her to decide  whether she accepted that 
condition when agreeing to borrow from Lloyds.  As far as I can see, she knew since  
April 1990 that life cover was a condition of the mortgage loan.
Indeed, she acknowledges this when confirming that she proposed to obtain  a quote for life 
cover through her union  (which  she was entitled to do). But it seems  she didnt pursue this 
alternative means of providing the necessary life cover because she says he was told she 
didnt need it. In which case, it was open  to her to decide not to proceed with her mortgage 
application with Lloyds and approach a lender that didnt  apply this condition.
But, in my view, theres no evidence  to indicate  why Miss H should require a LTA policy 
providing a fixed  level of life cover  over 25 year for a capital loan she would be repaying on 
an ongoing basis. As the investigator has noted,  she had no obvious protection need  beyond 
the mortgage.
While Lloyds has said that Miss H insisted on taking out a LTA policy,  and this was recorded 
by the adviser  at the time,  I would have expected to see a reason given for her wanting the 
increasingly surplus life cover this policy provided as she repaid the capital loan. All things 
considered, I agree  with the investigator that Miss H should have taken out a DTA policy  
providing life cover  of £43,700 on a reducing scale over 25 years.
Even though  the adviser didnt record the life assurance benefits Miss H received from her 
employer within its pension scheme,  he knew her occupation, he would have realised she 
was a member of her employers pensions scheme and the level of life cover the scheme  
provided.
Ref: DRN09076167But, as both Lloyds  and investigator have  said, death-in-service  benefits are not generally 
acceptable as security for a mortgage  loan because the pension  scheme  trustees could alter 
or remove the benefit at any time and they cant be assigned. Miss H would have  nominated 
a beneficiary to receive the pension lump  sum on her death and Lloyds would have no call 
on that money.    
When Miss H eventually  decided on a loan of £43,700, the mortgage offer she received in 
August 1990,  and signed on 3 September 1990, didnt alter the level of cover provided by 
the policy from £45,000. Lloyds has already accepted that this level of cover should  have 
been £43,700 and its offer of £173.65  has accounted for the extra  cost Miss H paid to the 
policy unnecessarily  for 25 years.
But, all things considered,  I cant agree  that Miss H should receive  a refund of all the 
premiums she paid to a policy providing  life cover that was a condition  of the mortgage she 
agreed to take out.
Ive seen no evidence  that Miss H made  this complaint to Lloyds when the policy  expired in 
November 2015.  And, even if there  was evidence  that she did so, I dont think it materially 
affects the outcome of the same complaint shes made in August 2018.
Its apparent that Miss Hs complaint was triggered by the widespread  publicity surrounding 
the sale of payment protection insurance  (PPI).
But a term assurance  policy  is not PPI, and the considerations in assessing the merits of PPI 
are not especially relevant  to the reasons for Miss H needing to take out a term assurance  
policy.
Briefly, a PPI policy would pay an income  benefit  equivalent to the monthly costs of a loan if 
Miss H was ever made unemployed or suffered long term incapacity  that prevented her 
working. 
A term assurance policy, on the other  hand, pays a capital sum in the event of her death at 
any time during  the policy term, equivalent to the outstanding balance of the mortgage at 
that time.  This debt (which could  still have been  a significant sum if she died shortly after 
taking the loan)  can therefore be repaid in full.
I appreciate that Miss H would have held life cover within her occupational  pension scheme. 
But, given the salary she was likely to be receiving in 1990, and the amount of death-in-
service benefit her employers pension scheme provided, its difficult in any event  to 
envisage that it would  provide a lump sum sufficient to repay a mortgage  loan of up to 
£43,700 at that time. Also, if, as Miss H says,  she nominated a family member to receive this 
lump sum, that person  would be financially  disadvantaged  if this money was required to help 
repay the mortgage loan on her death.
Furthermore, although Lloyds also took a first charge on the property, Miss H borrowed 95 
per cent of its sale price  at the time. If its value subsequently fell, and Miss H was faced with 
a negative equity  situation when she died,  Lloyds would not be able to recover  the whole 
debt. Hence, it applied  a condition for her to hold life cover which would benefit both Lloyds 
and the recipient of her pension scheme  death-in-service lump sum.
Ref: DRN09076168With regard to Lloyds  handling of her complaint, I have  listened to all the telephone 
conversations Miss H had with Lloyds representatives since  July 2018  and the written 
correspondence exchanged between them.
The main  issue seems  to concern the decision Lloyds made over her complaint that can be 
found in its final response letter  (FRL) dated 5 September 2018 and the communication  of 
that decision to Miss H before it was issued. Miss H spoke to the author of the FRL two days 
earlier and was informed  that she would receive  a decision shortly.  That wasnt  unexpected, 
as the nature of Miss Hs complaint is a common, straightforward issue that I dont think 
needed too much time to resolve.
While I dont disbelieve Miss H when  she say she didnt receive Lloyds FRL dated  
5 September 2018, or the cheque that followed,  I have no reason to believe they werent 
produced and issued at that time. That Miss H didnt agree with the decision doesnt mean 
Lloyds hadnt  addressed  her complaint with due care and attention.
The source of Miss Hs concern appears to be the telephone conversation  she had on 
5 September 2018 with a colleague of the complaint  handler, who made  it clear  at the start 
of the call that she was telephoning simply to relate the decision to Miss H. But it quickly  
became evident  that Miss H didnt agree that the decision resolved her complaint - she said 
the policy was mis-sold  and she should  receive a refund of all her premiums.  While I accept 
that it wasnt within the representatives  brief to re-assess  Miss Hs complaint, she did 
continue reciting  the decision after Miss H had twice asked  her to stop. 
While I appreciate why Lloyds adopts  a practice  of advising  complainants  verbally about the 
outcome of their complaint, given  how the conversation was progressing, it might  have been 
advisable in this instance for the representative to have cut short  the telephone call and 
informed Miss H that she would receive  the FRL in the post shortly  so she could  respond  to 
it in her own time.
But I dont think I can say Lloyds was rude,  aggressive or bullied Miss H in that call, or in any 
other telephone call Ive listened  to, as she has said. And, while  I appreciate Miss Hs 
strength of feeling  about her complaint at the time, and the frustration she felt that it wasnt  
being fully upheld, I cant appreciate how the actions of the representative prompted such  a 
reaction from her.
While any award for trouble and upset looks to redress the impact of an incident on a 
consumer, and not the nature of the incident  itself, I wouldnt consider making an increased  
award because  it provoked  a reaction  that was disproportionate to the effect I think it ought 
reasonably to have  had on a consumer. 
So, Im not inclined to increase the award for the upset Miss H has been caused  by Lloyds 
handling of her complaint to more than £50.
decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint.
I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay her redress, if any, of D + E, where:
Ref: DRN09076169A = the monthly premiums Miss H paid from time-to-time to the LTA policy  which 
provided life cover  of £45,000 over 25 years, less the monthly  premiums  she ought to 
have paid to a DTA policy providing  life cover of £43,700 over 25 years, from 
November 1990 to the end date of the policy;
B = interest on each  net premium  in A at the rate of eight per cent per annum simple 
from November 1990 to September 2018;
  
C = the sum of £173.65 Miss H has already  received for the surplus premiums she 
paid to the LTA policy  providing a sum assured  of £45,000 when it should have 
provided life cover  of £43,700, over 25 years, plus interest calculated to September 
2018;
D = A + B  C = the net loss to September 2018;
E = interest on D at the rate of eight  per cent per annum simple from September 
2018 to-date.
In addition, Lloyds  Bank  PLC should pay Miss H £50.00 for the trouble and upset she has 
been caused in this matter.
 
If Lloyds Bank PLC considers its legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest  
calculated in B and E above,  it must send a tax deduction certificate with the payment. 
Miss H may reclaim  any tax overpaid  from HM Revenue and Customs, if her tax status  
allows her to do so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2019 .
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0907616