K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited undervalued his car after it 
was stolen and he claimed on his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr Gs car was stolen. Admiral settled his claim valuing the car at £16,330. Mr G thought 
that was far too low. He instructed an engineer to value the car and brought his complaint to 
us. The engineers valuation was considerably higher than Admirals at £23,575.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Gs complaint. He thought  that it was fair to use the 
valuation from a single industry trade guide  to value the car. At the time that valuation  was 
for £21,571.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 April 2020, for ease I've copied my provisional findings 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it.   
Mr Gs policy  says that in the event  that Mr Gs car is stolen then Admiral would settle his 
claim by paying him its market value, less any excess. And it explained that the market value 
is the cost of replacing the car with one of the same make, model, mileage  and condition.
Finding the market value of a car isn't an exact science. But we generally find a useful 
starting point is to use the industry trade guides for valuing second hand  cars. Thats  
because those are based  on likely selling prices rather than the prices cars are advertised 
for. And well generally find the trade guides  more informative than adverts,  as those figures  
are usually inflated to allow room for negotiation.
In arriving at its valuation  Admiral followed our usual guidance for valuing cars. It looked  at 
valuations from three  guides.  Those are recognised industry trade  guides  used for valuing 
second hand cars. One of those  guides provided two separate  valuations, its own valuation 
and a second imported from another trade guide. But we don't find the imported valuations 
reliable and I note that Admiral hasn't  relied  on it either. The other three guides produced 
valuations of £16,330, £15,700  and £21,571. And where, as here,  one of the guides  is 
significantly out of step with the others then wed usually say its reasonable to disregard it. 
And thats what Admiral  did in this case.  It noted  that two of the guides provided similar 
valuations, while the third was over 32% more than the higher  of the other  two. So it 
disregarded that valuation and paid Mr G the highest of the other two valuations.  And, if 
Mr Gs car had been a fairly standard model  I would have agreed  that was a reasonable 
approach for Admiral  to take.
But in this case Mr Gs car wasn't  a standard model. The engineer Mr G instructed explained  
that very few of the exact  model of Mr G's car were made and sold in the UK. And that 
means that they are relatively uncommon.  So he said that the data sets that the trade guides 
used might not have  been reflective of the true value of Mr G's car. And he felt a fair 
valuation was £23,575, which he felt was more  reflective of the actual  market.
I've done  my own research into the specific make  and model of Mr Gs car. And that 
supports the engineers comments that the car is relatively uncommon,  with fairly few having 
Ref: DRN08855132been sold or up for sale recently. And the evidence  that Ive looked at would indicate  that the 
two guides Admiral used have  quoted valuations far lower than seem  likely to be achieved 
for a car with similar  mileage to Mr Gs. So in a situation like this, where a car is relatively 
uncommon, I think its reasonable to look beyond our regular approach to car valuation  and 
to consider other sources  when  looking  to value Mr Gs car. And that includes the evidence 
from Mr Gs engineer, whos  set out his qualifications in his valuation report. 
In coming to his final valuation  Mr Gs engineer has used valuations  from four specific 
sources and then found an average  value from all four. The four sources hes used are: two 
trade guides; a discussion  with the dealer whom Mr G originally  bought his car from; and an 
advert for what he's described  as an identical example car. But I don't find all those figures 
reliable. For example the engineers referred to a valuation from one of the trade guides, of 
£23,685, but hes clearly used  the wrong  year for the cars registration, referring to a 2009 
rather than a 2007 model. And that would have an effect on the value. So I don't think it 
would be fair to refer to that value when  looking  at a fair market  price.
The engineer also referred to discussing  the potential value of Mr Gs car with the dealer that 
Mr G bought it from. The dealer apparently told the engineer that he wouldn't have been in a 
position to sell the car himself, as owing to its mileage  he couldn't offer a suitable  warranty,  
but he would  value the car at £23,995. 
The engineer has also referred to an advertisement  for a car offered at £25,000, which he 
described as an identical example. The engineer hasn't explained why he believes that this 
is an identical example  and the copy of the advert in his report doesn't show  the cars 
mileage. But I assume the reasons the engineer felt it was an identical example would be 
because it would be of similar mileage to Mr Gs car with a similar service history.  But in any 
event, the engineer has commented that the actual sale price would be subject to 
negotiation, and he estimated that if the car had been sold by a dealer it would sell for 
£24,000. But, when  he calculated his final valuation, he used the full advertised price  of 
£25,000, rather than the lower  figure  he thought it would actually sell for. So it seems likely 
his average figure wasnt representative of the selling  price. 
The engineer also referred to a number of other adverts for cars. I think some of these can 
be disregarded as they are for cars with far lower mileage. But hes also included adverts for 
other cars: one with lower mileage but in a comparable bracket to Mr Gs was apparently 
sold for £28,000; a newer car but with higher mileage advertised for £21,900; one with 
higher mileage advertised at £23,495,  another with a much  higher mileage advertised at 
£19,250. And another with higher mileage  advertised privately at £17,800.  And those 
adverts, even allowing  for negotiation, would all seem to indicate that cars of this make and 
model even with higher mileage than Mr Gs - if sold at a dealership - would most likely sell 
for considerably more  than the two trade  guide figures that Admiral based its valuation  on. 
So I don't think  it would be fair to rely on the figures Admiral  used  when valuing the car.
Mr G has suggested we take the valuation using an average of the value given by the dealer 
he bought his car from of £23,995, the trade  guide  our investigator used of £21,571, and the 
likely sale price of £24,000 the engineer said was for an identical example. By my 
calculations that produces an average of £23,189. But as I've said above  Im unclear why 
the engineer felt that one advert was an identical example, and  even if it were  - I wouldn't  
generally think one advert  alone  would be enough to use as a basis  for an average 
valuation. And I note that this wouldn't seem to take into consideration the potential  work that 
Mr G's car would most  likely have required to address the advisories from the cars most 
recent MOT. 
Ref: DRN08855133But Ive noted  that a number of cars, some with higher  mileage than Mr Gs, were advertised 
for over £23,000. And I note that a dealer who has sold similar  cars valued Mr Gs car at 
£23,995. I note he did so without seeing it but I think hes likely to have a reasonable 
perspective on what these  cars will sell for. So I don't think  its fair to disregard his evidence. 
Nor do I think its fair to disregard the valuation the trade guide  produced  while our 
investigator was looking  into the complaint. It follows that, in the specific and somewhat 
unusual circumstances  of this complaint, I think its fair to value Mr Gs car based on an 
average of the trade guide  price  as found  by our investigator, £21, 571 and the valuation 
given by the dealer of £23,995, which  produces an average figure  of £22,783.
So I think that Admiral  should  increase its settlement based on the figure of £22,783 and pay 
any balance owing, after factoring in Mr G's excess,  to him. It should add simple interest to 
that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date it settled Mr Gs claim initially to the date it 
pays him the increased amount.  
Also, as Mr G had to go to the expense of paying  for his own engineer in order  to 
demonstrate that Admirals valuation wasnt fair, I think  it should  reimburse  him the £150  he 
paid for that report. It should add simple interest  to that sum from that date Mr G paid for the 
report to the date it refunds him.
developments
Mr G accepted my provisional  decision;  Admiral didn't. It said that it had followed our 
recognised method for valuing cars; including that as the highest  trade  guide  valuation was 
out of step with the others it was correct to disregard  it. It also made a number of comments 
on Mr Gs engineers report  including  that: it had used valuations  from an incorrect  date.  It 
said that Mr G's car wasnt a classic and as such there was no reason  not to value the car 
in line with the accepted  method.  It asked where  the evidence was for Mr G's engineers  
comments that the sale of one car could skew  the figures from the trade guides data sets. It 
said the majority of adverts the engineer  used  were for cars with lower mileage than Mr Gs. 
And that the valuations didnt recognise  the work Mr Gs car would require following the 
advisories on its most recent MOT. It also said that any extras on the car wouldn't  have 
added value.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
I noted in my provisional decision  that Admiral had followed  our accepted method for valuing 
cars, including  disregarding the highest  of the trade guides valuation.  And I said that if 
Mr Gs had been a standard  car that would have been reasonable. But I went  on to explain 
why I didn't think that method was reasonable in this case. It might help if I explain that while  
we generally think  the trade guides are a good starting  point to find the value of a car, they 
are not the only reference material we use. And, where, as here, we don't think  the trade 
guides provide  a reliable market value then we won't think its fair to follow  those rigidly.  
Instead we can look at other evidence in order to arrive at a valuation  that does appear  to be 
reflective of the market.
I said in my provisional decision that Mr Gs car was uncommon. I didn't say it was a 
classic nor does it have to be in order to conclude that some  of the trade guides might not 
Ref: DRN08855134be producing a fair market value for it. But where  cars are uncommon, and so there is less 
evidence for the trade guides  to use when providing  their valuations, there will be more 
scope for those figures to be varied with each individual sale.  And I explained in my 
provisional decision that many of the adverts Id seen, even allowing for negotiation and for 
cars with higher  mileage than Mr Gs car, were valued considerably  higher  than the trade 
guides Admiral had used to value  his car with. So I thought it was reasonable to disregard  
those trade  guides.  Admiral hasn't  provided  any further evidence or comments  to show why 
that conclusion  wasn't  fair.  
Admiral has made a number of comments about flaws in Mr Gs engineers report. But I 
didn't use Mr Gs engineers valuation as a guide  when arriving at a fair and reasonable 
valuation in my provisional decision. So I don't intend to address those points individually 
here. But I think its fair to point out that where  I didn't  think it was reasonable to have regard  
to evidence, for example where the engineer used the wrong  valuation  date or referred to 
cars with significantly lower mileage, I disregarded it.  
I did find some of the evidence the engineer provided useful. Particularly the evidence from 
the dealer who had previously sold Mr Gs car and the valuation hed put on it of £23,995. 
But I also noted that it wasn't  clear if that dealer was aware of the advisories on the cars 
most recent MOT. I also found that the trade guide that gave the valuation  of £21,571 was 
likely indicative of what some of those  cars might  have been selling for. So, in the specific  
circumstances of this case,  I thought it was fair to use an average of those two valuations. 
Those valuations aren't increased because of any extras. So I said Admiral should  settle  
Mr G's claim based on a valuation of £22,783.  I remain satisfied that's a fair sum.  I also think  
Admiral should reimburse Mr G the cost of the engineers report.  Admiral  should add simple, 
interest to those amounts at a rate of 8% a year. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to:
Settle Mr Gs claim for the loss of his car based on a valuation of £22,783. It should 
add simple interest to the balance it pays to Mr G at a rate of 8% a year from the date 
of its original settlement  to the date it pays him the balance.1
Refund Mr G the £150  he paid for his engineers report. It should add simple  interest  
to that from the date Mr G paid for the report to the date it refunds him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Admiral considers that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr G how much they have taken off. They should also give him a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN0885513