K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains that Skipton Building  Society  unfairly charged him a penalty when he 
withdrew money from his Lifetime ISA to purchase  his first home.  He also complains that 
Skipton sent a letter disclosing his private data to a third party  in error.
background 
I set out the background  to Mr Ps complaint in my provisional decision.  In that decision I 
also explained that I was intending to partially  uphold Mr Ps complaint. Below,  Ill again  
summarise the background to Mr Ps complaint  and will then go on to set out my provisional 
findings, so that all the relevant information  is in one document.
Mr P opened  a Lifetime ISA with Skipton on 14 March 2018 and he transferred into this the 
entire balance  of his Help to Buy ISA which hed had for some years.
On 24 April 2018 he contacted Skipton  because he wanted to buy a home using the money  
in this account. Skipton told Mr P that if he withdrew  money there would be a 25% penalty 
charge, in line with the terms and conditions of the account, because it had not been open 
for the minimum period of 12 months.
Mr P raised a complaint with Skipton. He said that the terms and conditions did not clearly  
state that the Help to Buy ISA did not qualify as part of the continuity of ownership of the 
Lifetime ISA.
Skipton provided  Mr P with their final response  by letter  dated  28 April 2018. They  said that 
the terms and conditions of the Lifetime ISA make it clear that the account  needs to be open 
for 12 months to qualify.  And they said that no indication was given that the Help to Buy ISA 
would satisfy the minimum period criteria. They said that the qualifying criteria  for house 
purchases utilising  the Lifetime ISA is set out by HM Revenue  & Customs.  So they cannot 
waive any penalties that may be incurred.
Mr Ps mortgage advisor complained to Skipton on his behalf around May 2018.  And in 
June 2018 his mortgage advisor received a letter that said that if Mr Ps account  was used 
for a first home purchase hed receive the full current  balance of his account without a 
penalty for the withdrawal. Mr P took this as clarification that hed have the full balance 
available for his house purchase and went ahead with the sale.
But shortly  before completion, Skipton advised  that they would not be releasing the full 
amount in the Lifetime ISA as the penalty  charge would  apply.  Mr P says he was forced  to 
accept the penalty because he was so close to the house sale going through. This left him in 
a position of financial hardship  and stress.  He asks for Skipton to refund the penalty  amount. 
Skipton have apologised that the June 2018  letter did not refer to the penalty charge if funds 
were withdrawn from the account within the first 12 months.  But they say the terms and 
conditions make this clear.
Mr P also complains that Skipton sent a letter to a third party  which Mr P says was a breach 
of his personal data.  Skipton have apologised for this and offered £40 in compensation.
Ref: DRN05561602Our investigator didnt  think that Skipton had done anything wrong when they deducted  the 
penalty charge  on Mr P withdrawing funds to purchase his home.  She thought theyd made  it 
clear that Mr P needed  to have Lifetime  ISA for 12 months before funds could be withdrawn 
or the penalty charge  would apply. And she thought it was reasonable for Mr P to have  
known from the information provided that the Help to Buy ISA wouldnt contribute towards 
the qualifying  12 month period. While she appreciated how Mr P had interpreted  the 
June 2018 letter, he did not meet the qualifying  criteria and the penalty had been correctly  
applied.
Our investigator also explained  that its for the Information Commissioners  Office (ICO) to 
decide if theres been a data protection breach. But from a customer  service  perspective she 
thought Skipton had fairly acknowledged theyd made an error when they sent a letter to a 
third party. And she thought the £40 compensation offered  was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr P did not agree  and so this case was passed to me for review. 
my provisional findings
I issued a provision decision on 29 March 2019 and my provisional findings are set out 
below: 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr P clearly feels very strongly  about  this 
matter. And thats not surprising. Hed carefully  saved  his money with the intention that it go 
towards his new home and then was unable to use all of it when he was charged for 
withdrawing his funds when he did.
At this stage, Im minded  to reach  a slightly  different conclusion to our investigator.  I agree 
that Skipton  didnt  do anything wrong  when  they deducted the penalty  charge on Mr P 
withdrawing funds  from his Lifetime ISA. But I do think their June 2018  letter  was unclear 
and gave the impression that he was exempt  from the charge.  It would  have been  
disappointing for Mr P to find that this was not the case when he later needed to access  the 
money. So I think Skipton  should pay him compensation for the trouble and upset he was 
caused as result of this. 
I agree  with the investigator about  the data protection issue.
So I partially uphold  this complaint. And I shall explain my reasons. Mr P has very helpfully 
set out his position clearly in writing. Although I may not refer to all his points,  I have 
considered them carefully. I have  focused here on the matters that I consider most relevant 
to my decision.
penalty charge
The Key Facts document on the Lifetime  ISA says at the start that it might  not be appropriate 
for a customer who wants to buy a house  within the next 12 months.
Section A sets out an example of how savings  would  be affected by the penalty  withdrawal 
charge. Section B says that the withdrawal charge doesnt apply when customers use the 
Lifetime ISA to buy their first home  and refers to Section  C for the qualifying  criteria. One 
requirement here is that the customer has held the Lifetime ISA for 12 months.
Ref: DRN05561603Section L explains that a customer can transfer  an existing Help to Buy ISA into the Skipton 
Lifetime ISA. While it sets out how a customer will receive the government bonus  on the full 
value of the amount transferred, as well as on any other money  paid into the Lifetime  ISA, it 
doesnt say anywhere  that such a transfer would backdate the opening date of the Lifetime 
ISA from which the 12 month  eligibility  criteria is calculated.
And the terms and conditions of the Lifetime  ISA say at paragraph  2.13:
The account  opening date is the date that we receive your first payment. This is the 
date your 12 month period starts if you want to make a withdrawal for a first house 
purchase.
So I cant fairly say that Skipton were not clear about the account opening date for the 
purposes of the 12 month eligibility criteria  and when the penalty charge would apply. And as 
Mr P opened  his Lifetime ISA in March 2018 and withdrew funds before 12 months had 
passed, I also cant say that Skipton did anything wrong when they deducted  the penalty 
charge on releasing  funds  to him when  he asked.
June 2018 letter
Mr P says that he took Skiptons  June 2018  letter as clarification that hed be able to 
withdraw the full balance  of his account and that no penalty charge would be applied.  And
I can see why he might think  that. The letter makes reference to Mr Ps mortgage  advisor  
making contact with Skipton on his behalf and how his complaint was discussed.  And it then 
goes on to set out the following:
Today's closing balance  (exempt  from penalty if applied to a house purchase):
£8,630.03
Today's closing balance  (25%  government charge applies if funds used for any other  
purpose): £6,461.95
Mr P was to use the funds  towards  the purchase  of a house so this suggests that he would  
be exempt from penalty and could use the full balance of £8,630.03. The lower  balance 
appears only to be applicable if the funds are to be used for a purchase of something other 
than a house in which case the penalty charge would apply.
I do think this letter gave  the impression that Mr P could use the full balance in his account 
as he was purchasing  his first home. Bearing in mind that the main  point  in Mr Ps complaint 
had been that he thought he should be exempt from the penalty charge, I think  this letter  
should have been clearer in how it set out the available funds here.
Ref: DRN05561604However, although Skiptons June letter lacked clarity, it does not change the fact that Mr P 
did not meet  the eligibility criteria for him to be exempt from the charge. But I do think  he 
should be compensated for the stress  and disappointment he experienced when he found 
out a few months later that he would not in fact be able to use the full amount  of his savings.
So I am minded  to say that Skipton should  pay compensation in the amount of £200 to 
reflect this trouble and upset.
data protection
Skipton have accepted that they sent a letter to Mr Ps solicitor by mistake.  Data protection 
breaches are best dealt  with by the ICO, although  this service can look at whether Skipton 
has acted fairly and reasonably in response  to what happened.
I can see that Skipton  have apologised for the mistake and offered £40 compensation. I 
completely understand Mr Ps concerns about his personal data and appreciate  why he 
might feel that this is not enough. But there is no evidence  of any financial  loss as a result of 
the mistake and no evidence that Mr Ps personal  data has been misused. And the letter 
was sent to Mr Ps solicitors who have a professional duty to act in his best interests. So the 
amount of compensation is for the trouble and upset  caused as a result  of the mistake and 
I consider £40 to be reasonable in the circumstances.
response to my provisional  findings
A representative for Mr P put forward a response to my provisional decision. In summary, 
three issues were addressed: 
1) Skipton did not provide clear information with regards to opening  an ISA with them  
where the funds  were  to be used to help to buy a home; 
2) Skiptons letter  was misleading  and unclear because  theyd been specifically asked 
for the amount of funds that would be available for Mr Ps home  purchase;  and 
3) the timeline of communication showed  that Mr P was only made aware  that hed not 
in fact receive the full balance of his ISA at a very late point in his house purchase.
Mr P asks for Skipton to pay compensation that reflects the difference  between the sum of 
money that they told him hed receive  and the funds they actually released to him.
Skipton said that they had no comments to make  on my provisional findings.
my further  findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I am grateful for the letter  from Mr Ps 
representative that helpfully sets out arguments on his behalf. But my view on this complaint  
remains unchanged. I have set out my reasons below. I do not refer to every point raised by 
the parties and have  focused on the points most  relevant to my reaching a final decision.
Ref: DRN05561605penalty charge  
I explained in my provisional decision  that I thought the Key Facts document  for the Lifetime 
ISA and the terms and conditions  of the account  are clear about  the account  opening  date 
for the purposes  of the 12 month  eligibility criteria  and when the penalty charge would apply. 
Ive not seen any evidence to make  me change  my findings on this. Mr P opened his 
Lifetime ISA in March  2018 and withdrew  funds before 12 months had passed. So I cant  
fairly say that Skipton  did anything wrong when they deducted  the penalty charge.
June 2018 letter
I agree  with Mr P that the June 2018 letter wasnt clear and that it gave the impression that 
he could use the full balance of his account  when this wasnt  the case. This is why Ive said 
that Skipton  should pay Mr P compensation. 
compensation 
But I dont agree that this means  Skipton should  pay Mr P the difference between  the funds 
Mr P thought  would  be released to him, and the amount that he actually  received.  The fact 
that Skipton  were  unclear  in their letter does not change  the fact that Mr P does not meet  the 
eligibility criteria  to be exempt from the penalty  charge.
Ive taken into account that Mr P says that he didnt know  he wouldnt receive the full 
balance of his ISA until a very late point in his house purchase. And I appreciate that this 
must have  been  stressful.
 
But when Mr P had contacted Skipton in April 2018  hed been told that the penalty charge 
would apply and hed also received confirmation  of this in their final response  letter.  When  
Mr Ps representative contacted Skipton  in May 2018, Skipton had not changed their mind 
on the point. 
The only thing that suggested he would have the full funds available  to him was the 
June 2018 letter which made no reference  to the eligibility criteria. Mr P had not himself  
directly received any correspondence  from Skipton,  or any other form of contact, to explain 
that theyd changed their mind on his complaint. So it would  have been  reasonable for Mr P 
to have made contact  with Skipton  to make sure that theyd decided that he did meet the 
eligibility criteria  and that thered be no problem in him being able to use the full balance  of 
his funds.
But in my view Skipton should pay Mr P some compensation for the stress and 
disappointment he experienced  because their June  2018  letter  did lack clarity. And I think 
£200 is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances, and in line with the level of awards this 
service makes.
data protection  
No further points have been made  on the data protection  issue. Skipton have already paid to 
Mr P £40 compensation which  I consider  to be reasonable and I have nothing further to add 
to my reasons in my provisional  decision on this.
Ref: DRN05561606my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I partially  uphold  this complaint. 
In full and final settlement  I order Skipton  Building Society to pay to Mr P £200 compensation 
for the trouble and upset  caused by the June 2018  letter, in addition  to the £40 that Skipton 
have already offered for the data protection issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Sonia Kalsi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0556160