K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that their contents  claim hasnt been  settled in full by Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited  after they made  a claim  under their home insurance policy 
following a fire. Theyve also complained about  the way their claims been handled.
background 
Mr and Mrs G made a claim to Admiral after a fire damaged their home in August 2017. 
Admiral appointed a loss adjuster to handle the claim and repaired the fire damage to the 
building.
The building work was completed and Mr and Mrs G moved  back  home. They  complained to 
Admiral about the following:
The way their artwork was being  stored;
They felt they were having  to manage a lot of the claim themselves;
Lack of communication from Admirals loss adjuster.
Admiral didnt agree that the artwork  hadnt  been  stored properly but said in order to resolve 
the issue it would pay for a specialist art storage unit that Mr and Mrs G had found. It noted 
that thered been some  delays and they hadnt received a settlement offer for their damaged  
contents almost five months  after loss lists were drawn up. It agreed  that thered been  poor 
communication on its part and offered Mr and Mrs G £300 compensation for this.
When Mr and Mrs G brought their claim to this service in March 2018, they said Admiral 
hadnt restored  their artwork which was only put into storage about three months  after the 
fire. They also said as a result of the delay in settling their contents  claim theyd had to 
replace some items  before receiving any payment from Admiral for them.  They complained  
that Admiral hadnt  dealt  with their smoke-damaged computer equipment.  Lastly  they werent  
happy with some of the building repairs.
The loss lists were  agreed and in May 2018 Admiral paid £23,939 to settle  part of the claim. 
It offered  £4,000  in respect of the artwork  and over £7,000 for the computer equipment  and 
some speakers.
Our investigator thought the settlement suggested  by Admiral was fair. But she suggested 
Admiral should pay a further £300  compensation for delays.  As Mr and Mrs G didnt agree, 
the matter has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to the artwork Admiral offered a cash settlement of £4,000.  That was in line with 
the claim settlement  terms in the policy and based  on the cost of restoring  the artwork,  
frames and photos. It said the quote it obtained isnt discounted, so Mr and Mrs G should  be 
able to get the repairs done by the same firm for the same amount it was quoted. 
Mr and Mrs G obtained  a quote of over £13,000 from their art restorer. So I can understand 
why they were concerned that Admirals  cash settlement might not be enough.
Ref: DRN03238142But the two companies who quoted for Admiral both inspected the artwork. Theyve only 
quoted for removing  smoke damage  and refer to pre-existing damage to some of these 
items. The quote Mr and Mrs G obtained was based  on photos of the items  and appears  to 
have included restoration of the pre-existing damage. I dont think  it would  be fair to require  
Admiral to repair any damage that was there  before the fire unless the smoke  damage 
couldnt otherwise  be repaired. 
If it turns out that any of smoke damage  to the artwork, photos and frames cant be 
successfully cleaned, then Id expect Admiral to reconsider its settlement. 
Admiral offered a cash settlement for the computer  and sound equipment based on what  it 
would have cost it to clean the smoke damage  from the equipment and replace a set of 
speakers. A large amount of computer equipment is included in the claim because  Mr G 
refurbishes this as a hobby.  Mr and Mrs G say it was all in working order  before the fire. 
Admiral disputes that. It says according to its expert some of the items  hadnt suffered any 
damage as a result of the fire but werent working  anyway  as they were missing key parts  
such as hard drives. Having seen  the detailed report of Admirals expert and the list detailing  
the large number  of missing parts and taking into account the fact that Mr Gs hobby was 
refurbishing them, on balance it seems  to me Mr and Mrs G are more  likely to be mistaken  
than Admirals agent. On that basis I think Admirals settlement offer was fair.
Admirals original calculation has since been adjusted. Thats  because  some of the 
equipment turned out to have been damaged in the course of Admirals investigations. Also 
an overpayment for the speakers came  to light. Amending  the figures to take out the 
cleaning cost for the damaged items and including their replacement  cost means that 
Admiral has overpaid this part of the claim.  So I wont  require Admiral  to pay any more in 
respect of these items.  But since its responsible  for the overpayment,  I dont think it should 
require Mr and Mrs G to pay this back. 
Admiral offered Mr and Mrs G £300 compensation for the delays it caused in the handling  of 
the claim and poor communication.  I agree  that this is a reasonable sum for what  happened 
up to that point. But thereve been  further delays since  then.  Theres also the trouble and 
upset caused  to Mr and Mrs G by the various  mistakes Admiral made in its calculations.  As 
such, I think Admiral should  pay Mr and Mrs G a further £300 compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar)  Limited  to pay a 
further £300 compensation for the trouble and upset  caused to Mr and Mrs G.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Ref: DRN03238143Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0323814