K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank  PLC (at the time C&G) mis-sold them the MPPI. 
The MPPI was taken out at the same  time as taking a further advance on their mortgage  
and the benefit was split 60/40 with Mr H being covered for the larger share.
Mr H says that all financial advice was always given by his IFA, and that he never spoke with 
anyone at Lloyds.  However  nothing on the paperwork  Ive seen relates  to the IFA he has 
mentioned, and Lloyds has taken responsibility for this complaint  so Ill refer to Lloyds in 
my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs H say that they had no knowledge whatsoever about  the MPPI   so they didnt 
know they had it. But I think that Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have  to take 
out the MPPI  and they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant 
remember this as it was so long ago. Ill explain why.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Hs MPPI application  this is separate  to their 
application for the further advance, and asks questions about their work  and how they would 
like the benefit  to be split. Mr and Mrs H have both signed this application. 
Lloyds recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check that the MPPI  was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example Mr B wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the MPPI cover  
and they seem to have  had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it could have been useful for them if something went  wrong.  It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said, but these points dont  change  my 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN04787572Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0478757