K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
In 1999 Mr and Mrs B arranged a mortgage together and at the same  time they took out PPI 
to cover their mortgage repayments if Mr B couldnt  work. 
Mr and Mrs B told us they felt as if the policy was required  in order to take the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B took out some extra borrowing on their mortgage account a few years later on 
 but they didn't take out any more PPI when they did that. So Im just concentrating in my 
decision on what happened  in 1999.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagree with the adjudicators  
opinion and theyve  asked for a review. So this complaint comes to me to make  a final 
decision. 
Lloyds Bank  merged with the business that sold PPI to Mr and Mrs B, and it has handled  
their complaint. So, Ill just refer to Lloyds in my decision from now on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
I think Lloyds probably did make Mr and Mrs B aware that PPI was optional and they chose 
to have it for Mr B. I can see that theres  a section on Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application 
that asks if they want to have PPI. This is ticked to include the cover.  There was a No 
option they couldve ticked instead if they hadnt wanted PPI which is left blank. So, I think 
Mr and Mrs B wouldve been aware  at the time that it was up to them  to say if they wanted to 
have PPI with their mortgage. Mr and Mrs B have both signed  the completed  application  at 
the end to confirm  that they agreed with what it says on the form. 
And Mr B also completed a separate application for PPI and indicated  he wanted to set the 
policy up to cover him. This all happened  a long time ago so its completely understandable 
that some  of these details  have now been forgotten. And I cant  be sure what was discussed 
between them and Lloyds  at the time. But, based on what  Ive seen, I find that Mr and Mrs B 
chose to have  PPI for Mr B, knowing they couldve  declined the cover  if they hadnt wanted 
it.
Lloyds says it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs B. If a business makes  a 
recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  
way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable . 
Ref: DRN03963532Only Mr B was eligible for the policy. Ive taken into account that he mentioned having no 
sick pay arrangements in place through work and no other way of making the monthly 
repayments. 
The policy wouldve covered  Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage repayments and paid out some extra  
money on top of this to help with other household bills. It wouldve paid out in addition  to any 
statutory sick pay for up to 12 months  per claim if Mr B was too sick to return to work. 
No job can be guaranteed  indefinitely.  PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months per 
claim if Mr B lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Repeat claims were possible under the policy so it gave Mr and Mrs B long term protection  
for their mortgage. 
I dont know how easy it wouldve been  for Mrs B to maintain the mortgage monthly 
repayments on her own for long if Mr B wasnt working and they didnt have PPI. Only Mr B 
was in paid work at the time. The mortgage was a big financial commitment.  Given  the 
problems that can happen when mortgage payments arent kept up to date, I can see why 
they couldve thought that the policy was useful  for them.  And it looks to me as if PPI was 
suitable for them given what I know about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time.  
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  There were  some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look 
as if Mr B was affected by any of the main  conditions  limiting the policys  benefits. So, I dont 
think having more  information about  things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected their 
decision to take it out.
I dont know if Mr and Mrs B knew how much PPI would cost them  when they applied for it. 
But they chose  to take out the policy when they didnt  have  to have it. So it seems  clear they 
wanted this type of cover. And the cost was mentioned in the policy  schedule  sent to them 
shortly after it was set up  along with information  about how to cancel  the policy if theyd 
changed their minds about  having it or decided they didnt want  to pay for it. It seems to 
have been affordable for them when they took it out. They  paid for the policy  each month so 
they couldve cancelled  it at any time at no extra cost.
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think 
Mr and Mrs B still wouldve decided to buy the policy for Mr B even if theyd been better 
informed as the policy gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think  
having better information wouldve put them off buying it.
This means  it doesnt look as if Mr and Mrs B have  lost out as a result of anything Lloyds did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN03963533my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0396353