K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about their home  insurer Fairmead Insurance  Limited.  They 
say it handled  poorly  a water leak claim they made to it which  caused  the claim to be 
delayed, causing  them to suffer distress as well incur a loss of income.
background
Mr and Mrs R were away from home on 4 March 2018 when their neighbour called and told 
them about  a leak at their home. They authorised their son to deal with Fairmead  and a 
claim was made.
A loss adjuster  was appointed and attended the property on 10 March  2018. But by 
16 March 2018  Mr and Mrs R had contacted  Fairmead and told it they were unhappy  that 
things didnt seem to be getting done  by the loss adjuster. Fairmead noted its file. And during 
a review in early April,  Fairmead noted the loss adjuster had delayed matters  during March. 
At this time Fairmead felt the claim was getting back on track and noted on 10 April that 
water had been removed from the cellar. A further  file note said the water in the cellar  was to 
be removed on 13 April 2018. Several  notes in May 2018 recorded  the property was nearly  
dry and strip-out work was nearly complete. A schedule  of work was completed  in late 
June 2018, but a number  of issues were found  with this before it could be approved.  The 
start date, initially predicted in April to be early June, became  the end of June, mid-July  and 
then 23 July 2018 (but the last was still said to not be guaranteed). 
Towards the middle of July a concern arose  about asbestos, and that the start date of 
23 July would have  to be pushed back again.  But work  did start around that time. In early 
August Mr R raised an issue with the bath suite, he felt the contractors had damaged  it. The 
loss adjuster wasnt entirely  persuaded this was the case  but felt the bath had always 
needed removing  and replacing as part of the works, but this hadnt been  factored in. The 
work schedule was amended to include this but work to reinstate the bathroom  only 
commenced when  other  decorative work  in the property was already being advanced.  
As the start date had kept being set back, so had the expected completion date. The lease 
on the rental property  Mr and Mrs R had found was due to end in early October. With the 
completion date falling back to 18 October, the loss adjuster agreed to extend the rental 
agreement until 25 October. Whilst the loss adjuster knew the completion deadline was tight, 
that the property  couldnt  be cleaned until the work was done  and that large necessary 
furniture items couldnt be replaced until then either, he told Mr and Mrs R that 7 days  grace 
was enough time for everything to happen. He said he wouldnt extend  the lease further. 
Mr and Mrs R moved  home but the work wasnt done  the bathroom was functional but not 
finished and there was dust everywhere. So much  that even after two professional  cleans 
more dust was still settling and Fairmead agreed to pay Mr and Mrs R to undertake  a further  
clean themselves.
Mr and Mrs R had been complaining to Fairmead from the outset of the claim. As well as 
being unhappy about delays Mr R said hed had to forego some work contracts because of 
needing to oversee the works. He said this had lost him several thousand  pounds. He 
provided confirmation from the parties that he should have done  work for. Mr and Mrs R said 
the drive was damaged and the lounge ceiling hadnt been  double boarded as it was before.
Ref: DRN06762872Following completion of the reinstatement works, Fairmead issued its final response.  It 
acknowledged its poor service and offered  £500  compensation for the upset caused.  It 
confirmed the driveway  had been  restored and offered  a settlement for double-boarding the 
ceiling. But Fairmead wasnt  minded  to compensate Mr R for his lost earnings. Mr and Mrs R 
were unhappy  and complained to us.
Our investigator felt that Fairmead had failed Mr and Mrs R and that £500 was insufficient  in 
the circumstances. She said it should pay a total of £1,000 compensation. But she felt that 
Fairmead wasnt responsible for the choice  Mr R had made to not work, so she didnt think it 
should have to reimburse his lost earnings. 
Fairmead indicated  it would agree to the findings.  Mr and Mrs R felt £1,000 compensation 
still didnt reflect the impact this had had on their lives. The complaint  was passed to me for 
a decision to be made. 
Mr and Mrs R then told us that they were  concerned  with the plastering  and joinery  work 
Fairmeads contractors had completed. They said they were starting to see cracks. Later 
they told us Fairmead  had agreed  to fix all of this and that would entail them moving  out of 
the house again, and all of the upset that went with that. Our investigator said we couldnt 
take that into account as part of this complaint. Mr and Mrs R felt it was important and said it 
would be unfair  if the fact of it wasnt considered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I know further work has now been  found to be necessary at the property, I cant take 
this fact into account here. I dont doubt  this is upsetting for Mr and Mrs R and I trust 
Fairmead will be considering this as part of its response to getting the work done. But if 
Mr and Mrs R remain unhappy theyll have to make a new complaint.  That is because this 
complaint only covers activity up until January 2019  when  Fairmeads  final response was 
issued. What happened and what Mr and Mrs R went  through  during that time cant have  
been influenced by activity and failures  that hadnt  yet occurred or come to light.
Turning to how Fairmead handled  this claim until the date of its final response, in summary  
I think it failed Mr and Mrs R. Fairmead was and is responsible for its agents;  the loss 
adjuster and contractors  employed to repair the property.  From  the outset there are 
indications on Fairmeads file that suggest the loss adjuster wasnt  performing as would be 
expected. Fairmeads  file notes suggested  it was going to look into this  but then weeks 
passed without  activity. The file also shows that the loss adjuster, in the main, wasnt  keyed 
up about what was going on and regarding Mr and Mrs Rs return home, Fairmead described 
the loss adjusters actions as wildly irresponsible.  
The contractors  which should have been controlled and managed  by the loss adjuster, 
caused delays  throughout. The scope of works was delayed; it later turned out to have been  
inaccurate regarding  the ceiling. It also didnt  include or factor  in replacing the bath which  the 
loss adjuster in August  well into the repair period   noted would need replacing. I see no 
good reason why this wasnt noted before. The contractors also acted negligently with 
placing waste on the driveway and mixing materials on it which  caused  damage.  Whilst the 
driveway and ceiling issues have been resolved  by Fairmead, I dont doubt they were  a 
further source of upset  and frustration for Mr and Mrs R.
Ref: DRN06762873The likely completion date kept changing  and it doesnt  surprise me that, to some  extent  
Mr and Mrs R lost faith in the whole process. That said, whilst I can understand Mr R 
wanting to attend his house and check the work   I cant  say it was a reasonable risk for him 
to take, given his condition  and the on-going work. Nor am I persuaded that it was so 
imperative that Mr R keep  watch on the work that he lost earnings by refusing or cancelling  
contracts. I realise Mr R may have felt in an untenable position  but Im not persuaded it 
would be fair to make Fairmead foot the bill for the choice he made to sacrifice income.
Whilst Im satisfied  that Fairmead isnt responsible for any ill effects Mr R suffered by 
attending the house regularly during  work, it was poor handling by the loss adjuster that 
caused Mr and Mrs R to move home  before the work was finished. Fairmead had accepted 
work needed to be done for Mr and Mrs R to return home  but its loss adjusters  poor 
handling of this meant they returned home  with work still to be done   and it was quite a 
while before the property  was adequately  cleaned.  
In my view, Fairmead does need  to pay more  compensation  than the £500  previously  
offered. Our investigator suggested £1,000.  Im aware that Mr and Mrs R feel this was 
insufficient given  the impact  this has had on their lives. I understand this has been difficult for 
them and, as explained above, Im satisfied Fairmead did fail them, but Im also satisfied that 
£1,000 is fair and reasonable  compensation in the circumstances here.  Its also in line with 
other awards  made  by this service  in similar circumstances.
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs R a total of 
£1,000 compensation (if £500  has already  been  paid then only the difference remaining will 
now need to be paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 June  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0676287