K821x#15complaint
Mrs J says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about eleven payday loans and a running account  (flex credit) facility that 
Quick Quid provided to Mrs J from April 2010  onwards. Mrs Js last loan was provided in 
August 2015.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Js complaint about payday loans three, four, ten and eleven and 
the flex credit facility.  So he thought that Mrs J shouldnt have been provided  with these 
loans. Quick Quid didnt  agree with our adjudicator. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs J 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Js complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans three, four and ten would more 
likely than not have  shown that:
Ref: DRN00156922the repayment required for these loans took up a significant proportion of Mrs Js 
monthly income. In these  circumstances,  there was a significant risk that Mrs J 
wouldnt have been able to repay this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mrs J, I also think 
that Quick Quid should  reasonably have seen that Mrs J was unlikely to have been able to 
make her loan repayments in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided the flex credit 
facility. I say this because:
when Mrs J was provided with the flex credit facility, she had owed Quick Quid 
money for a period  of nine months  (in this chain of lending). In my view, Mrs J owing 
Quick Quid money  for this period of time,  in these circumstances, was in itself a clear  
demonstration of Mrs Js inability  to settle her loans over the life of the credit 
agreement.  
in total, Mrs J was given loans for periods that cannot reasonably be described as 
short-term. And, in my view, Mrs J paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service  
an increasing debt to Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think that Mrs J lost out because Quick  Quid provided these loans because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Js indebtedness by allowing  her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of deferrals and the extended  period of time she owed Quick  Quid  money 
was likely to have  had negative  implications on Mrs Js ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept her in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mrs Js complaint about  payday  loans three, four, ten and eleven  and the 
flex credit facility and Quick Quid should put things  right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs J paid on payday loans three, four, ten and 
eleven and the flex credit facility;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mrs J owed Quick Quid  money  means that any information  still 
recorded about payday loan eleven and the flex credit facility  is adverse. So all 
entries about these  loans  should be removed from Mrs Js credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN00156923my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Js complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mrs J compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0015692