K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss C says FICL mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Miss C took out a store card in March  2002. PPI was added to her account at the same time.
I understand the policy cost £1.00 for each £100 Miss C owed on her store  card. I also 
understand it wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding  balance on the card each month  if      
Miss C couldnt work because shed had an accident, was unwell or lost her job.
The adjudicator  who looked at Miss Cs complaint didnt uphold  it. Miss C disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL needed to make  it clear to Miss C she had a choice about PPI and get her agreement  to 
it. FICL has given us a copy of Miss Cs store card application. Theres  a section  about  PPI 
that Miss C has signed to say she wanted it. This signature is in addition to Miss Cs signature 
applying for the store  card as a whole. If Miss C hadnt wanted PPI, she couldve left this 
section blank and I dont think it wouldve been  added to her account.  So I think  FICL made 
Miss C aware she had a choice about  buying  PPI, and she chose to take it at the time. 
Miss C applied for the card and the PPI by filling in an application form in a store.  So I dont 
think FICL made her a tailored recommendation to buy the PPI. This means it didnt have to 
check if the policy was right for Miss C. But it still needed to make  sure it gave Miss C 
enough information to make an informed choice about whether the policy  was right for her.
Its likely the information  FICL gave Miss C about  some parts  of the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been   particularly about its true cost and also the things it didnt cover, like 
unusual employment  arrangements  and known health problems. So I need to think about 
whether Miss C wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if shed been  given  
clearer information. On balance, I dont think she wouldve acted differently.
From what  Ive seen, I think Miss C was eligible for the PPI. And I cant see any significant 
exclusions or limiting terms that wouldve stopped her being  able to claim on it. 
Miss C says shed been employed in the same job for some years though I dont know what  
sick pay shed have  got. But in any case the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this and quite 
likely for longer than any sick pay Miss C got lasted. And Miss C says she didnt have 
anything else, like savings or other  insurance policies, to fall back on if things got difficult. I 
Ref: DRN00415462also havent seen  anything to make me think Miss C couldnt  afford  the cover. So overall I 
think the PPI gave Miss C useful  protection. 
Looking at everything Ive got, I dont think Miss C has lost out because of anything FICL 
may have  done  wrong, so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0041546