K820x#14Complaint
Miss V complains  that when she deposited £1,450 in cash in a branch, Nationwide Building 
Society only credited  her account with £950.
Background
Miss V says she went  into the Nationwide branch on 20 September  2018 with two 
envelopes. One contained £1,000 and the other  £450 and she wanted both deposited in her 
loyalty saver  account. She says the cashier  didnt open the envelopes  or count the cash in 
front of her; the cash was taken to a machine  to count. She says she wasnt asked how 
much she was paying in and wasnt given  a receipt. But, as she was leaving the branch, she 
checked her passbook and realised her account  had only been credited with £950.
She immediately returned  to the cashier.  Over  the next hour, the cashier  checked  the 
machine but could not find a discrepancy.  Miss V wasnt happy with the outcome  or the way 
she was treated so she complained.
Nationwide said there hadnt been an error  with the deposit and that all the branch financial 
records balanced that day. It felt the staff had done  their best to help her and it didnt uphold 
her complaint.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said there wasnt  
evidence to show there were any discrepancies for the machine or the branch on the day 
Miss V made her deposit. So he couldnt  conclude that Nationwide  had done anything  wrong.
Miss V didnt agree. She said, in summary,  that:
Nationwide  should pay her compensation for not having CCTV or other recording 
devices in place  to protect  its customers.
She had to prompt the cashier  to empty and check  the machine. And it wasnt emptied 
in front of her. Nationwide  has got other facts wrong.
Her sister witnessed her placing the money in the envelopes and can confirm  she put 
£450 in one and £1,000 in the other.
She received poor customer service  which  made her feel even worse.
The cashier should have asked  her how much she was depositing before she opened 
the envelopes.
She knows she took £1,450 into the branch  that day and shes been  a loyal customer  of 
Nationwide for many  years.
Ref: DRN07474202My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory, as some of it is here,  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
Miss V is very certain that when she handed over the two envelopes to the cashier on 
20 September, one contained £1,000  in cash and the other  contained £450.  I dont doubt  
this is what she thought. But, having considered all the evidence,  I dont find theres enough 
to conclude that Miss M gave the branch £1,450 on that day. Ill explain  why.
The cashier opened the envelopes and then took the cash to a banknote counting machine. 
The machine  counted  a total of £950. Nationwide says it asked Miss V if this was the correct  
amount and she confirmed it was. I cant be sure this is what happened  Nationwide  also 
said it had emptied the machine in front of Miss V when it hadnt,  so some of its evidence 
hasnt been accurate. But, in any event, it credited her account with £950 and she queried 
this when she saw it in her passbook.
The cashier emptied  the machine and checked  for a discrepancy. I would have expected 
there to be a £500 difference  if what Miss V has told us is right.  But there  was no difference. 
Ive also seen evidence  that the branch records  for the day were reconciled with no 
discrepancies  the actual amount of cash equalled  the net amount recorded in its systems 
that day. Again, I would have expected there to be a difference if Miss V had deposited the 
amount she says she did.
So, overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide didnt make a mistake in crediting  the money. I think 
its most  likely that whilst Miss V thought  she deposited £1,450, shes  mistaken and actually 
deposited £950. This is supported by the banks records.
I agree  with Miss V that there are a number of things  Nationwide  could have done to avoid  
this situation arising.  It could have asked Miss V how much was in the envelopes before they 
were opened  and it could have offered to count the cash  in front of her. But, even though  it 
didnt do this, it doesnt change my overall conclusion. I think  Miss V handed over £950 that 
day and that is how much was credited to her account.
There was no CCTV recording available. But, again,  this doesnt make  a difference  to my 
conclusion. In summary, Nationwide found  no cash error for that day and no unaccounted  for 
cash was found.  And, even though  Miss V says her sister witnessed her putting the cash  into 
the envelopes, I think they must have either both been mistaken  or some money was taken 
out before  the envelopes were handed  to the cashier.
I dont know exactly what was discussed when Miss V queried the amount deposited and 
when she had a meeting  at the branch about the discrepancy. Clearly she would have been 
upset and its disappointing if the member  of staff made her feel even worse.  But I can see 
Nationwide investigated  the way the complaint was handled and didnt think  the branch had 
handled the situation badly. It did apologise if the branch didnt meet  her expectations.  I think  
the member of staff was probably trying  not to raise  Miss Vs hopes, but this may have come 
across a little negatively.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss V, but for the reasons Ive explained I cant  uphold  her complaint. 
Ref: DRN07474203My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0747420