K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained about Ariella Limited. He isnt happy about  the way it dealt with his 
commercial motor trade insurance  policy.
background
Mr G took out insurance through Ariella. It asked  him for various  pieces of information  to 
validate his policy which Mr G provided.  Ariella gave him seven days  to provide this 
information. Mr G said that he provided all the relevant information on the seventh  day. But 
as it was close to the end of the working day Ariella still cancelled  his policy.  This was 
because it couldnt  process the information  until the following day.
As Mr G needed insurance, he agreed  to take out a further policy through Ariella that was 
more expensive. But he said he had the same problem again. Ariella cancelled his second  
policy as well. Although  Mr G provided  the information in time Ariella was closed over the 
Easter period,  so again it couldnt  process  the information. Mr G wasnt  happy about all of 
this and complained to Ariella. But it didnt  respond, so Mr G complained  to this service as 
well.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G and upheld his complaint. She asked Ariella for 
its business file and to respond to this service.  And as it didnt respond she looked at the 
available evidence, that was provided by Mr G, and upheld his complaint. She asked  Ariella 
to refund any outstanding balance; ensure any cancellation markers are removed from 
Mr Gs records;  and to pay £150 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused.
As Ariella still didnt respond the matter has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
It is disappointing Ariella hasnt responded to this service or to Mr G. As it hasnt, I have to 
consider the evidence presented solely by Mr G. He has provided various emails  and screen 
shots outlining  some of the information he provided.  He also provided  details showing that 
he chased and complained to Ariella about  all of this bit it didnt respond.  
During one of the few occasions  Ariella communicated with this service it said Mr G hadnt  
complained to it about this matter. But, given the evidence  Mr G provided to this service, he 
clearly had. And this service requested a copy of its business file on five occasions across  a 
five-month period and yet there was no response. So, we outlined  the view that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Yet, Ariella failed to respond to the view and to further letters 
and emails explaining that the complaint would be referred to me for a final decision.
Given all of this Im satisfied the matter  should  be upheld. The only evidence  available has 
been provided by Mr G. Having considered this and his testimony  Im satisfied Mr G made  
reasonable attempts to provide all the information  and he did so within  its defined  
timescales. It shouldve considered the information  he provided as soon as practicable. And 
have stopped the cancellation process as Mr G was clearly trying  to provide everything that 
was required.
Ref: DRN06550862So the fair and reasonable  thing  to do, in the particular circumstances of this case  is for 
Ariella to waive any outstanding balance owed. It should pay any debts Mr G has incurred in 
relation to this with the credit provider.  And ensure this hasnt had any adverse effect  on 
Mr G. It is only fair that Mr G pays for his time on cover on a pro-rata  basis, but he shouldnt 
have to pay any charges  for the cancellation of the policy.  Ariella  should ensure  all 
cancellation references are removed from any internal and external databases explaining  to 
the insurer that any error here was Ariellas. And it should pay Mr G £150  compensation for 
the stress  and inconvenience caused.  It mustve  been stressful for Mr G to have to deal with 
all of this and have  the credit  provider chase him for money.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Ariella Limited  
to pay/ waive any outstanding balance  owed and finalise any outstanding debt with the credit 
provider. It should  remove any internal  or external cancellation markers  and ask the insurer 
to do the same. And it should pay Mr G £150  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0655086