K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about excess mileage  charges  that Volkswagen  Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited has asked her to pay.
Mrs W is represented in this complaint by her husband but for ease of reading  I only refer to 
Mrs W in this complaint.
background
In September  2013 Mrs W entered into a hire purchase agreement  with VWFS on behalf  of 
her business. As part of the agreement she agreed  to an annual  mileage allowance. She 
also agreed that if she went above this mileage allowance  she would pay the excess 
mileage charges which were set out in the agreement.
Mrs W told us her intention had been to keep the car at the end of the hire period. However,  
when the hire part of the agreement came to an end and she had the option to buy the car 
she didnt. Instead  she handed it back to VWFS  as she was entitled to do. But she indicated  
that she had only done this because  the car had a lower residual value than she anticipated 
it would  have at the start of the agreement.  
Further, Mrs W suggested that this lower residual value was due to the car having  a device 
in it that impacts on Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) emissions during test conditions. She also 
suggested that if she had kept the car as she had initially planned, she would not have had 
to pay the excess  mileage charges. Therefore, it followed that she should  not have to pay 
them now.
In short,  VWFS responded  to say, it was entitled to rely on the agreement and ask Mrs W to 
pay the excess mileage  charges. It didnt agree that the residual value of the car had been 
diminished due to the presence of the device in the car. 
Dissatisfied with this response Mrs W complained to us.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ws complaint. He didnt recommend upholding it.
VWFS accepted this recommendation, Mrs W did not. In summary, Mrs W reiterated her 
previous stance. Moreover,  she suggested that any information provided  by VWFS to 
support its position  ought to be considered critically by this service. She mentioned  a recent  
court case  in the UK that turned in part, on the nature  of the device. She also provided 
information which she thought supported her claim that the car had lost value due to the 
device. Mrs W also indicated that the quality of the car was not satisfactory and had been  
misrepresented to her.
Mrs W asked  that an ombudsman  review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have finished  my review  of this complaint. I dont intend upholding it. Please let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN04313442First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
There is no doubt that the parties  entered freely  into the hire purchase agreement. The 
agreement provides that if Mrs W goes over the agreed mileage limit then she will have  to 
pay for this in line with the excess mileage provisions in the agreement. Mrs W did go over 
the mileage allowance. In the circumstances, as a starting point, I see no reason why VWFS 
ought not to be able to rely on the terms of the agreement that both parties  accepted and 
agreed to be bound by.
I cant see that Mrs W has made any loss at all. I dont agree that Mrs W has been  treated 
unfairly because  of anything that VWFS is responsible for in relation to the excess  mileage. I 
say this because, Mrs Ws choice here was always either to stay within  the annual mileage 
provisions or exceed them and pay for the mileage or buy a car at the end of the agreement. 
But if Mrs W had chosen to buy the car, as was her plan, then she would have had a car that 
might have been worth less because it had more miles on the clock than it would have done 
if it had kept to the mileage allowance. In that sense she was always  going  to have to pay for 
the miles she drove. I dont see that as a loss. 
Further, the only reason she is being  charged for excess mileage  is because  she did excess 
miles. This has nothing  to do with the device  that was in the car. Regardless of the device in 
the car, she was always going to be in this situation.  In other words, I cant  see any 
connection between  Mrs W being  asked to pay for the excess  mileage and the presence  of 
the device in the car. 
In addition, Mrs W is not saying she would never  have entered  into the agreement  if she had 
known about the presence of the device. Neither is she saying the car was misrepresented 
to her because of the presence of the device that she did not know about.  Rather  she is 
saying that it is unfair that she is being charged excess  mileage  because  she decided  to 
decline the option to buy the car at the end of the agreement. But I have already explained 
why I think it is fair and reasonable for VWFS to charge it for the excess  mileage.
Even, if I accepted Mrs Ws stance, which I dont, that she chose not to buy the car because  
its value had tumbled,  so that is the only reason  she had to pay excess  mileage charges. I 
would not be able to fairly  and reasonably uphold this complaint. That is because she has 
not demonstrated the car lost value.  Mrs W tells us, she tested the waters in the last two 
months of the contract by offering the car for sale and she only got offers of about £2,500 to 
£3,000 less than what she calls the contract  value. She also tells us dealers were  offering 
less too citing  the NOx device  issue. But she has not shown us evidence  of these offers or 
given us any information from these dealers to support  this. Neither has she provided 
Ref: DRN04313443historical information from the trade  publications which showed this precipitous  fall in price  
she talks about  did happen and was due to the device  and related  to this particular car.
Im aware that Mrs W has sent in information  about  the fall in sales  of diesel cars in general.  
For example. the quote she sent in from an article in a specialist car magazine  highlights a 
number of factors which have led to this such as environmental concerns about diesel cars 
as a class. The article does also mention the publicity surrounding the device as a factor that 
has made diesel cars less popular. But what I am looking at is what  has happened to the 
residual price of this individual car and why and as I mentioned above Mrs W has not 
provided any persuasive information  about  this.
Mrs W has also raised new points about  misrepresentation  and the quality of the car when it 
was supplied to her. These are new points  that were  not originally raised by Mrs W when 
she made this complaint.  Therefore,  I have no power to consider those new points in this 
decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 November  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0431344