K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains because PSA Finance UK Limited  asked him to pay for repairs to its car 
when his contract came to an end.
Mr C also complains that PSA has treated him in an inappropriate way when trying to 
recover the money from him.
background
Mr C hired a new car from PSA. When their contract  came  to an end it sent an agent to 
examine the car for damage.  The agreement between Mr C and PSA provided that it would 
only charge him for damage to its car that went beyond wear  and tear. So, the agents  role 
was to do a report  to highlight any damage  and to come to a conclusion about  whether it 
went beyond this threshold.  
The agent  found some  damage  which PSA wanted to charge for. Mr C didnt agree to this, 
on the basis that, he thought the damage  was no more than wear and tear. 
Further, Mr C suggested that PSA gave him inconsistent information about what  it would do 
if he did not pay it on time. In addition,  he also told us he felt PSA tried to put him under 
pressure to pay up. 
Eventually PSA agreed to waive one of the charges. It said it wouldnt ask him to pay for a 
chip on the windscreen. Mr C indicated this didnt go far enough from his point of view.  It 
needed to waive all the charges and explain why it had behaved in an inappropriate  manner 
towards him. Mr C explained  that because of the type of job he does having a default debt 
could have a negative impact on his career. This meant he found what  PSA was doing  all 
the more stressful.
PSA thought  it had done nothing wrong.  It said the report from its agent showed  the 
damage. This damage  was more than wear and tear. Its agreement  with Mr C allows  it to 
charge him for this. That is what it had done. It followed it wasnt  going to change  its mind.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr C came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint. He didnt recommend upholding it. In short,  he 
thought the damage went beyond wear and tear. He saw that the agreement  allowed PSA to 
charge for this. PSA had in part, relied  on industry guidance from the BVRLA. Our 
investigator thought  this was appropriate.  For all of these reasons, he didnt think he had any 
proper basis to tell PSA it couldnt charge Mr C.
PSA accepted our investigators  recommendation, Mr C didnt. In summary, he commented  
on each separate  repair  he was being  asked to pay for. Specifically,  he suggested he 
shouldnt have been charged for the damage to the windscreen in the first place. Similarly, 
he also suggested PSA hadnt shown that the scratch to the central  post was severe enough 
to merit charging him for it. He told us again  that PSA couldnt fairly charge him for the scuff  
damage to the alloy wheel because  this type of damage wasnt  covered in their contract. 
Rather, PSA says it is entitled to charge  for this damage because that is what the industry 
guidelines say. But he neither knew about these guidelines at the time he contracted  nor 
accepted them. He indicated it was unfair to ask him to meet a standard that he wasnt  
aware of. 
Ref: DRN06397042In any event he questioned why PSA encouraged him to do any repairs  the car needed 
before returning  it. But then did not tell him about the BVRLA  guidelines which had different  
requirements from the contract. From  his perspective this meant  he had had no fair 
opportunity to do the repairs  himself and avoid the charges. 
Moreover, he thought  he had kept the car to the standard that he knew about, that is the 
standard set out in the contract. So PSA had no basis  to bill him for anything.
For all of these reasons, Mr C suggested PSA could only fairly assess  the damage to the car 
by reference solely to the contract and nothing  else,  including the BVRLA guidelines.  And if it 
did that it couldnt charge him anything.
As Mr C remained unhappy with our investigators  recommendation  the complaint was sent 
to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think PSA has to 
take any further action.  Please let me explain why I have come to this decision.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
where Mr C and PSA have common ground
Mr C and PSA agree  that under the terms of the agreement they both freely entered  into 
PSA can ask Mr C to pay for damage  to the car in certain circumstances.
One of these circumstances is where  that damage  amounts to more than wear  and tear. 
However, they dont  agree whether the damage  to the car is wear and tear or something 
more than this. 
Plus Mr C rejects  PSAs reliance on the industry  guidance. The crux of this complaint is 
whether PSA is acting fairly in applying these charges,  so Ive looked at that.
the damage to the windscreen
Ref: DRN06397043I realise that Mr C has commented about the windscreen damage throughout his complaint 
and objected to the charge for this. He clearly  still has strong feelings this point.  But PSA is 
no longer charging  him for this damage. That means, I dont need to make a finding  about it. 
But I will say this, if PSA had not waived this charge I would  not have asked it to do so, as I 
wouldve found that the charge was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.  
the damage to the central post
During the course of this complaint a lot has been  said about the exact nature of the damage 
to the central  post. I think there is nothing to be gained in going over all of this again.  In 
short, Ive looked  at what the agreement  says about this. I am satisfied the damage does go 
beyond the threshold for wear and tear as set out in the agreement, that being  so, I think  it is 
fair and reasonable that PSA be allowed to charge for this damage.
the scuff damage  to the alloy wheel
Mr C objects to being  charged for the scuff  damage to the alloy wheel. Not because he says 
it is not there. But because he thinks this is wear  and tear. Also he suggests,  this damage is 
not covered by the contract. 
He adds that it is not fair for PSA to spring  the BVRLA guidelines on him out of the blue. And 
even if he did accept  this was ok, which he doesnt, since  he did not know  about the 
standards in the BVRLA guidelines he lost the chance to repair the car to the standard 
required by them before he returned it. He also indicates that his complaint ought to be 
decided in strict accordance with the law.
I dont agree that the damage  is not covered by the contract. I think  the provisions about 
scratches to bright metal and scratches  in prominent  positions  may well cover the damage.
Even if I accepted Mr Cs position that the scuff damage is not covered by the relevant 
definitions in the contract, which I do not, Id still say it was fair and reasonable for PSA to 
charge him for it. Ill explain why.
I do see Mr Cs point about not being aware  of the guidelines. That said, given that the point 
here is whether  or not this particular damage is wear or tear, I dont see why it is 
unreasonable to rely on industry  guidance as an impartial  yardstick.  And when I look at that 
guidance Im satisfied that the damage is covered  by that guidance and it is chargeable. 
Mr C suggests in all other  respects he has kept the car to the standard required by the 
contract. But I think that isnt correct. He is being charged for the damage to the central  post 
precisely because  he didnt do this.
Mr C tells us he missed  his chance to sort out the scuff damage before  he handed back  the 
car because  he didnt know about the relevant provisions in the guidance.  But I think if it was 
Mr Cs intention to do all necessary repairs before  handing  back  the car, then he would have 
repaired the damage to the central post,  which he did know  about. He didnt do this repair.  
This suggests to me he would not have repaired the scuff damage either.
Ive looked at what PSA is intending to charge  Mr C to put things right.  It does not seem to 
me that the charge for this work is so disproportionate that it would be unfair to let it stand.
Ref: DRN06397044In summary,  for all of these reasons I think I have no fair and reasonable basis  to say PSA 
must waive any of the charges.
Mr C tells us he thinks his complaint would succeed in he brought it to court.  My role as an 
ombudsman is to consider the individual complaint and decide whether something  has gone 
wrong. But a court  may take a different view of the situation. Should Mr C not accept  my final 
decision, then any rights he may have to take action in the courts  against PSA are 
unaffected and he will be free to pursue his arguments in any court action that may arise, if 
he so wishes.
was PSAs  behaviour inappropriate?
Mr C complains about the correspondence he has had from PSA.  He tells us it caused  him 
to spend hours on the phone and upset him. I took look at it. 
Some of the language in PSAs  letters  is legalistic as you might expect in these 
circumstances. But I dont  think the language, content or tone tipped over into being 
inappropriate. 
One of things Mr C highlighted is that on at least one occasion PSA said one thing but did 
something else. In particular he suggests it gave  him inconsistent information  about what  it 
would do if he did not pay it. He tells us about one letter  when he was told he had seven 
days to pay. But then he spoke to PSA or its agent and it told him it would not be taking 
further action  in the next seven days. 
But I dont think it is fair to look at one letter  in isolation. He had other  letters explaining what 
he was being  charged for and why and inviting him to talk to PSA or its agents. Some of the 
letters explained that PSA had a legal obligation  to send out some of the correspondence.
We would  expect a business to comply  with its legal obligations. We would also expect  a 
business to show  flexibility  and forbearance  where appropriate, and not necessarily strictly 
enforce its legal rights, which is what appears to have happened here.
I appreciate Mr C wanted to know what PSAs position was and if it was going  to escalate 
matters. After he spoke to PSA or its agent  after receiving the letter  giving him seven days  to 
pay he knew what he needed  to do in order to get PSA to put its debt recovery action on 
hold. However, I think it is fair to note that in these circumstances PSA was not obliged to 
stop pursuing him for the debt.
In all the circumstances, I cannot  see why the letters he got would reasonably  have caused 
him to spend  the hours on the phone he tells us about. Neither can I see why the letters 
might reasonably have  distressed him or put him under undue  pressure to settle.
I think it would be useful  here to give some  details about our service.  We arent  a regulator. 
We have no power to punish  or fine a business that is not our role. 
That said,  I can look at the impact of PSAs behaviour on Mr C. As I have mentioned above 
whilst Mr C has commented on PSAs actions here, nothing  Ive seen makes me think  the 
impact on him was such that it would be fair and reasonable to make  PSA compensate him 
for this.
Ref: DRN06397045my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0639704