K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
I attach my provisional decision of 30 January 2020, which forms part of this final decision.  In 
it I set out the background to and circumstances of this complaint and explained  why I didnt 
think either PPI policy had been  mis-sold.  But I invited Mr M and Santander to send me any 
more information  or comments  they wanted  me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Santander hasnt  commented on that provisional  decision. Mr M hasnt sent me any further 
evidence to consider,  but hes made  a number of points about  my provisional  decision and 
Ive addressed the main ones below. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
The main  points Mr M has made  in response to the provisional decision can be summarised 
as follows:
-That decision relied on a number of assumptions  and contained  factual errors
-His recollection of the key points of the sales process is clear
-He wouldnt have  taken out the PPI if hed been told that voluntary redundancy 
wasnt covered, or if the overlap with his employee benefits  had been explained
-The decision didnt reflect the extent  of the duties of a seller  in an advised sale. 
Ive thought carefully about what hes said and Ill deal with each of the points briefly in turn.
Its inevitable that where  most of the paperwork from a sale is no longer available  and the 
parties present  very different versions  of events, I have to make  some assumptions in 
deciding what I think is most likely  to have happened. And I acknowledged  that Id done so. 
Mr M disagrees with some of the assertions I made and conclusions  I reached, but he hasnt 
identified any specific errors of fact affecting  the reasoning in my provisional decision.
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr M has given us his best recollection of what happened. And 
Ive taken into account everything hes told us. But hes having to recall  events from well 
over 20 years ago and I dont think it would  be reasonable to expect that anyone will 
accurately remember all the details of a sale after such  a long time.
Santander says that as part of its normal sales process, Mr M wouldve been  given details  of 
the main features and exclusions of the PPI, both orally and in writing. And that he wouldve 
been asked questions to find out about  his circumstances and needs, in order to check the 
PPI would be suitable for him. Mr M says this didnt happen. There are no records  from the 
time now to show me what  took place including what, if anything was discussed about his 
employment arrangements and benefits, or the policy  terms. But I explained in my 
provisional decision why I thought the PPI was suitable for Mr M and couldve been useful 
Ref: DRN09362332for him, although  it didnt cover voluntary unemployment. And I set out why I didnt think it 
was unreasonable of Santander to recommend it to him.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I realise Mr M has put considerable effort  into his 
complaint and doesnt agree with my conclusions. And after so many years I dont have very 
much clear  information from the time on which to base my decision. But Ive looked at all the 
evidence I do have,  to decide what in my view is most  likely  to have happened.  Having done  
that, the outcome and my reasoning are as set out above and in my provisional decision. 
And on balance  I dont think I can fairly say that either PPI policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
 
Chris Langford 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09362333                                          copy of provisional decision 
complaint
Mr M says Santander  UK Plc mis-sold him two payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policies.
background
In 1992 and 1997 Santander, trading as Abbey National, sold Mr M monthly premium PPI policies. 
They would pay benefits if he was off work ill or injured, or lost his job.
Mr M says these policies were intended to protect borrowing which Santander also provided.
And hes sent us a copy of a quotation for a potential Santander mortgage,  from late in 1991.
But Santander  hasnt  been  able to find any details of a mortgage in Mr Ms name. So Ive not
dealt in this decision  with the question of commission  on the PPI sales.
Mr M complains that the PPI policies  were  mis-sold. Among other things, he feels  he didnt
really need PPI and says he only took the policies out because  Santander strongly  recommended 
them. He says too that their terms werent  properly  explained  to him.
Our adjudicator didnt think his complaint should be upheld, for either sale.  But Mr M doesnt
agree, so the complaint  has come to me to decide.
Mr M has also expressed concerns about how Santander has dealt with his mis-sale
complaint. But I understand hes pursuing  that issue with Santander separately, and it
doesnt form part of this decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments, to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mr Ms case.
Having done that, Im not currently intending to uphold  the complaint, for either  sale. Ill explain why.
I dont have much information about how the PPI was sold, except that it probably  took place
face to face in a Santander branch. Its not even clear that there were two separate sales,
but Santander thinks there were  and Ive proceeded on that assumption. But unsurprisingly
after so many  years,  there  are no notes from the time available to show me what, if anything
was discussed about PPI, nor have I seen any completed documentation from the sales.
So I have to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on what  Mr M has
been able to remember and what Santander has told us about its usual sales process at the
time, as well as the limited  paperwork that Ive been  given.
was Mr M given a fair choice?
Santander says that as part of its normal sales procedure  its adviser  wouldve made  Mr M
aware that the PPI was optional. Its possible the advisers  didnt follow the usual process  on
these two occasions.  But Ive not seen anything which shows me clearly that this happened.
That means I think its likely Mr M willve completed an application  form for PPI, separately
from his mortgage application. So he wouldve known it was a separate product. The 1991
mortgage quotation recommended  the optional  PPI, so he wouldve  known it wasnt
compulsory. And Ive seen the welcome letters  which  were sent to Mr M after both sales,
Ref: DRN09362334thanking him for taking out the PPI and giving him more details, including about how to
cancel the cover.
But Mr M isnt anyway  disputing that he knew he had a choice and agreed to have the PPI.
Rather, he says he only did so because he was relying on a recommendation from
Santander. And he says he was given the implicit impression that his request for borrowing
would be looked on more  favourably if he agreed to have PPI.
Ive considered what Mr M has said. I cant be sure exactly what took place. Mr M is trying to
recall events from well over twenty years ago, and memories inevitably fade over time.
Santander accepts that it recommended the PPI to him, so I think  it probably pointed out its
benefits and encouraged him to consider having it. But in my view, Ive not been shown
clearly that Santander did or said anything specific to make him believe he had to have it or
put unfair pressure on him to buy it.
So overall, I currently  think  its likely Mr M was given a fair choice and chose to have PPI.
was Mr M given good enough advice  and information?
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr M. This meant it had to check  it would be suitable  for
him. I dont know what was said about PPI in the discussions  or what  questions,  if any, Mr M
was asked  about his circumstances,  means and needs. Mr M says there was little or no such
discussion and he wasnt asked about  his employee benefits. And that might be right.
But based on what Ive been  told about his situation at the time of each sale,  I dont think the
policies were  unsuitable for him. Mr M wouldve been able to benefit  from all the cover they
provided and, as I explain below, to my mind he couldve found that cover helpful.
Santander also had to give Mr M good enough  information  about  the cost,  benefits and main
features of the PPI, so he could fairly  decide whether or not to take it out.
Santander says Mr M wouldve been given  written details of the PPI and also talked through
its main features. That mightve happened. Its not however clear exactly what Mr M had
read or been told about the PPI before he agreed to have it. Its possible the information hed
been given by then wasnt as clear or full as it shouldve been. Mr M feels that it wasnt  he
says the PPI was glossed  over.
But on balance,  in my view its unlikely that having better information wouldve changed  his
decision. I think  Mr M would probably still have taken out the PPI.
Thats because from what I know about his circumstances at the time, and looking at the
terms of the policies, Mr M was eligible for them. I dont think  he wouldve been affected by
any of the main things they didnt cover.  I think  the PPI couldve proved  useful for him. And
although hes said that the premiums he paid couldve been  put to better use, Ive not been
told anything to show  the PPI was unaffordable for him.
Mr M feels that because of his good employee  benefits he didnt really  need PPI. Hes told
us that at the time of the sales he wouldve been entitled to full sick pay from his work for six
months, then half pay for another six. But the PPI payments couldve lasted  for up to 36
months at a time (24 months under  the later policy), if he was unable to work owing  to illness
or injury  a lot longer than his sick pay entitlement. And they wouldve been paid on top of
his sick pay. Hes pointed out that his employer could at its discretion continue paying  some
sick pay for longer, or even pension off an employee. But that wasnt something he was
necessarily entitled to. I think the PPI offered him more reliable long-term  protection.
The PPI would also have  paid out for up to 12 months at a time if hed lost his job. Mr M tells
us he wouldve got a generous redundancy payment,  but the PPI wouldve  paid out on top of
Ref: DRN09362335that, at what  wouldve likely been  a difficult time for him. Mr M says his employer had a
policy of not making compulsory  redundancies, but from what Ive seen and been told so far,
although when he took out the PPI he mayve felt it was unlikely hed be made  compulsorily
redundant, this wasnt something that was contractually guaranteed.
Mr M has complained that Santander  didnt  make it clear enough to him that the PPI
wouldnt pay out if he took voluntary redundancy. He says he wouldnt have wanted  the PPI
if hed realised that, as he wouldve been offered good redundancy terms.  Ive carefully
considered what hes said. As Ive emphasised,  I dont know what information he got about
the PPI, during discussions or on paper. But insurance such as PPI is intended to deal with
unforeseen events, not a situation where  someone agrees to leave their job. I dont think
Santander could reasonably have been expected to draw his attention  more particularly to
this point. And in any event,  as Ive said, I dont think he couldve been  certain  he wouldnt
be made compulsorily redundant, so the PPI provided  him with valuable peace of mind.
Hes told us he had some limited savings, but the PPI wouldve enabled him to keep these
intact for the future, or use them for other purposes. Hes also mentioned having  personal
accident insurance. But from what Ive seen  about  this cover, it wasnt the same as the PPI
and didnt simply  duplicate it. Hes also suggested  his wife mightve  been able to resume
work to make  up for the shortfall  in income if he wasnt earning, but having  PPI couldve
avoided that being necessary. So I dont  think these things  or his employee benefits made
the PPI unsuitable for Mr M, or that Santanders recommendations were unreasonable.
In reaching my provisional views Ive also taken into account that the benefit  under each
policy was well over £500 a month.  Its likely  Mr M was borrowing quite a large amount  for
potentially a long time, secured on his home. So the effect of not keeping up with the
repayments couldve been serious for him. The PPI was paid for monthly, so it didnt add to
his borrowing or attract interest. And he could  cancel it at any time, without further cost,  if his
situation changed or he decided he no longer wanted it.
Overall, Ive thought carefully about everything Mr M has told and sent us. I know he feels
strongly and has put a lot of time and effort into his complaint. I appreciate that hell be
disappointed with my current  views. And its difficult to decide a case like this, where the
available information  about how the PPI was sold is very limited. But weighing up all the
information Ive got at present, on balance I dont think I can fairly and reasonably say it was
mis-sold, either  in 1992 or in 1997.
my provisional  decision
Based on what Ive read and been told up to now, Im not intending to uphold  this complaint.
But I invite Mr M and Santander to send me, by the date Ive said,  any more information or
comments theyd like me to consider before I give my final decision.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0936233