K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about how Cabot Credit  Management Group Limited  dealt with them  
following their request about  their account  and about  how information was recorded on 
Mrs Ps credit  file.
background
Mr P says he asked Cabot for information about the account and says he wasnt told that 
Cabot had made a decision not to ask him and his wife to repay  a debt. He says he offered 
an amount to repay the debt that wasnt required and was given misleading information and 
was promised a call back that he didnt receive. Mr and Mrs P also complain about how 
Cabot has reported  the state of the account  to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
Cabot says it issued  court proceedings against Mr and Mrs P but made a decision in 
May 2018 to close the account.  It accepts  it didnt tell Mr and Mrs P that and also accepts it 
didnt call Mr P back as agreed. Cabot says its now arranged for the account  to be closed 
and says its updated the CRAs. 
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to us and our investigator thought Cabot had acted 
fairly by updating the CRAs and by not perusing  the original debt. But the investigator 
thought Mr and Mrs P had received confusing information from Cabot  and hadnt  received 
the promised call back and so recommended it pay them £100 compensation.
Mr and Mrs P dont  accept that view and say £100  compensation isnt enough to deter Cabot 
from treating people in this way. They say Cabot was trying to ask them  to pay money 
towards the debt when  it had decided not to pursue them for it.
Cabot also doesnt  accept the investigators  view. It says it agreed not to ask Mr and Mrs P 
for money  it owed them and that is effectively more  than enough compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons.
I accept Cabot has acted  fairly by agreeing  not to pursue  the money that I think 
Mr and Mrs P owed  it. I also think Cabot has acted fairly by updating the CRAs with the 
correct information.  And having listened to the calls between  Cabot  and Mr P I dont think 
Cabot tried to mislead Mr P but I think its advisor was trying  to find out what  had happened 
and help Mr P. So I dont think Cabot was trying  to persuade Mr P during the call to pay 
money towards a debt it knew it wasnt perusing but that its advisor didnt appreciate what 
had taken place  and the decisions  that had been made.
There is no dispute here that Cabot didnt tell Mr and Mrs P what the correct  position was 
with the account and I think it also gave  Mr P misleading information during  the calls and 
didnt call Mr P back as promised. I have no doubt  that caused Mr and Mrs P frustration  and 
inconvenience in having to ask Cabot again what was going on. So I think Cabot should pay 
£100 compensation to Mr and Mrs P. I think that compensation fairly reflects the impact that 
had upon Mr and Mrs P and the length  of time it took for them  to find out the correct position.
Ref: DRN06459932I appreciate that Cabot  says that by not perusing  the debt, then that is effectively 
compensation. But I dont think that is a fair approach. I say that as I can see that Cabot 
made the decision not to pursue the debt due to other reasons and made that decision 
before the call Mr P made to it in August  2018  and before  the promised call back. So I dont  
think those decisions were linked  and just because Mr and Mrs P benefited  from Cabots 
decision doesnt mean they were  not entitled to expect a reasonable level of service from it.
Overall whilst I accept  Cabot has acted  fairly  in respect of some  parts  of this complaint, I find 
that it should pay compensation in respect  of the misleading information and lack of a 
promised call back. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P will no doubt remain  unhappy  with my 
view. But I should  explain to them that we are not the regulator of Cabot and its not our role 
to punish it or to order compensation  that would deter future problems. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Cabot Credit  Management  
Group Limited to pay Mr and Mrs P £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0645993