K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains that Newcastle Building  Society didnt transfer his savings and he received 
less interest as a result.
background 
In September  2017, Newcastle Building Society wrote to tell Mr J his fixed rate bond 
investment would mature on 31 October and explained what  he could do with his money. 
The letter said that if instructions werent received from Mr J before the maturity date, his 
money would  automatically be transferred to a Maturity  Plus account with a lower interest 
rate than a fixed rate bond.
Mr J says he sent back his instructions to transfer  his money  into a new fixed  rate bond 
before the deadline. He didnt hear anything else from Newcastle Building  Society  and says 
he thought his new fixed rate bond  had been  set up. But Mr J went into a 
Newcastle Building  Society branch in September 2018 and discovered his money  had been 
transferred into a Maturity  Plus account instead because  Newcastle  Building  Society  had no 
record of receiving his instructions. 
Mr J complained to Newcastle Building  Society  for not processing  his instructions, because 
hed missed out on the fixed  rate bonds  higher interest rate. He also complained  that he 
hadnt received  any paperwork from Newcastle Building Society when his account was 
moved into the lower  interest rate account. Mr J says that if hed received this, or his annual  
interest summary, hed have realised the problem  sooner. Hes also unhappy because 
Newcastle Building  Society wrote  to him in 2017  discussing its promise to keep customers 
up to date with their savings account   and he thinks its broken its promise.
Newcastle Building  Society didnt  uphold Mr Js complaint because it said itd never received 
his instructions. It says that Mr J knew from the maturity letter  and a reminder  letter sent out 
that his money  would be transferred into the Maturity Plus account  if instructions  werent  
received. And it said that because hed had fixed rate bond  before, Mr J wouldve known that 
his money hadnt  been moved  into one this time because he hadnt been  sent a new account  
number and passbook  as usual.
 
Mr J didnt agree with Newcastle Building Societys response and brought his complaint to 
our service  for an independent view. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint.  Newcastle  
Building Society has now offered to pay Mr J £100 as a gesture of goodwill, but he wants to 
be compensated for the full difference  in interest  between the Maturity  Plus account and the 
fixed rate bond  hed wanted. Because of this, Mr Js complaint  was referred  to me for an 
ombudsman decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN08338282Mr Js complains that Newcastle Building  Society didnt act on the instructions he says he 
sent in September 2017 - but Newcastle Building  Society says it didnt  receive them. The 
evidence here is inconclusive because Mr J didnt send the instructions by tracked  mail  
and I cant see that Newcastle Building Society  recommended he do so. I have no reason to 
doubt that Mr J posted them, particularly because  hed always  taken steps to transfer his 
maturing bonds  in the past  but theres also nothing to suggest Newcastle Building  Society  
lost them  either. 
In a situation like this, I cant rule out that the letter went  missing in the post. If I accept that 
Mr J sent it and that Newcastle Building Society didnt receive  it - I think that, on balance, 
this is more likely than not the reason that the letter wasnt received. This means itd be 
unfair for me to say that Newcastle Building  Society  should be held liable for what happened 
here, because it didnt happen as a result of something it did wrong.
Newcastle Building  Society explained  in its letter to Mr J that his money  would be transferred 
into the Maturity Plus account if it didnt receive instructions. Because Im not persuaded that 
Newcastle Building  Society ever received  Mr Js instructions, I think  it acted reasonably here 
when it transferred his money to the Maturity Plus account.   
Ive considered whether Newcastle Building Society communicated the position clearly  to   
Mr J. When hed transferred his money into fixed rate bonds before, hed been sent the new 
account numbers  in the post  but this time he wasnt.  He thinks  Newcastle  Building  Society  
didnt want him to know hed been  transferred to a lower interest  rate account. But I can see 
that when it transfers  money from one fixed rate bond into another, a new account number is 
generated. But when the proceeds of a fixed rate bond move  into the Maturity Plus account, 
the account number stays  the same and only the internal product code changes.  Im 
satisfied that this is why details  of the new account arent sent out in the same  way. Because 
of this, and because Newcastle Building Societys letter  explained what  would happen  when 
Mr Js fixed rate bond matured, I think it acted  reasonably overall here.
I sympathise with Mr Js view that he had no reason to doubt  his instructions were acted on. 
But in these particular  circumstances   where  he hadnt spoken  to an advisor  directly  and 
hadnt received  a confirmation that his instructions were  acted  on  its difficult for me to say 
that Newcastle  Building Society can be held responsible for him thinking  this.
Mr J couldve  checked the situation with his account himself when he didnt hear from 
Newcastle Building  Society. Its unfortunate that the interest summary letter or update  wasnt 
sent that year, particularly because Mr Js account doesnt have statements and he hadnt 
signed up for online banking. But I dont think this stopped Mr J checking on his account or 
contacting Newcastle Building Society  to ask for the missing information   so I dont agree it 
was at fault for his money being in the Maturity Plus account for several months. 
Although Mr J will be disappointed, taking  everything together  I dont find Newcastle Building 
Society at fault here. I think its offer to pay Mr J £100 as a gesture of goodwill  is more than 
reasonable in the circumstances and I wont be asking it to do anything more here.
Ref: DRN08338283my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint as the offer 
Newcastle Building  Society has made is a reasonable one. So my decision is that 
Newcastle Building  Society should pay Mr J £100,  but it doesnt need  to do anything else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0833828