K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy Telefonica UK Limited  (Telefonica) provided  him credit when he was 
having financial difficulty. He is also unhappy  with the way in which  Telefonica handled his 
complaint.
background
Mr P applied for a credit agreement with Telefonica in order  to buy a new device. Mr P failed 
to make payments  towards the agreement.  Due to the arrears,  the agreement was defaulted. 
Mr P contacted Telefonica on several occasions to come to a resolution for payment but no 
agreement was reached. Telefonica then passed  the debt to a debt recovery agency.
Mr P made a complaint to Telefonica  and says the credit agreement was sold to him without 
checking his finances properly. He says, had Telefonica checked his finances  properly,  they 
would have seen  he was having financial difficulties at the time.
Telefonica disagree and say it was unaware  at the point of sale he was having financial 
difficulties. It says it had taken into consideration Mr P paid his previous credit agreement 
without issue. 
Mr P says he was suffering with mental health  issues which were not taken  into 
consideration when dealing with his complaint. He says Telefonica were supplied  with 
medical evidence  prior to being defaulted  and was not treated in a sympathetic way. Mr P 
says Telefonica created  an unaffordable payment plan and the default put him in an even 
worse position.
Telefonica says it wasnt aware of his mental  health  issues until November  2018  and are not 
required to waive debts  and defaults, as Mr P had requested. It says it told Mr P of 
organisations that could help him.
Mr P says he was unhappy with the response as it failed to reply to his concerns regarding 
unaffordable and irresponsible  lending.
An investigator looked into this and thought Telefonica didnt do anything wrong. He didnt  
think there was any evidence available to Telefonica  that Mr P was experiencing financial 
difficulty at the point of sale.  He thought  the evidence  of Mr P paying his previous agreement  
along with a small increase to the repayments  (£5 extra  a month)  was affordable.
The investigator thought Telefonica  acted fairly when  made  aware of Mr Ps financial 
difficulties. He says Telefonica offered a payment plan and referred Mr P to external 
agencies that could assist him. 
Mr P disagreed with the investigator and the complaint  has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN07866312unaffordable and irresponsible  lending
In coming to my findings I have referred to the guidance set out by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)  in their handbook (CONC). This sets out the rules on consumer credit, 
including unaffordable and irresponsible lending.
Unaffordable lending means the customer couldnt  afford to pay the repayments on new 
credit at the time its taken out. There arent  set checks  a lender has to carry out, but the 
checks should be sufficient to establish that the lending is affordable.  They should be 
proportionate to the size of the loan, repayment amount, lending history  and information 
already known by the business.
In this instance Mr P was an existing customer of Telefonica and held a previous credit 
agreement with them. Mr P met the repayments  on this and the debt was settled in full. This 
is a positive indicator  Mr P could make repayments  and afford  the new arrangement.  Mr P 
was paying £5 more per month from his previous agreement; therefore the increase in 
lending was small. But this isnt the only thing to take into consideration.
Telefonica have refused  to supply detailed information regarding  its assessment of Mr Ps 
affordability due to commercial sensitivity. However, it has confirmed  no external checks  
were conducted in relation to Mr Ps financial  situation. 
Telefonica have to be satisfied with Mr Ps finances  and his ability  to meet repayments over 
the term of the agreement. I find solely relying on his previous ability to meet repayments as 
unreasonable and further factors  should have been taken into consideration. At the very 
least Telefonica should have looked into whether  Mr Ps circumstances  had changed since 
he took out the previous  agreement (nearly  two years earlier).
As I dont think Telefonica carried out sufficient checks, I need to consider what  lending 
decision it would have  likely come to if it had done sufficient checks.
I think Telefonica should have got a better understanding of Mr Ps outstanding credit  
commitments. To see what Telefonica would have likely found out had it explored this further 
I have reviewed Mr Ps credit report around  the time of the lending. It shows  he was able to 
make repayments on his other credit commitments, but that isnt the only thing to consider 
as there  are some concerns. There are a number of high cost short  term loans (payday 
loans) and some of these  are taken out close to the time Mr P was provided the lending by 
Telefonica. This could be a sign Mr P was struggling  with his finances. I think  Telefonica 
would have likely found this information out had it done sufficient checks.  I would have 
therefore expected it to have done  a more  detailed check to ensure  Mr P wasnt  in financial 
difficulty.
Weve asked Mr P for his bank statements around the time of the loan to see what  his 
financial situation was. But Mr P has only supplied transactions for one day and says he 
doesnt want to supply any further  for privacy reasons. I cant see from the statement he has 
provided that he was suffering from financial difficulties. So I dont have sufficient information 
to reasonably say Telefonica should have  come to a different lending decision had they done 
sufficient checks. For this reason alone,  it wouldnt be fair for me to say Telefonica had made 
an unreasonable decision to lend to Mr P. 
Ref: DRN07866313complaint handling and financial difficulties
Mr P says Telefonica havent  taken into consideration his mental health and have left him in 
a worse position than he was in already. 
Businesses are expected  to take positive  steps to assist customers who are experiencing 
financial difficulties. Having read the response  by Telefonica I can see a number of positive 
steps were taken to assist  Mr P:
1.Mr P was given the opportunity to enter a repayment plan.
2.Mr P was referred to organisations that could provide advice regarding his debt.
Having attempted  to reach an agreement for repayment, one wasnt  agreed. Telefonica says 
its only able to offer repayment plans spanning  six months. When a plan couldnt be 
reached it has passed the debt to a collection agency who can offer longer periods of 
repayment. 
These are positive steps in assisting a customer experiencing financial difficulties. These  
steps ensure the customer can seek advice and repay the debt at a pace that is suitable to 
them. For these reasons I find Telefonica has treated Mr P fairly when it was informed of his 
difficulties.
account default
The Information Commissioners  Office  says when a consumer is at least three months  
behind with their payments then a default  may be registered. It would generally expect a 
default to be registered by the time a consumer is six months behind with their payments. 
But there are situations where that wouldnt be fair or appropriate.
The purpose of reporting missed payments  and defaults to credit  reference agencies 
(CRAs) is to indicate the consumer  is showing  signs of financial difficulty or inability to 
manage his/her finances. As an arrangement had not been reached  for repayment and there 
were a number of missed  payments, I find it reasonable the arrears and default was 
recorded. Although  I appreciate Mr Ps frustration in his account being defaulted I find this 
was registered  fairly.  Mr P was experiencing financial difficulties and it is important this 
information is recorded correctly so that it can be taken into consideration in future  lending  
applications. This would allow other lenders to see the difficulties Mr P had and potentially  
prevent any lending that may have made his situation worse.
As Telefonica have  reported the correct  information to the CRAs I dont find they have done 
anything wrong  and therefore  will not be asking  them to do anything in relation  to this.
Ref: DRN07866314my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019. 
Stephen Westlake
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0786631