K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold him mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(MPPI).
background
Mr H took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage  in 2000. He paid a monthly  amount for the 
policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint was passed to me.
I sent Mr H and Barclays my provisional decision on 11 December 2018 explaining why I 
wasnt intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Neither  Mr H nor Barclays  have sent me any 
new points to consider  in response.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
Ive explained  my reasons again  below.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint because:
The MPPI  was sold to Mr H in 2000.  I understand the policy endured  to cover further 
mortgage borrowing that Mr H subsequently  took out. Barclays has only been able to 
send us limited paperwork from the time of sale. I dont  think this is surprising given how 
long ago the policy was sold to Mr H. For the same reason, I wouldnt expect Mr Hs 
recollection of the sale to necessarily be that detailed. However,  Barclays has provided  us 
with a copy  of a form on which I can see a box was ticked  to choose MPPI  and that Mr H 
signed to confirm this. Ive also thought carefully about what Mr H has said about the 
sale, but I just dont think theres enough evidence to say Mr H wasnt  given a choice. So I 
think its most  likely  that Barclays made  Mr H aware  that he had a choice about buying 
the MPPI, and that he chose to take it.
Barclays recommended the MPPI to Mr H, and it seems to have been right for him based 
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time.
Its possible Barclays couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But even 
if it had, I think Mr H would still have bought it.
Its possible Barclays didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mr H 
doesnt appear to have  been  affected  by any of those  things.
Ive taken into account Mr Hs comments.  But for the reasons explained above, these points 
dont change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN03100492my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0310049