K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C dont think Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds Bank)  has paid them fair compensation in 
response to a complaint about  the sale of a commercial overdraft repayment insurance 
(CORI) policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 13 February  2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint and explains why I think  
Lloyds Bank  has offered  Mr and Mrs C fair compensation.
Lloyds Bank  has confirmed that its received  my provisional decision. It says it has nothing to 
add.
Mr and Mrs C are represented  by a claims management company (CMC). Their  
representative has made a number of points in response to my provisional  decision which  Ive 
summarised and addressed below.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Except for one point  of clarification, Mr and Mrs Cs representative has only asked me to 
reconsider my provisional findings  on costs.
First, Im happy  to confirm that I think the premiums  paid between September 2001  and 
September 2006 from Mr and Mrs Cs account ending  4386  which I refer to as their second 
account in my provisional decision   were CORI premiums to protect account ending  6670. 
Im sorry  if anything  I said suggested otherwise.
Ive summarised Mr and Mrs Cs representatives response to my provisional  findings on costs  
below.
It says Lloyds Bank may have invited Mr and Mrs C to send it any evidence they had to 
show they had CORI when it wrote to them  in 2014, but the policy was sold in 1992. 
Understandably, Mr and Mrs C didnt  have any evidence but Lloyds Bank  did.
It says that in 2014, few consumers knew their data access  rights   and even fewer 
knew that financial businesses had information which  showed  theyd been mis-sold 
PPI. And it says nobody, including this service  or the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), knew that businesses  were  telling consumers that they didnt have information 
about PPI when they did.
It asks: why would  I expect Mr and Mrs C to contact Lloyds Bank  to ask it for any 
evidence of PPI when it had already told them it didnt have any?
It says this service would not have done what it did. It explains that it made  a data 
subject access request (DSAR) for these consumers, and scrutinised the statements 
line-by-line. This is how it learned that Mr and Mrs C were paying for CORI from their 
second account. It says this service would never have requested information in this 
Ref: DRN06276822way and scrutinised  it closely for any wrongdoing  especially wrongdoing the 
consumer wasnt aware of or hadnt articulated clearly.
Its mentioned other mis-sold products  and told me how much compensation 
Mr and Mrs C have received as a result. And its stressed that they only received this 
compensation because of the work it did.
It says I unfairly imply that consumers like Mr and Mrs C can simply write  to a business  
to ask it to investigate the possibility that they were mis-sold a range  of unidentified 
products and the business will conduct the type of forensic investigation  it says it 
conducted. It says this wouldnt happen.  And it says we only investigate  complaints 
when the consumers can identify a specific product they think was mis-sold.
It says Lloyds Bank has told other consumers it didnt have any evidence of PPI when 
it did. And it says it thinks Lloyds Banks  actions in 2014 were  fraudulent.
It says I should make  Lloyds Bank pay Mr and Mrs C £5,000, which  is less than half 
their CMC fee, to focus its mind on providing honest answers  to unrepresented  
consumers and provide justice to Mr and Mrs C in this case.
In its reply to my provisional decision,  Mr and Mrs Cs representative  says:
I do agree that Mr and Mrs [C] have probably been adequately,  perhaps even 
excessively, compensated by Lloyds in respect of this CORI policy, even after paying 
the fees we charged them  but that remains impossible to establish due to the lack of 
data. (Emphasis in original)
I have to make my decision  on the balance of probabilities. And Mr and Mrs Cs representative 
accepts that they have  probably received fair compensation  even after paying its fees. Any 
additional compensation I award would therefore  be punitive and not restorative. And much of 
what Mr and Mrs Cs representative says falls away as a result. 
I do appreciate how strongly  Mr and Mrs Cs representative feels  about this issue. But my role 
isnt to focus minds or punish businesses  thats  the role of the FCA. It writes the rules for 
financial businesses and it can fine those which  break  the rules.  Mr and Mrs Cs 
representative has told me it has referred a number of similar complaints to the FCA. Its now 
for the FCA to decide whether or not to take any action.
Id add that I didnt  mean to imply that a consumer could make a speculative  complaint about 
unidentified products and a business would  or should conduct a forensic  investigation to 
identify any wrongdoing. Thats not something I would expect a business to do. But I dont 
need to say more on this point in light of what Ive said above.
So although  Ive carefully considered what Mr and Mrs Cs representative  has said in reply to 
my provisional decision, I remain of the opinion that Lloyds Bank has offered Mr and Mrs C fair 
compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I think Lloyds Bank PLC 
has paid Mr and Mrs C fair compensation. So theres nothing more  it needs to do.
Ref: DRN06276823Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN06276824my provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs C dont think Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds Bank)  has paid them fair compensation in 
response to a complaint about  the sale of a commercial overdraft repayment insurance 
(CORI) policy.
background
In 2014, Mr and Mrs C contacted Lloyds Bank to complain about the sale of a CORI policy. 
Lloyds Bank  wrote to Mr and Mrs C on 13 May 2014. It said it had checked  its records  and 
Mr and Mrs C did not have a CORI policy. It invited them to send it any evidence  they had 
which showed that its records were incorrect.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs C, now represented by a claims management company (CMC),  
contacted Lloyds Bank again to say it had mis-sold  them a CORI policy. On 26 June  2017,  
Lloyds Bank  offered to pay them £10,260.49 to resolve the complaint. This was supposedly:
a refund of the CORI premiums (£637),
a refund of overdraft  interest caused  by those premiums (£6,265.25), and
simple interest (at 8% per year) to compensate Mr and Mrs C for being kept out of 
money they would  have had otherwise (£3,434.24), less
a partial refund Mr and Mrs C had already  received  (£76).
The letter said the policy  was purchased on 17 November 1992 and cancelled on 
10 December 1993.
In reply, Mr and Mrs Cs representative asked Lloyds Bank to:
explain why it had previously rejected their complaint;  and,
check the offer to make sure it had been calculated correctly.
On 16 August 2017, Lloyds Bank  wrote  to Mr and Mrs Cs representative  to explain that it 
couldnt now say why it didnt find any evidence of CORI on its internal system in 2014  and to 
confirm that its offer was correct.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative contacted Lloyds Bank in October  2017 to query the offer. It 
had made  a data subject  access request  (DSAR) and sent Lloyds Bank evidence to show that, 
from November 2001 until September 2006,  Mr and Mrs C paid for an insurance policy from 
another account. Below, I shall refer to this account  as their second account.
In December 2017, Lloyds Bank increased  its offer to £33,754.20  and offered Mr and Mrs C 
an extra  £100  for mistakenly saying they didnt have a CORI policy in 2014. The revised  offer 
included, for their current account:
Ref: DRN06276825a refund of CORI premiums (£5,194),
a refund of overdraft  interest caused  by those premiums (£12,040.62), and
simple interest (£14,481.80), less
a partial refund Mr and Mrs C had already  received  (£76).
It also included, for their second  account:
a refund of premium  (£1,003.45), and
simple interest (£1,110.33)
Below, Ill explain why the offer went up so much.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative still doesnt think this is enough. It wants Lloyds Bank to:
refund  Mr and Mrs Cs overdraft arrangement fees  it says Mr and Mrs C would not 
have needed an overdraft, and therefore would not have incurred these fees,  if they 
hadnt been mis-sold  CORI  and some other insurance policies;
pay part or all of Mr and Mrs Cs CMC  fees  it says Mr and Mrs C would not have had 
to pay its fees if Lloyds Bank had handled their complaint properly in 2014.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Lloyds Bank  needed  to do either. Mr and Mrs Cs representative 
disagrees so the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs CORI compensation
To calculate Mr and Mrs Cs CORI compensation, Lloyds Bank has attempted to reconstruct 
their current  account on a month-by-month basis to find out what might have happened  if they 
hadnt had CORI.  The offer is best understood in three parts: first, the impact of CORI on 
Mr and Mrs Cs current account from November 1992 until August 2001; second, the impact of 
CORI on the same account from September 2001  until December 2017; third, the refund  of 
the insurance premiums  Mr and Mrs C paid after September  2001  (from  their second 
account).
(1) The impact of CORI on Mr and Mrs Cs current account: November 1992-August 2001
Lloyds Bank has very little information about Mr and Mrs Cs current account before 
September 2001. Its records show a CORI policy was added in November 1992, cost 
£49 per month and was deleted-other reason in December 1993.  Lloyds Bank  has no 
record of any premiums being paid between January  1994  and July 2001. It knows 
Mr and Mrs C didnt pay for CORI from their current account  after August 2001,  when 
its more detailed records start.  And it knows Mr and Mrs C paid £16.45  per month  to 
an insurer from their second account from September  2001  until September  2006. But 
its not clear to me that this was the same  CORI policy that was deleted-other reason 
in 1993.
And yet, when it revised  its offer, Lloyds Bank  assumed a CORI premium  of £49 was 
added to Mr and Mrs Cs current account  every month between November 1992 and 
Ref: DRN06276826August 2001.  This is why the premium refund increased from £637  to £5,194. On the 
evidence Ive seen,  I dont think this was necessary. I do of course  accept that, at 
some point, Mr and Mrs C started paying  £16.45 per month  but its not clear when or 
why. And clearly something  happened in December  1993. So unless Lloyds Bank has 
found, or the insurer has provided, information  or evidence that indicates Mr and Mrs C 
continued to pay for CORI after December 1993,  Lloyds Bank has probably refunded  
CORI premiums  Mr and Mrs C didnt pay.
This also has a knock-on effect  on both the overdraft interest Lloyds Bank has 
refunded and the simple interest  its paid.  The knock-on effect is particularly sharp 
because of the way Lloyds Bank has calculated both in this case.
Specifically, it has assumed that between November 1992 and August 2001, 
Mr and Mrs C were charged  interest  on the CORI premiums on a cumulative, 
compound basis  (at a rate of just over 1.3% per month). So for every month, it has 
calculated interest  on the accumulated  cost of the CORI premiums  and the 
accumulated interest of earlier  months. I dont think this was necessary.
For example, Lloyds Bank has assumed  that, in August  2001,  Mr and Mrs C were 
charged just over £150 in interest  because  of CORI. Ive looked  at the first two years of 
known statement data: in October 2001, Mr and Mrs C were  charged £70.83  in 
overdraft interest,  which was the most  they were charged in the two-year period; in five 
months, they werent charged any interest  at all; and, on average,  they were charged 
£20.24 in overdraft interest  per month.  So I think its very unlikely CORI caused 
Mr and Mrs C to incur  interest of just over £150 in August 2001  when  thats a lot more 
than we know they were charged in overdraft interest in any month in the first two 
years of detailed records.
The same  can be said of earlier months. Detailed records arent  available  for 
106 months. In 23 of those months,  Lloyds Bank has assumed  Mr and Mrs C were 
charged more than £100 in interest because  of CORI;  in 39 of those months,  its 
assumed CORI caused Mr and Mrs C to incur  more  interest than the most they were 
charged in overdraft interest in the first two years of known statement data; and, in 
80 of those months, Lloyds Bank has attributed more interest to CORI than the two-
year average of overdraft interest.
In summary, Lloyds Bank has assumed that, between November 1992 and 
August 2001,  the accumulated cost of the CORI premiums was £5,194  and caused  
Mr and Mrs C to incur  an extra  £6,244 in overdraft interest.  For the reasons Ive 
explained above, I think Lloyds Bank has greatly  overestimated both.
(2) The impact of CORI on Mr and Mrs Cs current account: September  2001-December 2017
As Ive explained above, Mr and Mrs C didnt pay for CORI from their current  account 
during this period. However,  Lloyds Bank  has tried to work out what  impact  the 
accumulated cost of the policy (premiums  and overdraft  interest) might have had on 
the account after August 2001. To do this, its reconstructed the account  on a 
month-by-month basis. As before, its done  this in a way that has significantly 
exaggerated the impact of CORI. And again,  Mr and Mrs C have benefited enormously 
as a result.
Ref: DRN06276827In September  2001 (the first month of detailed records), Mr and Mrs C had a credit 
balance of just under £3,900. So whatever was added in premiums and extra  interest 
before then had been paid off and therefore  had no impact on the account  after 
September 2001. By the end of September 2001,  Mr and Mrs C were overdrawn by 
almost £9,500. But thats because their spending came to just over £24,700 that month  
and their income was approximately  £11,300.  The amount they owed, and the interest 
they incurred as a result, had nothing  to do with CORI   so Lloyds Bank didnt need to 
refund or recalculate the overdraft interest at all.
CORI is a type of payment protection insurance (PPI). The Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) writes  the rules for financial businesses and DISP  App 3 of the FCA Handbook 
tells businesses how to put thing right if they mis-sold PPI. The rules  say a business  
should, ordinarily,  refund  everything  the consumer paid for PPI plus simple interest on 
that amount (DISP App 3.7.3  E). In this context,  simple interest is a non-compound 
rate of 8% per annum  (DISP App 3.1.5 G).
So in this case, Lloyds Bank could have just paid simple interest on the accumulated 
cost of the policy from September 2001  until Mr and Mrs C received a refund. Instead, 
Lloyds Bank has assumed Mr and Mrs C would  have had £11,438 more in their current  
account in September 2001,  and reconstructed the account  accordingly by 
recalculating the overdraft interest every month to reflect  the reconstructed  balance.  As 
a result,  its refunded almost all of the overdraft interest it charged Mr and Mrs C 
between September  2001 and December 2017. It charged them £5,820.91 in overdraft 
interest; it has refunded £5,796.62.
This has a big impact on the amount of simple interest Lloyds Bank  has paid too. 
When the actual  account was overdrawn at the end of the month but the reconstructed 
account shows a notional credit balance, Lloyds  Bank has paid simple  interest  on the 
notional credit balance. If the actual account was in credit and the reconstructed  
account has a larger notional credit balance, Lloyds  Bank  has paid simple interest on 
the difference. As a result,  its paid Mr and Mrs C almost  £14,500  in simple interest.
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont think  Lloyds Bank  needed to refund any 
overdraft interest  from this period. And I think the amount its paid in simple  interest  is 
a lot more than it needed to because of the assumptions its made and the method its 
used.
(3) The refund  of CORI premiums paid after September  2001 (from their second account)
Above, Ive explained that, between September 2001 and September 2006,  
Mr and Mrs C paid £16.45  per month to an insurer from their second  account. 
Lloyds Bank has refunded  each payment with simple interest from the date of each 
payment until Mr and Mrs C received  a refund.  This is what Id expect it to do if it was a 
PPI policy.
Mr and Mrs Cs overdraft arrangement fees
Mr and Mrs Cs representative says they would not have  needed  an overdraft, and therefore 
would not have incurred any overdraft arrangement fees, if they hadnt been mis-sold  CORI 
and some other insurance policies. Specifically, it says the account reconstruction Ive referred 
to above is flawed because: (i) it doesnt include the insurance premiums paid after 
September 2001 from their second  account;  and (ii) it doesnt take into account a mis-sold 
Ref: DRN06276828business loan repayment insurance  (BLRI)  policy  which is a type of PPI policy Lloyds Bank  
sold with business  loans  and an accident protection policy.
I can address each point  briefly.
First, Ive said enough above about the account reconstruction to make it clear I too think  its 
flawed. But unlike Mr and Mrs Cs representative,  Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs C have 
benefited enormously because of its flaws.
Above, Ive explained  why, in spite of the account reconstruction Lloyds Bank has done,  I 
dont think CORI had any impact on Mr and Mrs Cs current  account  after August 2001. And 
Mr and Mrs C were often,  sometimes significantly, overdrawn as a result of their spending. So 
Im satisfied they would  still have  needed their overdraft facility  if they hadnt  had CORI.
Second, I dont think Lloyds Bank  needs  to include either the insurance premiums paid after 
September 2001 from the second  account, or the monthly cost of the other mis-sold policies, 
when it reconstructs Mr and Mrs Cs current account.
As Ive explained above, Lloyds Bank has paid simple interest on the CORI premiums from 
the date of each  payment. Ive checked  and Mr and Mrs Cs BLRI  compensation also included 
simple interest. Simple interest  is paid to compensate consumers for being kept out of money 
they would  have had if they hadnt  been  mis-sold a policy or policies. And the rate used 
reflects the fact that, for consumers, there are costs and losses involved. A speculative, open-
ended inquiry  into the consumers financial position   looking at what  the consumer actually  
did or otherwise would have done with the money  or, in this case,  whether or not there was an 
additional, indirect cost of borrowing  may occasionally be necessary, but will usually be 
unrealistic and unlikely  to result in definitive answers. In this case, I dont think  this kind of 
inquiry is necessary  or appropriate.
In any event, in light of what Ive said above  about the account reconstruction, and the fact 
that I dont  think CORI had any impact on the account after August 2001, it wouldnt make  a 
material difference to Mr and Mrs Cs use of their overdraft  facility if Lloyds Bank did take into 
account the other mis-sold policies.
Mr and Mrs Cs CMC fees
Finally, Mr and Mrs Cs representative  says Lloyds Bank should  pay part or all of 
Mr and Mrs Cs CMC fees.  It says they wouldnt have had to pay these fees if Lloyds Bank 
had handled  their complaint properly in 2014.  Its clear Mr and Mrs C have had to pay a lot 
more than £100 in CMC fees  which is how much  Lloyds Bank has offered them to say sorry 
for the mistake it made in 2014.
The rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service say I can tell a business  to pay the 
consumers costs (DISP 3.7.1 R). However, on our website,  we make it clear  that its easy and 
free to complain about PPI. Our service is free, informal and inquisitorial. We aim to make it as 
easy as possible to use our service and we investigate and decide complaints on the facts, not 
on the way theyre  presented. We also explain on our website that if a consumer chooses to 
use a CMC, it will take some of the compensation they get. 
In this case, I dont  think Mr and Mrs C needed the help of a paid representative. I say this 
because:
Ref: DRN06276829when Lloyds Bank wrote to Mr and Mrs C in 2014, it invited them  to send it any 
evidence they had which showed that its records were incorrect. And it explained  that 
they could ask us to look into their complaint. It doesnt look like Mr and Mrs C took 
any further action.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative wrote to Lloyds Bank in June  2017  to ask it to check to 
see if they had any CORI policies  and to say any policies  were mis-sold. Lloyds Bank 
then made its first offer. Mr and Mrs Cs representative made a DSAR and sent 
Lloyds Bank evidence to show  that theyd paid insurance premiums from another  
account. Lloyds  Bank  then revised  its offer. Based on what Ive seen so far, Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs C could have easily done  this themselves.
Whats more, as Ive explained  above,  Mr and Mrs C have been paid a lot more  money than I 
would have told Lloyds  Bank to pay. I think it would be especially unfair to tell it to pay even 
more.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think Lloyds Bank PLC has offered Mr and Mrs C fair 
compensation.
So unless the comments and information I get by 13 March  2019 change  my mind,  I wont  tell 
it to do anything more.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0627682