K821x#15complaint
Mr F says Gain Credit  LLC (trading as Lending Stream)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
Lending Stream gave  Mr F four instalment loans between January and April 2015.  When  he 
first complained to us, hed only repaid loan 1 and the others  were  still outstanding.
Heres a table showing  the loan details:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest
Repayment
1 06/01/2015 06/03/2017 6 £100.00 £42.40
2 17/03/2015 not known 6 £240.00 £137.60
3 02/04/2015 not known 6 £80.00 £165.76
4 11/04/2015 outstanding 6 £50.00 £186.48
Mr F complained that he was getting into bigger debt problems from month to month and 
couldn't afford to pay his loans back. He said hed had to sign a debt management plan and 
Lending Stream  shouldn't have given  him loans that werent  affordable. 
When Lending Stream looked at Mr Fs complaint, it first of all said that it had carried out full 
affordability checks on all the loans and it didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F was unhappy with this response  and he brought  his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel that hed seen  enough  to say it was unfair  for Lending Stream  to 
provide loans one to three to Mr F. But he thought that loan four shouldnt have been lent to 
him. He gave some detailed instructions  about  the way he thought Lending Stream should 
settle the complaint. 
Lending Stream said it accepted our adjudicators view and sent us details  showing  how it 
would work  out what to pay Mr F. And it said it would work with Mr F to help him clear  his 
debt through an affordable payment arrangement. 
We passed this information on to Mr F  but hes told us he doesnt want  to settle the 
complaint on this basis and hed like a final decision.  
So the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN03150212Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr F could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Lending Stream may even come a point where  the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates  that the lending  was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish  whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the  relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
For loans 1-3, Ive looked at what it appears Mr F had told Lending Stream  about  his 
financial circumstances and the repayment amounts he had to make.  Taking this information  
into account, and bearing in mind  that he was a new borrower with Lending Stream, I dont  
think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream  to ask Mr F for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing 
these loans. 
Loans 1-3 looked  comfortably  affordable for Mr F  based on what  hed said to Lending 
Stream about his finances. So I agree with our adjudicator  that there isnt enough 
information for me to be able to say that Lending  Stream shouldnt  have lent him loans 1-3. 
Ref: DRN03150213But when he asked  for loan 4, and Lending Stream agreed this application, this meant Mr F 
then had three loans  outstanding. Our adjudicator  felt that this ought to have alerted Lending 
Stream to the possibility that Mr F might have been having problems managing his money. 
Lending Stream reconsidered its position  and told us it now accepted  our adjudicators  view 
and was willing to take the steps  hed suggested to put things right for Mr F. 
I appreciate that Mr F has rejected  the proposed settlement. But having  looked carefully at 
all the available  information, overall,  I think Lending  Stream was right to acknowledge that 
lending loan 4 to Mr F was unfair. And the way the adjudicator has suggested resolving the 
complaint is fair and reasonable.
If Ive understood  correctly, Mr Fs main complaint now seems to be about  what Lending 
Stream says he still owes. 
Lending Stream says it sold the debt on loan 4 to a third party   and it understands that Mr F 
hasnt made  any payments towards the amount owing.  
We asked Mr F for evidence of payments hes made - but it looks like we havent heard back 
from him on this. So, in the absence of anything to the contrary, and based on all the 
information I've seen,  I think what Lending  Stream has suggested  is fair. Id invite  Lending 
Stream to take the debt back in order to try and resolve things directly  with Mr F  or 
otherwise, ask the third party to carry out my directions below and then work constructively 
with Mr F to come to an agreed plan for paying any outstanding balance still owing. 
If theres still a dispute about what he owes and Mr F feels he needs  further  help to resolve  
this, then theres more  information about how to get free debt advice on our website  or we 
can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do 
I think Lending Stream needs to honour  its offer to Mr F which is to:
refund  all interest and charges Mr F paid on loan 4 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
when Lending  Stream works  out what it owes Mr F, it can first apply this towards 
offsetting any outstanding capital balance  Mr F owes. And if there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then I remind Lending  Stream that it should take a 
sympathetic view when seeking  to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr F
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Fs credit file in relation to loan 4 
when it is repaid.
Ref: DRN03150214 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  
Lending Stream must give Mr F a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Fs complaint. Gain Credit  LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream) should  take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0315021