K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc didnt  do enough to help him when he fell victim to a 
scam. He says Santander could have done more to try and recover the money he lost and 
that it didnt tell him he could appeal its decision.  
background
In June 2016 Mr G fell victim to a scam. 
Mr G saw an advert for a room on a flat sharing website. He thought  he was dealing  directly 
with the landlord.  On 20 June 2016  he made a payment of £1,950 to cover  the deposit  and 
the initial rent due. 
The next day, the flat sharing website contacted Mr G to let him know  they thought  hed 
been scammed. Mr G contacted Santander to see if there was anything it could do to help. 
Santander contacted the bank where  Mr G had sent the money  straight away to see if any 
funds could be retrieved.  But the scammers bank confirmed no money  remained.  
On 22 June 2016, Santander sent Mr G a letter to say it hadnt been able to recover  any 
money and suggested he contacted the police to report the scam. 
In September  2018, Mr G contacted us and raised  a complaint about the way Santander 
handled things.  We asked Santander  to look into Mr Gs concerns first. in October  2018,  
Santander issued  its final response.  It said it wasnt responsible for Mr Gs loss because  hed 
made the payment willingly. It added it had tried to recover  the money on the same  day it 
was notified of the scam and couldnt help Mr G any further. 
Mr G remained  unhappy and asked  us to investigate. Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  the 
complaint. She didnt  think the payment would have appeared unusual or suspicious to the 
bank as it was similar  to Mr Gs usual account  and payment activity. She also thought 
Santander did what it could to try and recover  the money once it had been  made  aware of 
the scam.  
Mr G disagreed and asked that an ombudsman review his complaint. He thought  Santander 
could have done more with the beneficiary bank  to try and retrieve  the money because hed 
alerted it within  24 hours of the payment being  made. He also said Santander had 
deliberately not told him how to appeal its decision to avoid paying compensation and felt 
there should be consequences for this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the 
time. 
Ref: DRN09243902Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mr G and I can understand why he wants  to do all 
that he can to try and recover  his money.  But having thought very carefully about 
Santanders actions,  I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave 
Mr Gs account.  I also think it took appropriate  steps to try and recover funds from the 
beneficiary bank. So I dont think it needs  to reimburse Mr G with the £1,950 he lost or pay 
him any compensation. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  When Mr G made the payment, he didnt know he was 
dealing with a scammer,  so he sent the money  in good faith. This means that  at the time  
he wanted the payment to go ahead and authorised it to be made. And I have  taken that into 
account when  deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and  
regulated firms  like Santander are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to 
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mr G when he transferred £1,950 to the scammer and when he reported the fraud,  or 
whether it should  have  done more than it did.
Ref: DRN09243903Mr G doesnt dispute  he authorised the transfer  of £1,950 himself. Because of this, 
Santander had an obligation to follow his instruction.  But there are some situations in which  
it should reasonably have  had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer. 
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter  of good practice Santander  shouldve  been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
So Ive first thought  about whether the payment Mr G made was out of character and 
unusual. Having looked at Mr Gs statements in the months leading  up to the scam,  I dont 
think the payment  was so unusual or suspicious in comparison to Mr Gs normal account 
activity that it ought to have alerted Santander  that Mr G may have been at risk of financial 
harm. Mr G regularly makes  larger  transfers  so a payment of £1,950  wasnt particularly out 
of character or unusual.  So in the circumstances, I dont think  Santander did anything wrong 
by following  the instructions  Mr G gave  and sending the money.
Ive gone on to think about  whether Santander did what it shouldve  done once Mr G 
reported to it that hed been the victim of a scam. Ive looked  into what Santander  did once 
Mr G reported the scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Santander  to refund Mr G, 
I need to be satisfied Santander should have acted sooner in trying  to recover the money. 
And if I dont  think it acted soon enough,  I need to decide whether  it made  any difference
When Mr G told Santander that hed been  scammed it acted quickly.  The banks records  
show it contacted  the beneficiary bank to see if any money could be retrieved around  half an 
hour after Mr G first reported it. Unfortunately, no funds could be recovered.  Mr G has 
pointed out that he reported  the scam within 24 hours of the payment being  made  and asked 
if Santander could  have done more  with the beneficiary bank  to follow  the money. But 
Santander wouldnt have  access to any information  around how the recipient account 
operated or what happened to the money  Mr G sent once  it was removed. So contacting the 
scammers bank  to try and retrieve the money was all Santander could do to help Mr G. 
Mr G says Santander deliberately didnt tell him how to appeal its decision because  it wanted 
to avoid paying compensation. We would only expect Santander to have sent Mr G a 
deadlock letter giving details of how he could refer his concerns to this service if he had 
expressed dissatisfaction with how Santander  had handled things and disagreed.  He didnt 
contact Santander  and let it know he was unhappy with its response  until 2018. So I dont 
think Santander did anything wrong by not telling Mr G about this service  any sooner than it 
did. 
And given  that Im satisfied Santander did all they could to try and retrieve  his money in 
2016, even if Mr G had been told he should complain and could have come to this service at 
an earlier stage, I dont  think  that would have made a difference to the eventual  outcome of 
his complaint.
I am sorry  that Mr G has lost out, and I understand that this whole experience will have 
caused him distress. But Im not able to fairly say Santander should have to refund his 
money or pay him compensation in circumstances when it hasnt done anything wrong. 
Ref: DRN09243904my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint 
against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0924390