K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that U K Insurance Limited misled her into believing  she had 
comprehensive cover  to drive abroad under her car insurance policy.
background
Mrs H bought a comprehensive  car insurance policy with UKI in March  2018. She lives in 
Northern Ireland. In October 2018  Mrs H discovered that she was only insured on a third 
party basis  if she drove in the Republic of Ireland (ROI). Mrs H complained to UKI as she 
said the wording  on her Certificate  of Insurance led her to believe she was comprehensively  
insured to drive  in the ROI. Mrs H said UKI should  have been  clearer. 
Mrs H wanted UKI to provide her with comprehensive insurance to drive in the ROI without 
the need to request cover for 90 days at a time and pay and additional premium. She travels 
regularly to the ROI and at short  notice.  So Mrs H said the policy isnt suitable for her. Mrs H 
wants UKI to change the wording on the Certificate of Insurance as she believes its 
misleading. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI 
had explained  the level of cover Mrs H had in the policy booklet. And she found  that Mrs Hs 
Certificate of Insurance didnt say she had comprehensive cover to drive in the ROI.
Mrs H didnt agree. She says its misleading for UKI to include the ROI on the Certificate  as it 
draws a distinction between it and other EU countries. Because  UKI list the ROI there,  she 
feels any reasonable person would assume  this meant they were  insured on the same  basis  
in the ROI as in the UK. 
So Mrs H would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Certificate says;
Certification  I hereby  certify that the Policy to which this certificate  relates satisfies  
the requirements of the relevant law applicable  in Great Britain,  Northern  Ireland,  the 
Republic of Ireland, the Isle of Man, the Island of Guernsey, the Island of Jersey and 
the Island of Alderney.
This wording relates to the law in these countries. In other  words,  UKI says the contract has 
been written to satisfy  the laws of those countries. So even if Mrs H had bought third party 
cover, this wording would be the same. I can appreciate Mrs Hs comments  about the 
inclusion of the ROI on UKIs Certificate  of Insurance.  But I cant conclude  that the Certificate 
suggests Mrs H is comprehensively  insured  to drive in the ROI. It doesnt say that. 
Under the section  territorial limits Mrs Hs policy reads:
Ref: DRN04721682This policy provides the cover described in your schedule in Great Britain,  Northern 
Ireland, the Isle of Man, the Channel Islands and during journeys between  these  
places.
Under the section  foreign  use UKI explains  that Mrs Hs policy provides the minimum level 
of cover (third party) for driving  abroad   listing the ROI as one the countries. It then goes on 
to explain that Mrs H can extend her level of cover abroad for an additional premium. 
I understand Mrs H says the way in which the policy operates makes it unsuitable for her. 
But UKI didnt give any advice when Mrs H decided to buy its policy. So I dont think UKI is 
responsible for the fact that Mrs H feels  the policy doesnt suit her needs. 
I realise Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision. But I think UKI clearly set out the level 
of cover Mrs H had to drive in the UK and abroad  in her policy. And so I dont  think it acted 
unreasonably. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0472168