K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains than The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI)  alongside  a credit  card.
background
in 1999 Mrs H took out a credit card during a branch  visit and at the same  time PPI was 
added to the account. Mrs H says it must  have been added without her knowledge.
The policy provided  a monthly benefit  of 10% of what Mrs H owed on the card at the time of 
the claim,  in the event she couldnt  work  due to accident, sickness  or if she became 
unemployed. The policy cost no more than 79 pence for every £100  of outstanding balance.  
It would pay out for up to 12 months  per claim.
Mrs H told us she was entitled  to sick pay and her family could have helped her out if 
necessary.
Mrs Hs credit card account was closed in 2005.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. She said that there wasnt any information 
left from the time of sale, so she didnt think it was fair to say Mrs H wasnt  given a choice 
about PPI. And she didnt  think based  on her circumstances at the time that Mrs H had lost 
out by having PPI.
Mrs H disagrees   she acknowledges  theres  very little information left about what 
happened. But she maintains PPI must have been  added without her knowledge. She says 
she never took out PPI with any other credit product.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Mrs H has not lost out as a result of taking out PPI 
because:
While  I hear what Mrs H says  that PPI must have been added  without  her knowledge  
in weighing things  up, Im mindful that the events in question  took place many years ago; 
the account closed well over 10 years  ago and theres nothing left by way of paperwork 
from the time to help me establish  what happened and how PPI was presented.
Im conscious that PPI and its cost would have  appeared on Mrs Hs credit  card 
statements and did so for several  years,  so if it was something she didnt agree to she 
could have queried it with RBS sooner.
Ref: DRN06649032So taking all of the above into account,  I find theres not enough  evidence  to support 
what Mrs H says - I think its likely Mrs H has simply forgotten  that she elected to take 
out the policy. So I dont uphold her complaint  that she didnt consent  or agree to take 
out PPI. 
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H  both parties accept this - so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure she got the information she 
needed to make  that decision  herself.
 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she likely  chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like 
she wanted this type of cover;  albeit  Im mindful she likely  did so based on incomplete 
information. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Hs circumstances  at the time, it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the significant exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been  useful and of benefit to her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said in submitting her complaint - including  what 
she says about  the amount of sick pay she was entitled to at the time and the help she says 
her family could have  provided her. But these points dont change  my decision.
Mrs H did have some sick pay  a not insignificant amount. But as I said above,  I think  on 
balance Mrs H chose to take out the cover, so she was clearly  interested  in protecting  her 
card repayments. The cover would have paid out alongside any sick pay she had and had 
the potential to pay out for longer.
Im not persuaded relying on family is a guaranteed  means of financial protection,  so I dont  
think the policy was inappropriate for Mrs H. So for this reason and for the reasons Ive set 
out above, I dont  think  better information  about  the cover would have  caused  Mrs H to act 
differently and decline the cover.  It therefore  follows that shes  not lost out.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided that Mrs H has not suffered a loss as a result  
of taking out PPI with her credit card, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0664903