K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Shop Direct Finance  Company  Limited (trading  as Very) lent her money 
irresponsibly. She wants a refund of interest and charges and for the agreement to be 
removed from her credit file.
background
Ms C tells us between October  2010 to November  2012 Very increased her credit  limit seven  
times - even though she only made  minimum payments during this period. She says she 
was buying a lot of goods on Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) which  she feels  should  have 
indicated she could  not afford  to pay for the items. She says her outgoings  exceeded her 
income and she had to take extra credit to meet her commitments.
Very told us Ms C had opened  the account  in 2009  with a credit limit of £1,000.  It said Ms C 
had managed her account well and rarely  used  more  than half of the credit available.  It said 
the limit gradually increased until October 2012  when it reached  £4,500.  Up to that point 
Very said it had no affordability concerns. That changed in December 2012 when it saw 
there had been  missed  payments. Although  attempts were made to set up an affordable  
payment plan initially this had not proved possible. But Very said it had stopped interest and 
charges at this stage  and reduced her credit limit to prevent further  indebtedness. A payment 
plan was arranged  in 2013.  When this ran out Very said it sent a self-help pack  to Ms C to 
see if a further arrangement was suitable but she didnt respond.  It said it assigned the debt 
to another company in January 2016.
The adjudicator did not recommend the complaint  should be upheld.  He said whilst  Very had 
increased the credit limit Ms C hadnt used the entire available  amount. And the maximum 
account balance  - around £2,200 - corresponded  with her credit limit in July 2010. He said 
there werent  any issues with missed  payments until late 2012  - when Ms C had contacted 
Very. He said once  Very had become aware of her difficulties it had waived charges and 
interest and reduced  her credit limit.
Ms C didnt agree and said Very should have  checked her credit  file before increasing her 
limit. She wanted an ombudsman to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to see Ms C has experienced financial problems and ill-health and has clearly gone  
through a difficult  time over a lengthy  period.
Ms C first opened this account in 2009  and normally we can only go back six years from the 
time the complaint is first made to the business or ourselves. I understand this was in 
November 2017.  This would  normally  mean I couldnt go back to anything  that happened  
before November 2011. But as Very has given permission for us to look at issues before 
then I can look at the full picture of events.
Ref: DRN08473672When we look at complaints about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending its essentially a 
two stage process. Businesses are required to make  checks  on a customers  ability to repay 
any loan. And this requires checks to be sufficient  and proportionate having regard to a 
number of factors including, but not limited to, the amount of any loan and the size of 
repayments. I should emphasise there  is no set list of checks - and each business is able to 
carry out such checks as it considers it needs.  Once checks have been carried  out wed then 
expect a business to ensure the amount  loaned  was such that enabled the customer  to 
repay it from their disposable income.
Ms C has provided a helpful table which indicates she had surplus household income until 
July 2010. I note the available  credit limit on the account at that time was £2,350. From  then 
until December 2012 the account  was maintained and no arrears were  recorded. Whilst the 
credit limit increased I cant see the actual expenditure ever exceeded the limit that applied  
in July 2010. Many consumers choose  to make  minimum payments as it can help with 
budgeting and spreading  out repayments.  The same considerations apply  to BNPL.
There were no obvious  signs that should have been  apparent to Very that Ms C was in any 
financial difficulties. It would have  seen from its own records  that Ms C maintained payments 
and that the level of spending did not rise above the limit that was available  in the middle of 
2010. It wasnt until December 2012  that it noticed  missed payments and Ms C told it about 
the difficulties  she was facing.
Although the credit  limit increased  during  the period from July 2010 to December 2012 Ms C 
didnt take up this extra credit. She herself accepts it was fortunate  that she did not. And I 
have to judge a lending  decision  at the time it was made - not on what happens later. Its 
also the case that available credit which isnt taken up cant  amount to unaffordable  lending. 
Once it became  aware of Ms Cs difficulties, Very seems to have responded in a positive and 
sympathetic manner by stopping  interest  and charges  and entering  into a payment 
arrangement. So it reacted  in the way Id have expected in the circumstances.
Lenders are required to ensure any report made  to a credit  reference agency is accurate. So 
the recording of a default and/or any subsequent payment arrangement  is not something Id 
require Very to alter as I dont think its done anything wrong in this case.
Whilst I know it will come as a disappointment  to Ms C Ive reached the view that Very did 
not lend her money irresponsibly  or which was unaffordable. And so Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08473673
Ref: DRN0847367