K821x#15Mr M says Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ms account when he completed  an application  form for a credit  card.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. Barclays disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint because I dont think Barclays  gave him clear  
enough information about the policy. Ill explain why. 
Barclays didnt recommend the sale.  But Barclays still had to provide Mr M with enough 
information for him to decide  whether the policy was right for him. The terms and conditions  
that likely  apply to Mr Ms policy say that he wasnt able to claim for any condition  he knew  
about or saw a doctor about in the 12 months  before the sale.  And Ive not seen  anything  to 
suggest Mr Ms attention  was drawn  to this limitation.
What I need to think about  is whether  Mr M wouldve  bought the policy  if hed been given the 
right information  not whether Mr M took time off for his condition. Mr M had a long term 
medical condition  and at the time of sale was receiving treatment and taking medication to 
control it. Thinking  about the nature of the condition and everything hes told us, I think  its likely  
that it wouldve  been at the forefront of his mind when deciding if he might want  cover to protect 
his card payments  in the event he was unable to work. 
So I think Mr Ms medical condition wouldve played an important role in his decision on 
whether to purchase a policy including accident  and sickness  cover.  And given the nature of 
Mr Ms condition,  I dont  think that he wouldve bought the policy  if hed been  told  as he 
shouldve done   he wouldnt be able to claim if he couldnt work because  of it. I dont think 
Mr M wouldve bought  the policy if hed been  provided with clear enough information.  So, I 
think Mr M has lost out because of what Barclays did wrong.
fair compensation
Im intending  to say that Barclays should put Mr M in the position hed be in now if he hadnt 
taken out the PPI. So Barclays should:
Ref: DRN06925492A.find out how much  Mr M would have owed when he closed his credit  card account if the 
policy hadnt been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr M owed when he closed  
his account and what he would have owed  if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.add simple  interest on the difference  between what Mr M would  have owed when he 
closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
C.also pay simple interest  on the extra Mr M paid - if when Barclays  works out what  Mr M 
would have owed each  month  without  PPI he paid more than enough to clear  his 
balance. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mr M wouldve owed 
Barclays something  on his credit card. The interest  rate should  be 8% a year.
D.tell Mr M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0692549