K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about how Aviva  Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against  his travel
insurance policy.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 22 January 2020,   
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision,  so I wont repeat that 
information here. In my provisional decision,  I explained why I didnt propose to uphold
Mr Hs complaint. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Aviva said it had nothing  further to add. We didnt receive a substantive response from Mr H.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr H nor Aviva  has provided  me with anything further on the complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision.  So, for 
the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN05156972extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr H complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited  dealt with a claim  against his travel insurance 
policy.
background
Mr H has a worldwide travel policy as a benefit of his bank account.  He was on holiday  abroad.  I 
understand that his holiday didnt end until 2 May 2019.
On 1 April 2019, Mr H contacted Aviva  and told it that hed broken  a tooth whilst eating.  Aviva told Mr 
H that his policy covers dental treatment for emergency pain relief only and to ask for a report  from 
the dentist.  It also told him that hed need to pay for the treatment and then reclaim the cost.
On 4 April 2019, Mr H contacted Aviva  again and said that hed need a crown at an approximate  cost 
of over £600.  Aviva told him that the policy only covers pain relief and that a crown isnt pain relief 
treatment but full treatment . Aviva said that Mr H should have a temporary  filling and then a crown 
when he was back in the UK. Mr H sent Aviva two quotes  for treatment and asked for confirmation 
that it would pay for the crown. Aviva said that the policy  covers emergency  pain relief  and that the 
initial treatment of a temporary  dressing would be sufficient until he was back in the UK. It said that 
the crown isnt medically necessary for pain relief. Mr H raised further questions. Aviva  accepts it 
didnt answer what hed asked.
On 5 April 2019, Aviva  asked its dentist for advice. On 6 April 2019, Avivas dentist  said that the 
option of a temporary filling  was appropriate and Aviva relayed that to Mr H. Mr H asked whether 
Aviva would pay an amount equal to the cost of the temporary  filling if he chose to have  the crown.  
Aviva said that it would. Subsequently, Mr H claimed  for the full costs of the treatment he had abroad.
Mr H complains that Aviva:
didnt answer some of his questions;
delayed in both referring the quotes to a specialist and determining his claim  and
gave  him unsuitable advice, provided  poor service and dealt with his claim 
unreasonably.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought  that Aviva had dealt with the 
matter fairly. The investigator  said that the policy doesnt cover permanent repairs to the tooth but can 
cover fixing the problem  until Mr H can visit a UK dentist and have a more permanent repair. He said 
that the statement from Mr Hs UK dentist covers whats necessary to fix the tooth permanently. The 
investigator thought it was reasonable for Aviva to pay for the temporary filling.
Ref: DRN05156973Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said, in summary:
The investigator should  reasonably interpret emergency treatment during the whole of the 
45 day period covered  by the policy,  to include all necessary treatment that allows the 
insured to continue the trip without  pain and without the need for further substantial 
treatment during the 45 day period.
If an insured person breaks a leg, its reasonable  for the emergency  treatment to allow  the 
insured to be without  pain for the remainder of the trip, not just a few days that a temporary 
treatment may last, especially when  a temporary treatment is likely  to cause longer  term 
health issues.
The investigator was biased in favour of Aviva.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting  point is the terms and conditions of the policy,  the relevant part of which provides as 
follows:
Emergency  medical treatment  []
Emergency dental treatment outside your home territory which  is required for immediate  pain 
relief and/or emergency  repairs to dentures or artificial teeth  to alleviate distress in eating only.
What is not covered
[]
2. Any claim for: 
[]
d) any form of treatment that your treating doctor and our Medical Emergency  Assistance provider 
think can reasonably wait until you return home.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules  and industry guidance  say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle  claims  promptly 
and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim  unreasonably.
Im not upholding  Mr Hs complaint because I dont think that Aviva treated  him unfairly.  I say that 
because:
Mr Hs policy only covered emergency dental treatment for immediate  pain relief.
Based on what Ive seen, Mr H wasnt in immediate  pain: he referred to being  worried  that his 
broken tooth would start to hurt.
Ref: DRN05156974Ive seen itemised quotes from the treating  dentist  aboard for both a crown  and a temporary 
filling. I assume both courses of treatment were clinically suitable  but that doesnt mean  
that both are covered under the policy.
I dont think that Aviva  was required to cover the cost of a crown, as that was more  than 
was required for immediate  pain relief.
Aviva referred its decision to its dentist, which is what wed expect  it to do in cases  like 
this. Avivas dentist said that the temporary filling  was sufficient.  Mr H hasnt provided 
evidence from the treating dentist abroad that contradicts  that.
Ive noted the report from Mr Hs UK dentist.  He says that the best treatment plan  
shouldnt be a temporary  filling. But Mr Hs policy  doesnt  provide cover for the best 
treatment plan for any dental  problem: it provides cover for emergency dental  treatment 
for immediate pain relief.
I appreciate that the temporary filling  isnt a permanent  fix and I can quite understand  why Mr 
H chose  to have the crown treatment  but that isnt covered under  his policy.
I note that Aviva offered to pay a sum equivalent to the cost of the temporary  filling. I think 
thats fair.
Aviva accepts that two of its responses to Mr H were  not sufficiently clear and its 
apologised for that. I dont think that it needs to do more.
I dont think that Aviva  took too long to determine  Mr Hs claim. It gave him accurate 
information when he first contacted it about this on 1 April 2019.  When  Mr H asked for 
confirmation that Aviva would cover  the crown, it said that it needed  further information.  
Mr H gave Aviva  the quotes on 4 April 2019 and Aviva told Mr H what his policy  
covered the same  day. Mr H didnt accept what Aviva said so, on 5 April 2019, Aviva 
asked its dentist for an opinion.  Aviva  received its dentists response on 6 April 2019  
and relayed that to Mr H on the same day. I dont  think  that Aviva delayed  unduly  in 
dealing with Mr Hs claim.
I dont agree that emergency treatment includes  all necessary treatment to allow the 
insured to continue the trip without  pain and without the need for further substantial  
treatment during the 45 day period. Thats not what the policy says and I dont think that 
would be a fair extension of the cover  Mr H actually  had.
Each claim is determined on its own facts. Mr Hs analogy of an insured with a
broken leg doesnt assist us, as the cover for non-dental emergency  treatment isnt limited  
to immediate  pain relief.
my provisional  decision
Im sorry to disappoint  Mr H but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont propose to uphold his 
complaint.
Ref: DRN0515697