K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that John Lewis Financial Services Limited didnt credit a payment to her 
account.
background
Mrs C contacted John  Lewis  in April 2018  to pay off her credit card balance in full. She was 
told the payment  had been successful, but it didnt appear on her next statement. John 
Lewis had entered  the wrong  details  into their system, and the payment was refunded to 
Mrs C on 3 May.
John Lewis  apologised  for the error, and for how they dealt with the matter. They refunded  
Mrs C the interest she was charged on her account  in April and May 2018, and they gave 
her 7,000  reward points. After receiving  the refunded payment, Mrs C chose not to repay her 
account in full and shes continued making monthly  payments. 
Our adjudicator found that John  Lewis made  an error when  processing  the payment  Mrs C 
made in April 2018. But he felt theyd responded fairly and reasonably  to Mrs Cs complaint,  
and he didnt think they should do anything  more.
Mrs C didnt agree with the adjudicator.  Shes unhappy that John  Lewis didnt explain to her 
why her payment  was rejected  or tell her itd been refunded  to her. Shes also unhappy that 
John Lewis  denied shed  made any payment when she first contacted her about this and that 
a copy of this call isnt available. 
Mrs C has explained that she wasnt going to make  the payment to her card again  without an 
explanation why it was rejected. She thinks John Lewis shouldve suspended the interest on 
her account  until she got this explanation  (in January 2019) and that shes been  put at a 
financial disadvantage by paying interest  while she was waiting for this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Its not disputed  that John  Lewis  made an error when  processing the payment Mrs C made 
in April 2018. They took the payment from her account and they gave her a reference 
number, which made her believe the payment  had been successful. But they entered  the 
wrong card number into their system which meant the payment couldnt be applied to 
Mrs Cs account. 
In their letter of 30 May 2018, John Lewis explained that the payment had been refunded to 
Mrs C and that theyd  given her incorrect information when she spoke  to them  about  the 
payment on 14 May 2018.
Ref: DRN02395602John Lewis  credited Mrs Cs account  with £33.88  the interest she was charged in April and 
May 2018 - because  they took the payment incorrectly.  But John Lewis  couldnt  credit the 
payment to Mrs Cs account  because  this had been  returned  to her. Mrs C wouldve needed 
to make the payment again, but she chose not to. John Lewis  have also credited Mrs C with 
7,000 reward points  (equivalent to £70 John Lewis vouchers) by way of an apology  for what 
has happened.
Theres no doubt that it came as a shock to Mrs C, when she received her credit  card 
statement, to find out that the payment hadnt  been  applied. And when she first phoned John 
Lewis about this they said she hadnt made  a payment  and asked her for a reference 
number she didnt have,  and they didnt  need. This added  to the stress of the situation for 
Mrs C.
John Lewis  told Mrs C the payment had been  refunded to her in their letter of 30 May 2018. I 
agree this letter couldve been  better and explained  to Mrs C the reason why the payment 
was rejected. But it did tell her what had happened to her payment. And John Lewis 
refunded her two months interest  and gave her reward points equivalent to £70  I think this 
was reasonable  compensation  for the issues  they caused.
Mrs C knew in May 2018 that the payment had been  refunded  to her, and it was her choice 
to make this payment  again or not. Because she chose not to make  the payment again,  
shes been charged interest  on the outstanding balance.  I think this is fair  I dont think its 
reasonable to ask John Lewis to refund any interest payments after May 2018 as a result of 
Mrs Cs choice not to make the payment,  whether she thought shed had a reasonable 
explanation about the rejection or not. 
A copy of the 18 May 2018 call with John  Lewis isnt available. While  this is unfortunate, the 
contents of this call arent  disputed  John Lewis said they hadnt  received any payment and 
asked Mrs C to provide a reference number they didnt need. Because  of this, I dont  think 
the lack of call recordings  means John Lewis are trying to hide something. I cant  uphold  a 
complaint on the lack of call recordings  alone  and I have to rely on what both parties  have 
told me. So I wont be asking John Lewis to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint about John Lewis 
Financial Services Limited  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0239560