K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr H bought the policy in 1995 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. Mr H remembers  
taking the card and PPI out by post. But Barclays has said that its not entirely  clear  how 
things happened  because the application form used at the time was the same  whether it was 
a postal sale or a branch sale. It has therefore  assumed Mr H applied  for the credit card and 
PPI policy  in-branch to put him in the most favourable position. And this seems  fair in the 
circumstances.
At the time,  Mr H was employed  as a warehouse manager. He has told us he was not 
entitled to any enhanced  sick pay and didnt have any other means  of repaying his credit  
card should  he be unable to work. Mr H has said he had a medical condition at the time of 
the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Hs credit  card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 70p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
Barclays has sent us evidence to show that the credit card account closed no later than 
2002.
Mr Hs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Hs representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Hs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Mr H about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr H and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and 
Ref: DRN04015322The information Mr H received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  no later than 2002. That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN04015323The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Hs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mr H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Barclays gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr H and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr H know  he had a choice?
Ref: DRN04015324Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Barclays has provided a copy of Mr Hs credit card application from the time.  Looking  at this I 
can see there is a separate section on the form for PPI which asked the applicant  to tick one 
of two equally prominent boxes  Yes  or No  to indicate whether they wanted PPI or not. 
And Mr H has ticked the Yes box. This section  didnt say or imply that Mr H had to have PPI 
 so if he didnt  want the cover  he couldve  ticked the other  box.
Mr H signed the application overall, so taking everything into account, I think its more likely 
that Mr H knew the policy  was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Barclays provide  advice?
Barclays says that advice was provided during this sale. 
This means  Barclays had to advise Mr H with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Barclays took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr H. It seems  Mr H cant remember  clearly what  happened and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. Notwithstanding the 
passage of time, this is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser likely 
had some limited information about Mr Hs financial  circumstances, but there is no specific 
evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr H would  have been  caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet his needs.  For example, there is nothing to suggest Barclays considered whether Mr H 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Barclays did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr H given  his circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Barclays advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Barclays did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr H had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Hs ability  to continue to meet 
his credit card repayments  would  have been  put under strain  if he was not working 
for an extended period of time  Mr H didnt have any means to fall back  on.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr H.
Ref: DRN04015325-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr H. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Hs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr H has told us about a 
condition he said he had suffered from since childhood. But the condition  Mr H 
describes isnt an uncommon  condition and in my view it typically doesnt  impact 
someones ability to work. And Mr H hasnt said or indicated  otherwise. So because  I 
dont think Mr H  or the adviser  would have  thought this would likely be the main  
reason hed need to claim on the policy, I dont  think it was wrong for Barclays to 
have recommended it to him. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, unemployment it still provided useful cover given Mr Hs circumstances 
and the fact the policy could have cleared his outstanding card balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Barclays  gave Mr H sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what 
Barclays was recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow 
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr H was given a very broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr H would have been told this  at the very least   during  the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mr H would have taken out the policy without  
any sense of what the policy was. The application  form he signed also described the policy  
this way, which would have given him some idea of what the policy was for.
I also think Mr H would  have realised the policy wasnt free and its likely he would have had 
some understanding of how much the policy cost before agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Barclays gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mr H 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary Mr 
H might  have been given, I think its more  likely  than not that he based  his decision on the 
things he was told, rather than on anything he was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Mr H, Im not persuaded Barclays  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mr H.
Im not persuaded that Barclays gave  him all of the information he needed about the policy  
to make an informed decision about  whether to follow  the recommendation and take out the 
policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN04015326In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points about the requirements  on a business when providing information in PPI 
sales. It suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Mr Hs. Ive considered these 
carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Hs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr H has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Barclays shortcomings have  on Mr H? To what extent did Mr H suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr H. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr H suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr H would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Barclays done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Barclays took the steps it should have done  to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr H, Ive found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr H has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Barclays had explained things 
properly, Mr H would have acted  differently,  or whether he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Mr H says he would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN04015327The evidence in this case suggests that Mr H had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Barclays advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event  he was unable  
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Hs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr H ought  reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance   this 
was set out on the application form. But, I accept that Barclays didnt make clear  the on-
going cost information. So while Mr H didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the 
event of a successful claim was not dissimilar  to what he would reasonably have thought  
from the information he based his decision to take out the policy  on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr H thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr H received advice, 
treatment or counselling from a doctor  during the 12 months before the start of the 
policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr H 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr H be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mr H pause for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the 
policy wasnt as good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr H from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr H says he had a medical condition when 
the PPI was taken  out, for the same reasons I set out earlier on as to why I dont think Mr Hs 
condition made  the policy  unsuitable, I dont think better information  about this exclusion 
would have put him off agreeing to it. 
In addition I havent seen any evidence to suggest  he wouldve been caught  by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN04015328The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr H would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr H had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his job or 
a similar  job but also unable to do any job, which  in the insurers view he might reasonably 
be qualified  for, it might  have played  into his thinking about what he would do. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  given Mr Hs circumstances and the fact 
that he didnt have any real means  to make his repayments if he wasnt working, on balance,  
I still think he would have  been interested in taking out the cover.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr H would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting and he didnt have any real means of meeting his credit  card 
repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness and, he thought,  
redundancy. And in those circumstances I consider it more likely than not that he would have 
taken out the policy  in any event.   
Mr Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr H would not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr H 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr H in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN04015329That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Barclays should pay Mr H compensation, as that would put him in a better position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr H thinks Barclays misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclays statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mr H, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1995 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Barclays negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr H and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr H in a better position than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0401532