K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that Financial  Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a 
store card PPI (payment  protection insurance) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple, Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Mrs M took out the PPI at the same time as applying for a store  card whilst in a shop in 
December 1994.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain  why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ms application  form for the store card. It has a separate  section for 
PPI and within that section there were equally prominent Yes and No boxes that needed to 
be ticked to either accept or decline the PPI. The Yes box has been ticked  on Mrs Ms form. 
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mrs Ms recollection of 
the sale has faded. Based on the layout  and wording of the form I think that Mrs M would 
have known that she had a choice  about  buying  the PPI. It seems to me that Mrs M decided 
to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even  if she no longer remembers doing so.
FICL didnt  advise Mrs M to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her needs. 
But it did need to provide  enough information for Mrs M to make an informed choice  about  
whether or not the policy was right for her.
Mrs M would  have  received up to 26 weeks full pay from her job if she was off sick. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than she would have 
received full pay for. And Mrs M didnt  have any other means, such as savings, to fall back 
on. Overall I think that Mrs M had a need  for the policy and could  have benefitted from it at 
what would  have been a difficult time.
Its possible that FICL could have  provided more information about the policy,  particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs M wasnt affected by any of those things. As I 
think that Mrs M had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont  think  that better  
information would have caused  her to change her mind. So Mrs M isnt any worse off as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.  So there is nothing that FICL needs to do to 
put things right.
Ref: DRN02138232my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0213823