K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that she was given  inappropriate advice by an appointed representative of 
Sesame Limited in 1998.
background
Mrs S was given advice by an appointed representative of Sesame. So although  she had no 
dealings with Sesame  directly, Sesame was responsible for the advice that Mrs S was given. 
And for ease I will refer to Sesame, rather than the appointed  representative, throughout. 
Mrs S has been helped in making her complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But, also for ease, I will refer to all communication  regarding  the complaint as having been 
with, and from, Mrs S directly.
Mrs S held pension savings with a provider  I will call E. In 1998 she was given advice by 
Sesame to move those savings to another provider that I will call A. As a result  of moving 
those pension savings  Mrs S paid an early  surrender charge to E. And she made  a 
commission payment to Sesame of 5.5%  of her pension value for the advice she was given. 
Mrs S left her pension savings with A until, in April 2006, moving  them to a third provider 
I will call S, shortly before she retired. She purchased an annuity  with those pension savings 
in November 2006.
Mrs S says that the advice to move  her pension savings to E was inappropriate. She says 
there was no reason  for that transfer  to take place and she has lost out as a result. Mrs Ss 
complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He agreed that the advice given to 
Mrs S had been inappropriate and so he asked Sesame to pay Mrs S some compensation.
Sesame responded  by saying that it was discussing  the matter with its insurers.  It didnt 
confirm whether or not it accepted our adjudicators findings. However more recently 
Sesame has told us that it hasnt made any offer to Mrs S to resolve the complaint. So, as 
the complaint  hasnt  been resolved informally, it has been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mrs S accepts  my decision it is legally binding  
on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
The advice that Mrs S is complaining about was given over 20 years ago. So it isnt entirely 
surprising we might not have full details of exactly what happened. Where  the evidence  is 
unclear or there are conflicts I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities.  
In other  words I have  looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding 
circumstances, to help me decide  what I think is more likely to have  happened.
I havent seen  a copy of the advice that Mrs S was given in 1998. But, since Mrs S recalls  
that her pension was moved to A following a meeting with her husbands financial advisor, 
I think it is reasonable to conclude  that Sesame provided the advice that induced  Mrs S to 
make that transfer. And since I havent  seen the advice that Mrs S was given I dont  know 
the basis on which Sesame concluded that the transfer would be advantageous  to Mrs S. So 
Ref: DRN00590512in order to decide the complaint I think it is reasonable for me to consider, excluding the 
benefit of hindsight where possible, whether this transfer was in Mrs Ss best interests.
The pension plan that Mrs S held with E had been opened following the transfer  of some 
benefits from a former occupational scheme.  So it didnt offer her any of the valuable 
benefits that we might  see in an occupational  pension such as a guaranteed future annuity 
rate. But the pension plan that Mrs S held was offered on the basis that its normal  annual 
administration charges were waived.  So that would be something  that Sesame needed to 
take into account when looking at the transfer.
I have seen that Mrs Ss pension savings were invested when they were with E across a 
range of equity  investments and managed funds. The funds that were offered by E appear to 
be broadly similar to those that Mrs S was able to utilise  when she moved  her pension to A. 
So I havent seen  anything that makes  me think Mrs S needed  to move her pension  savings 
due to a proposed change  in investment strategy.
But, Mrs S moving her pension savings  from E to A did have a financial impact. Mrs S 
needed to pay an early withdrawal charge to E when the transfer  took place. This amounted 
to just over £1,800.  And she paid an advice  charge  to Sesame of 5.5% of the value of her 
pension savings  this charge amounted to approximately  £2,500.  And the new pension  plan 
that Mrs S took from A required her to pay annual charges of 1.1%  per annum.
So I cannot see any good reason why Mrs S might  have  been advised to move  her pension  
savings from E to A. The investments  she took with A shared a similar risk profile to those 
she held before. And Mrs S needed to pay significant additional costs, both at the time of the 
transfer and on an ongoing basis on her pension  savings. A significant  additional  return of 
Mrs Ss pension  savings  would have been needed to make  the transfer cost effective.
So I cannot conclude  that the advice Sesame gave to Mrs S in 1998 was appropriate.  It 
follows that I uphold  her complaint and direct Sesame to pay her some  compensation.
putting things right
My aim is to put Mrs S back into the same position  now that she would have been in if the 
transfer hadnt happened. To do that Sesame should;
Establish what Mrs Ss pension savings  would have  been worth at the date they were 
transferred from A to S in 2006  if they had remained invested in the same  funds with 
E. No deductions should be made  from the original  investment to reflect  either the 
early withdrawal  charge,  or the charge  paid to Sesame for the advice that was 
provided. This sum should be called (A).
Increase (A) by the investment return that Mrs S received for the period between  the 
funds transfer to S and her taking an annuity. This return has been  calculated  to be 
2.317% (£41,941.08/£40,991.13). This is value  (B)
Calculate the revised tax free cash Mrs S could have  taken  as B x 25% to give (C)
Calculate the tax free cash that Mrs S has lost out on as (C)-£10,485.27 (D)
Calculate the revised sum to be used to purchase an annuity as (B)-(C) to give (E)
The annuity purchased by Mrs Ss pension savings in November 2006 was 
£1,641.48 pa. Mrs S paid £31,455.81. So the effective rate was 5.218% (F)
Calculate the revised annuity that should have  been available to Mrs S from 
23 November 2006 as (E)x(F)=(G)
Ref: DRN00590513So the additional monthly annuity Mrs S would have received is ((G) - £1,641.48)/12
This sum should be multiplied by the number of months since  the annuity  was 
established. This will give the total gross  annuity  arrears due as at the date of 
calculation. If Mrs S is a non taxpayer this will be the balance of the annuity  due. If 
she is a tax payer then this should  be reduced by her current tax rate. (H)
In respect of future  loss Sesame should  use current  annuity rates  to establish the 
current cost of buying the shortfall in the annuity  at the current time. If appropriate 
make a deduction from that amount  to reflect Mrs Ss tax rate in retirement. The 
result is (J) a lump  sum due in respect of future  benefits.
Add (D), (H) and (J) to establish the total loss (K)
Interest* should  be added to the following amounts at a rate of 8% simple  per annum;
o(D) from 23 November 2006  to the date of settlement
o(G)  less income tax if appropriate - from the date each annuity payment fell 
due to the date of settlement
Sesame should  pay the sum calculated as (K) and the interest noted above to Mrs S.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sesame  to take off tax from this interest. Sesame  must  
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and direct  Sesame Limited  to put things 
right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0059051