K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2000 
alongside a credit card. Mr W says American  Express Services  Europe  Limited  (AMEX) 
mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr W says the PPI was bundled in automatically  with the credit card and that he was led to 
believe the policy was mandatory. But based on the evidence Ive seen I think AMEX  made  it 
clear that Mr W didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why he cant remember this. I say this having  seen a copy of part of his 
postal application  form for the credit card. This shows there was an option to tick a box to 
agree to the cover, but theres nothing to suggest Mr W had to tick this box in order  to get 
the credit. And this application was completed by Mr W in his own space and time,  so he 
made this decision  freely  and without  any involvement from AMEX, other than the provision  
of the form itself. Mr W signed and returned the application form, so I think this reflected 
what he wanted at the time. 
AMEX didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr W got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Mr W says he wasnt  given sufficient information  on the cost of the policy, and from the 
evidence Ive seen  I agree.  But the policy cost £0.66 per £100  of outstanding monthly 
balance and this wouldve  paid 5% of Mr Ws credit card balance  for up to 24 months if he 
was too sick to work or made redundant. And Mr W hasnt provided  any evidence  of sick pay 
or savings  which  he couldve used if he was suddenly unable  to work. So I think Mr W 
wouldve struggled to keep up his repayments  if he wasnt working.  And so I think he had a 
need for this cover  and I dont think better information about  the costs  wouldve put him off 
taking it out.    
Its also possible some  of the other information AMEX gave Mr W about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Mr W has also complained about the undisclosed  commission charged on his PPI premiums. 
AMEX has already offered to give Mr W back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it 
needs to do anything more. 
AMEX will make arrangements to pay Mr W now Ive issued my final decision.  
Ref: DRN08286862my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0828686