K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains about the clarity of information provided by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) in 
respect of a W-8BEN form she completed  and returned to it in 2017.
background
In 2017 Mrs F returned to HSBC a completed  W-8BEN form, replacing one she had 
submitted in 2014 and which was due to expire.
Due to how this form was completed by Mrs F (she having not completed  section 9 of it as 
she had done  in 2014)  she ended up paying tax on one or more US stocks  she held at 30% 
rather than 15%.
In 2018 Mrs F submitted  a new W-8BEN form with section 9 of it completed.  This meant 
that going forward she would only pay tax on one or more US stocks  she held at 15% rather 
than 30%.
Mrs F complained to HSBC. She said that the information it had provided her, with the 
W-8BEN form she needed to complete and return in 2017,  wasnt clear  and thats why she 
didnt complete section  9 and why she ended up paying tax of 30% rather than 15%. She 
also said that it should have been apparent  to HSBC that she had made  a mistake in the 
completion of the form and it shouldnt have processed it.
HSBC didnt uphold  Mrs Fs complaint. In summary it said it processed the form as 
completed by Mrs F and to have  queried  it, or returned it, would have constituted  tax advice,  
something that it was, and is, unable to give.
Unhappy with HSBCs response to her complaint Mrs F referred it to us where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator considered  the complaint and 
concluded that the guidance provided  by HSBC with the form wasnt  misleading and HSBC 
had done nothing wrong in processing Mrs Fs W-8BEN form as submitted, rather  than 
querying it or returning it.
Mrs F didnt  agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same overall outcome as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
There is also very little I can usefully add to what  has already been  said.
I would also add that Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed  to take it on board and think  about  it but because I dont think  I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN06567742I accept that maybe  HSBCs guidance could have been clearer.  But in order for to conclude 
that Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld, what Im required to decide isnt whether HSBCs 
guidance could  have been clearer but whether it was incorrect,  misleading or unclear.  And 
having considered HSBCs guidance, both section by section, and in its entirety (ie in the 
round) Im not persuaded this is the case.  I would also add that in coming  to this conclusion  
Ive had regard  to the fact that this wasnt the first time Mrs F had completed one of these 
forms, she having completed one in 2014  without any errors or omissions.
In support of her submissions, Mrs F has made  reference to instructions  issued  by the 
Department of the Treasury (Internal Revenue Service) to the requesters  of forms W-8BEN 
(ie HSBC,  amongst  others). But even if I was to conclude that these instructions placed 
HSBC under an obligation to do something, any breach of such  an obligation would, in my 
view, be a matter between HSBC and the Department of the Treasury,  not HSBC and Mrs F.
Finally I would also add that Im not persuaded that it would be either fair or reasonable to 
hold HSBC responsible for the loss Mrs F says she has suffered because it might, or might  
not, have made an error following Mrs F having made  one, an error Mrs F doesnt  dispute 
she made. Or that it would be fair or reasonable to hold HSBC responsible for the loss Mrs F 
says she has suffered when other avenues to recoup this loss are still open to Mrs F to 
explore.
I accept that Mrs F will be disappointed by my findings, but in summary, and in the particular 
circumstances of this case,  Im not persuaded that it would be appropriate for me to direct 
HSBC to pay Mrs F anything by way of financial compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0656774