K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Y have  complained about the premium  theyve been charged  by Royal  & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) for their home insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs Y have  had home  insurance with RSA for several years.  In 2017 their premium  
was £260.09.  During  that policy year they made  a claim  for accidental  damage to a sewer 
pipe.
When Mr and Mrs Y received their renewal quote  in May 2018, the premium had gone up to 
£374.78. They were  unhappy with the amount of the premium increase. Mr Y says the 
premium for buildings insurance had increased  by 47.4% and contents by 74.4%. They 
complained to RSA.
RSA said there were two main reasons for the premium increase. It said firstly  the accidental  
damage claim had affected  all parts of their policy which benefited from a no claims 
discount. It also said it had updated its risk models  and that meant its view of the risk 
presented by Mr and Mrs Y had changed for the worse.
Mr and Mrs Y brought their complaint to this service.  They dont think its fair for RSA to 
increase the premium for their contents cover because  of a buildings claim. They also 
think the amount  of the premium increase is excessive. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  
the complaint.  He was satisfied the increase  was in line with RSAs internal guidelines.
As Mr and Mrs Y didnt agree, the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant tell RSA how much it should  charge Mr and Mrs Y for their home insurance. Thats for 
it to decide, based in part on the risk it thinks there is of them needing to make  a claim and 
its wider commercial requirements. It will also factor  in its administration  costs and profit  
requirements. What I can do however, when a consumer complains about the price he or 
shes been charged, is look at whether the insurer  has treated them  fairly  and whether  it can 
explain why its charged the price  it has. I can then explain to the consumer that Ive 
checked the price  theyve  been charged  and confirm if Im satisfied that theyve been treated 
fairly and in line with the way that the insurer would have treated all its other customers  with 
similar circumstances.
During the course of our investigation into Mr and Mrs Ys complaint, RSA has provided us 
with confidential,  business sensitive information  about how their renewal premium was 
calculated. Unfortunately I cant share that information with Mr and Mrs Y. Thats  because  
its commercially sensitive.  But I would like to reassure them that Ive checked the 
information very carefully. And having done  so I can see the reasons their premium  
increased in 2018.
Firstly Mr and Mrs Ys premium went up because  theyd  lost three of their five years no 
claims discount which amounted to 15%.  Ive looked at their policy  wording. It gave them the 
Ref: DRN04570142option of protecting their no claims discount. Mr and Mrs Y chose not to do that. Their policy 
said that if they didnt protect their no claims discount:
For each claim that you make  in an insurance period, your no claims discount  will be 
reduced by three years.
It also said:
Any claims under the Buildings, Buildings  Accidental Damage, Contents, Contents 
Accidental Damage,  Personal Possessions, Student Cover,  Pedal Cycle or Garden Options 
will affect your no claims discount.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Y dont think its fair for RSA to increase the premium for their 
contents cover because of a buildings claim.  But their no claims discount isnt applied  
separately to each of the different types  of cover provided by their policy  its one discount 
applying to all cover that can benefit from a no claims  discount. In Mr and Mrs Ys case  that 
meant their buildings, contents,  accidental damage  and unspecified personal possessions  
cover was all affected by the reduction  in the discount. I dont think  RSA treated them  
unfairly in that respect.
Secondly there were  generic changes to RSAs risk model that would have affected all 
RSAs customers whose  circumstances  were similar to Mr and Mrs Ys. Its up to RSA how 
it chooses to assess  particular risks. That means over time its view of the same customer  
can change. In this case  RSA has seen  an increa se in escape  of wate r claims  and so 
changed its rating of Mr and Mrs Y to take into account the number of bathrooms they have. 
This explains much of the increase in their contents  cover.
I appreciate that such a large percentage increase in premium  must have come as an 
unpleasant surprise  to Mr and Mrs Y. But, from what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs Y havent been 
unfairly treated  by RSA or singled  out in any way. The insurance  contract  is an annual one 
and consumers arent obliged to accept  the renewal terms theyre  offered  if theyre  unhappy 
with them.  Im satisfied RSA has applied its internal pricing policy  fairly in calculating the 
premium payable by Mr and Mrs Y and I can see no grounds for saying it should reduce 
this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0457014