K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Legal & General  Insurance Limited  (L&G)  voided (cancelled 
back to the start) their home insurance policy. Theyve also complained  about the service  
they received  from L&Gs  claims  handler.  References to L&G in this decision include  its 
claims handler.
background
In 2017 Mr and Mrs M applied for insurance  online through a price  comparison website. 
They told L&G about two claims for damage  to Mrs Ms property in 2015 and 2016. They say 
they forgot  to disclose  a claim for malicious damage that Mr M had made earlier  in 2017.
Later in 2017  they made a claim on the policy. L&G found out about  the third claim and 
voided the policy. It said it wouldnt have agreed to cover them  if it had known about the third 
claim.
Mr and Mrs M complained to L&G. They said theyd made a genuine mistake. They  were  
unhappy that their policy  had been  voided and that theyd have to disclose  this when taking 
out insurance in future. They also complained that theyd  had to chase L&G and had to wait 
for the premium to be refunded.
L&G accepted that Mr and Mrs M had made  a genuine mistake but wouldnt change the 
decision to void the policy. It apologised for service  issues and paid Mr and Mrs M £50 
compensation for this.
They brought their complaint to this service. Our adjudicator didnt uphold  the complaint. He 
didnt think L&G had treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly  because, although theyd made an 
honest mistake, L&G was entitled to void the policy in law because it would never have sold 
them the policy if it had known about the third claim.
As Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, the matter  has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA), its the duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to the insurer. Matters to be taken  into account in deciding whether the 
consumer has taken  reasonable  care include how clear  and specific the insurers questions  
were.
Here the question asked was Have you had any incidents at home,  or made  any home  
insurance claims in the last 5 years? I think that was clear  and unambiguous.  
Mr and Mrs M answered yes  and gave details of the first two claims. Unfortunately they 
overlooked the third claim. They admit this was a mistake. I think  this was a careless 
misrepresentation. 
Ref: DRN04748332CIDRA sets out what an insurer can do in those circumstances. It says: If the insurer  would 
not have entered into the consumer insurance  contract on any terms, the insurer may avoid  
the contract  and refuse all claims,  but must  return the premiums paid.
For this policy L&G has shown us its underwriting criteria which  are that it wouldnt have 
entered into the contract where there  were  two or more claims within  the last 3 years 
and/or the total value of those claims was over £2,500 . Mr and Mrs M disclosed  two claims  
totalling  £2,000.  I dont  know  why L&G accepted  that. It may have  been  because  the 
claims  were  under  the £2,500  limit.  But the fact is that Mr and Mrs M had actually  made  
three  claims  in that period  totalling  over £3,000  and that was definitely  unacceptable  to 
L&G.  So Im satisfied  that L&G wouldnt have issued the policy  if Mr and Mrs M had given 
the right answer  to the question.
So overall I think that L&G acted reasonably in voiding Mr and Mrs Ms policy  and declining 
their claim.
I appreciate that the voidance of their policy might well cause Mr and Mrs M some difficulties 
when taking out insurance in future. We dont regulate insurers,  or tell them what  sort of 
questions they should ask. All I can say is that, depending on the question, they should  
disclose the cancellation, and explain the circumstances behind it. That applies to both of 
them since  Mr and Mrs M were joint policyholders.
Ive also looked  at how L&G handled  the matter. I can understand that it would have  been  
inconvenient for Mrs M to have to keep chasing  L&G for information  on the claim and not to 
be called  back,  as promised. But I think the amount  of £50 offered by L&G is sufficient to 
compensate her for the inconvenience caused.  
There was a short delay  in L&G reaching its decision to void the policy.  But this is a serious 
step for an insurer to take, so in my view its not unreasonable for it to take time to make 
sure the right decision is reached. I can see that Mr and Mrs M were notified of the decision 
promptly and the premium refund was processed shortly afterwards. I dont think L&G 
treated Mr and Mrs M unreasonably in this respect.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0474833