K821x#15complaint
Mr K is unhappy that QBE  UK Limited  hasnt paid the loss of rent he claimed under his 
property owners insurance policy.
background
Mr K owns  a ground floor flat. It was let out to a tenant. In January 2015  part of the ceiling in 
the living room  collapsed. This was due to a water leak from the flat above.
A claim  was made to the buildings insurer. There was some delay in carrying  out repairs. In 
the meantime  the tenant said he couldnt use the front room and had to make  sure his 
children didnt go in there.  Because of that the tenant refused to pay the rent due in February 
and March and indicated that he wouldnt pay the rent due in April either.
Mr K says he felt he had no choice but to carry out the repairs to the ceiling himself. He did 
that in April 2015 and made a claim to QBE  for the cost of the works being £1,500 and two 
months loss of rent totalling  £2,050.
QBE paid Mr K for the repairs in June 2015. It said it wouldnt  pay his loss of rent because 
the tenants were  able to carry on living at the property.  In March 2018  it offered him £500 
towards his loss on a goodwill basis.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint. An 
extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
It doesnt  appear to be in dispute that Mr K suffered loss of rent totalling £2,050. The 
question for me to decide is whether QBE should have accepted his claim for this amount 
and/or pay all or part of that sum for another reason.
Mr Ks policy  covers  him for loss of rent but only:
if the buildings are rendered uninhabitable  directly as a result of physical loss or damage
occurring during the period  of insurance  .
I can see from photos that the living  room  was covered with broken  plaster  from the ceiling. I 
can understand the tenant being  concerned  that further plaster might fall down and injure 
people if he and his family used that room before the ceiling was repaired.  But for whatever  
reason the tenant and his family carried on living in the property. The other  rooms,  including 
the kitchen and bathroom, could  be lived in. While it was no doubt very inconvenient for the 
tenant, the property  wasnt  uninhabitable and was in fact lived in during the period in 
question.
For that reason  I think QBEs interpretation  of the policy wording is correct.
Ive also looked  at how QBE handled Mr Ks claim. The damage happened on 11 January 
2015. Mr K obtained two estimates for the repairs which he sent to QBE  later that month. 
QBE doesnt appear to have responded regarding those. But it did send its own builder to 
the property on 5 February 2015  to provide an estimate. Mr K heard nothing more  from QBE 
in the following weeks.
Ref: DRN04149652Understandably the tenant became increasingly  impatient about the delay.  In a letter to Mr K 
dated 31 March  2015 his letting agent explained  that the tenant had stopped paying the rent 
because they were frustrated with the delay in repairing the ceiling.  The letting agent said 
the tenant had adamantly  refused to pay the rent despite our best efforts.
In my opinion it wasnt reasonable of QBE to delay dealing with Mr Ks claim for several 
weeks when it knew his tenant felt strongly  that his living conditions  were unacceptable.  
I think if Mr K had been able to show his tenant soon  after the damage happened  that the 
insurer would arrange or authorise repairs promptly, then the tenant would probably not have 
stopped paying the rent. As it was, withholding rent payments was one of the few options 
open to the tenant to try to get the matter resolved quickly.
Because of that I think QBE should  settle  Mr Ks claim for loss of rent with interest from the 
date the rent payments  were due to the date of payment.
Mr K accepted my provisional decision. QBE  didnt accept it. It thought  having  to pay loss of 
rent and interest was disproportionate and punitive.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to punish or fine QBE for bad practice. But I am able to require it to 
pay compensation to Mr K in recognition of the impact its poor handling of the matter has 
had on him. In my view,  QBEs delay in dealing  with Mr Ks claim led to his tenant not paying 
the rent. In the circumstances I dont  think Mr K could reasonably have been expected to 
take action to recover the unpaid rent. So in order to treat him fairly I think  QBE  should 
reimburse Mr K for the amount he lost as a result of its delay. I also think its fair that QBE 
should pay interest on that amount  since Mr K hasnt had the use of the money from the date 
each rent payment was originally due. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require QBE UK Limited to pay Mr K £2,050  with simple interest* 
at the rate of 8% a year from the date the rent payments were due to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*If QBE UK Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a certificate showing 
this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0414965