K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Revolut Ltd debited a duplicate payment from her account with 
another bank  without  her authority.
background
On 3 June 2019 Miss H topped up her Revolut account with £100 using her MasterCard, 
which had been  issued by another bank. Ill refer to this bank as M. On 6 June 2019 she 
noticed that £200 had debited her account with M. But only £100  had credited her Revolut 
account. So, she contacted Revolut via the in-app chat to query what  had happened. She 
also made a complaint to Revolut at the same time. 
Revolut told Miss H that an additional  £100  had debited her account with M due to a 
technical problem  it was experiencing with MasterCard. It said it was aware of the problem 
and that there were  other  customers also affected.  Revolut  apologised  for what happened.  
And it told Miss H that its technical team were endeavouring  to determine the root cause of 
the issue and trying to resolve the problem  as soon as possible. 
Revolut issued its final response to Miss Hs complaint later that day in which  it reiterated  
that it was continuing to investigate the problem. It also said the additional payment that had 
debited Miss Hs account with M had been returned but it could take some  time for it to credit  
her account  with M.
Miss H wasnt  happy about the fact that Revolut had debited  £200 from her account  with M. 
And she also wasnt happy with how it had dealt  with her complaint. So she referred her 
complaint to our service for an independent  review. She said Revolut had issued its final 
response to her complaint very shortly after she had submitted  it. She thought this 
demonstrated that it hadnt properly  investigated  what happened or taken her concerns 
seriously. And she thought she should  be paid compensation  to reflect the distress  and 
inconvenience she suffered.  
After our investigator looked into what happened  they didnt uphold  Miss Hs complaint. They 
thought that Revolut had acted promptly in trying  to resolve what  happened.  And they 
thought the apology that Revolut had made sufficiently recognised  the trouble and upset 
Miss H was caused. Ultimately, they didnt think Revolut needed to do anything  more here. 
But Miss H disagreed with our investigators view and asked for her compliant to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised  the events of this complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy 
by this - it just reflects the informal  nature  of our service. Ive concentrated on what  I think 
are the key issues. I can assure Miss H and Revolut that Ive read everything that they have 
provided. So if Ive not mentioned something  its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont  think I need to comment on it in order to reach what  I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Ref: DRN01623622Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Miss H experienced here.  Its clear  from the 
information shes provided our service  that she isnt happy with the way in which Revolut 
dealt with her complaint  about it debiting a £200 from her account  with M. But as our 
investigator told Miss H, strictly speaking, we dont have the power  to look at how financial 
businesses deal with complaint handling   as its not a regulated activity under the legislation  
that governs our service. So, even if I did think Revolut hadnt done things well in this regard, 
I wouldnt be able to uphold that element of her concerns or make an award. I cant  act 
outside the law. So, I wont spend  any time in this decision on that. Ill deal solely with 
whether Revolut acted  fairly and reasonably in offering to put things right for Miss H after it 
debited two payments  from her account  with M. 
In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. I realise that what happened  
must have  been  extremely frustrating.  But I think  that once Revolut was aware  of the 
problem, it acted promptly and correctly in accepting responsibility.  I say this because  at the 
outset Revolut explained that this error  was caused  by a technical  issue it was experiencing 
with MasterCard. From  the evidence Ive seen, Revolut didnt delay or protract matters when 
it investigated what happened here.  Miss H said Revolut  returned the additional  £100  that 
was taken from her account with M on or around 6 June 2019. This was the date she raised 
her complaint with Revolut. So, Im satisfied Revolut took immediate  action to reimburse  
Miss H the same  day she made it aware  of the duplicate payment. I think  Revolut did all it 
could to promptly resolve the error  it made quickly and proactively.
Ive no doubt this was all inconvenient to Miss H. So Ive thought carefully about whether an 
award of compensation is justified here. When deciding  what potential  compensation to 
award I must  take two things into account:  financial loss as a result of any business error 
and non-financial loss, including  inconvenience and upset. 
When considering  awards  for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to 
calculate awards for particular errors.  Its my role to consider what  impact  the banks actions 
have had on the consumer and to decide,  within guidelines set by our service, whether 
compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Ive thought about whether Miss H suffered a financial loss as a result of what  happened.  
She didnt  have access to the additional £100 that Revolut debited from her account with M 
until the funds  were returned  to her. And she said that during that time she lost out on the 
interest her money would have earned had it remained in her account  with M. But shes  
chosen not to provide evidence of that loss to our service. And without evidence I cant  make 
an award to reflect any financial  loss that Miss H says she incurred.
Ive gone on to consider whether an award of compensation is appropriate to reflect the 
inconvenience Miss H said she was caused by what happened. She said she had to contact 
Revolut to get the additional £100 refunded and I recognise  that she spent some time in 
trying to understand why an additional  payment had debited her account with M. She also 
said made three journeys to M, which each lasted 90 minutes. And she contacted it by 
telephone twice. I can understand how inconvenient that all was. 
But while I appreciate the frustration Miss H must  have felt having had an additional £100 
debited from her account with M Im pleased to see that this money was returned  to her 
promptly  as Ive outlined already. I can see why she may feel Revolut should compensate  
her for the trouble  and upset she was caused. But we arent here to punish businesses  and, 
to put things right, Id have asked  Revolut to apologise for what happened  here.  Its already  
Ref: DRN01623623done this and, while Miss H may disagree  with me, Im satisfied that this fairly recognises the 
impact this all had on her. 
Miss H has raised a number of legal points as to why she thinks  an apology  isnt a legal 
remedy. But this service  is a quick and informal alternative to the courts. So the way in which 
we approach remedies may be different to how a court  might  look at this complaint. Overall, I 
agree with our investigator that what  happened  and the impact  it had doesnt  warrant an 
award of compensation here.  
I appreciate that Miss H feels  very strongly  about the issues raised in this complaint  and Ive 
carefully considered  everything shes said. But I think  Revolut did all it can to resolve this 
dispute. So, Im not going to ask it to do anymore here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0162362