K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Nationwide  Building Society  acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
dealing with a mortgage application he made  in 2013. He wants  compensation.
background
Mr I applied to remortgage  with property with Nationwide through a broker in February 2019. 
The application was initially  accepted, and then declined. Nationwide said that the 
information given  by Mr I about his employment history had a discrepancy. Mr I provided  
information from his employer (with whom hed been employed for over 15 years)  and his 
application was then successful. 
Mr I complained to Nationwide, saying it had caused him stress and shouldve  asked him for 
evidence in the first place  rather  than declining his application. It said the application was 
declined due to the discrepancy  with the employment history information  provided previously 
when Mr I made an unsuccessful application in 2013. Nationwide said the decision was then 
successfully appealed as Mr I got a letter from his current employer  which was satisfactory.
Mr I complained to us. The investigators  view was that Nationwide  needed more  information 
about Mr Is employment  history and told Mr Is broker. She noted that Mr Is employer for 
whom he worked in 2013 was a limited company that dissolved in 2016, but Mr I had said in 
2019 that hed worked  for someone else for 13 years. The investigator  said that while  the 
employment continued, it looked  as if the identity of the employer changed; it wasnt  just a 
name change. She accepted that Mr I mightnt  have realised this but it was fair and 
reasonable for Nationwide  to ask questions  about it. The investigator said that Nationwides  
process was to decline the application and explain the position to the broker, which  is what  it 
did in Mr Is case. She said it was reasonable to expect the broker to explain the issue to 
Mr I and help him appeal. The complaint wasnt upheld.
Mr I disagreed. He said Nationwide shouldve asked for further information before declining  
the application, and that his broker hadnt  been  told what the issue was. Nationwide  said that 
the broker was informed by the relevant contact at Nationwide. The investigator said that it 
was appropriate  to inform Mr I through his broker of the problem, and Nationwide didnt have 
to be specific about the issue, particularly if fraud is suspected. She noted that this service  
couldnt change  a business process and it was common to decline in these circumstances. 
The investigator also said there was nothing wrong with a lender looking at previous 
applications to check consistency.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders are able to set up processes  in deal with mortgage applications  and are required to 
carefully consider  all loan applications. It isnt unfair or unreasonable  to consider what a 
consumer has previously  told a lender, and could be regarded essential to detecting  
mortgage fraud.
Ref: DRN03724472In Mr Is case, I accept that he gave  information that he believed  to be correct. But it did 
conflict what hed previously told Nationwide  in 2013. I think  its more likely than not that 
what happened was that his employment  continued  but the identity of his employer changed, 
but on the face of the information held by Nationwide, there  was a discrepancy. Its process 
is to decline applications  in such circumstances; while I appreciate  this isnt nice from a 
consumer perspective,  it isnt unfair  or unreasonable. Declines can be appealed, and this is 
what happened in Mr Is case.
Mr Is broker was told of the decline and the issue  the contact notes made at the time by 
Nationwide shows this happened. And I can see Mr I managed to provide the further 
information Nationwide wanted, which shows that he was told what  was needed to proceed.  
Upon review of that information, Nationwide let the application be reinstated, which  was fair 
and reasonable.  
Mr I says Nationwide shouldve contacted him before the decline,  but that isnt Nationwides 
process (and this service cant require a lender to change their processes). And in any 
event, Mr I was represented by a broker  Nationwide has to deal with the broker. I note that 
Mr I tried to speak  to Nationwide direct but failed the security check; Nationwide acted fairly 
and reasonably in refusing to give him information  in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or reject  my decision before 17 
October 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0372447