K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy about information Barclays Bank Plc reported  on his credit  file in 2017 in 
relation to a loan plan.
background
Mr Ds given us a lot of information  about  his personal circumstances. Id like to reassure 
him that Ive read everything hes told us, but I wont go into any details about  it in this 
decision to protect his privacy.
This all goes back to 2016 when Barclays changed  the way it charged its customers for 
using their overdrafts. Mr D says the new way of charging would have left him significantly 
worse off, so he contacted Barclays to discuss his options.
Mr D was referred to the financial assistance team who proposed he set up a Resolve  loan 
which would be used  to repay his overdraft  and existing Barclays loan. The Resolve loan 
would be interest-free, and following discussions about the possible  impact it would have on 
his credit file, Mr D agreed to go ahead  as he was satisfied the impact would be minimal.
Before the Resolve loan could be set up Barclays wanted Mr D to maintain  a three-month  
payment plan (the first plan)  so it could be sure the new Resolve loan would be affordable. 
The first plan was set up to run from January  until April 2017. Unfortunately  at the end of the 
three-month term Mr D lost his job so he couldnt  set up the follow-on Resolve loan.
Mr D contacted Barclays to let it know what had happened and it agreed to place a 30-day  
breathing space hold on Mr Ds overdraft and loan accounts. At the end of the 30 days  a 
further hold was agreed as whilst  Mr D had got a new job, he wouldnt be paid for a while.
In July 2017 a new three-month plan (the second plan)  was set up to again check 
affordability. This time the second plan completed successfully and Mr D entered  into the 
Resolve loan in October  2017.
Mr D has had a few complaints with Barclays  as different things had gone wrong, such  as 
incurring overdraft charges during the hold, and the second plan failing due to a banking 
error. I mention these  only for completeness as theyre not the subject of this complaint.
This complaint is just about the information Barclays reported  on Mr Ds credit file between 
January and September 2017;  that is the period covering the two plans, and the hold period 
in between.
Barclays didnt uphold  the main thrust of Mr Ds complaint, but it did offer £200  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to Mr D throughout the process, 
and for the time it had taken  to provide its answer to the complaint.
Once the complaint had come to us Barclays said it had reviewed the information provided  
to the credit  reference  agencies and said the feed wasnt  accurate. It said it would manually 
amend the information it provided  to show Mr D was in an arrangement to pay (ATP)  
between January and April 2017 and during  July and August 2017.
Our investigator thought that was fair and said Barclays didnt have to do any more  than that. 
Mr O didnt agree and so it was passed  to me decide.
Ref: DRN04320682Upon reviewing the complaint I didnt think Barclays had done  enough  to make it clear to 
Mr D what the hold meant in terms of the information that would be recorded  on his credit 
file. I asked that Barclays provide further  information  to show  that had been explained, and if 
not said I would be minded to order Barclays to mark  the May and June 2017 payments  as 
being in an ATP as well.
Barclays agreed to amend Mr Ds credit  file feed to show those two months  as also being in 
an ATP and so we put that offer to Mr D.
Mr D, whilst welcoming  the amendment to his credit file information, said he wanted 
compensation for the trouble and upset  hed been caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr Ds set out his account in considerable 
detail. I trust he wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have.  Ours is an informal dispute resolution  service, and Ive concentrated on what  
I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr D but although Ive read and considered  the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
Barclays has now agreed to mark the May and June 2017 payments as being in an ATP  
as well as amending the feed for January to April 2017 and July and August 2017.  This 
means Mr Ds credit  reference feed from Barclays will show  he was in an ATP from 
January 2017  until September  2017,  after which the original loan (and overdraft) will show  as 
having been closed and the new Resolve loan opened. That seems reasonable and what I 
would have ordered Barclays to do had it not already agreed to do so.
That leaves the issue of compensation. I understand Mr D feels  further compensation is 
warranted to take into account the stress and suffering that was caused to him.
Ive considered this element of Mr Ds complaint very carefully  and Im not persuaded that 
further compensation should be paid (on top of the £250 and £200 offered in the September 
and November 2017 letters from Barclays respectively). I understand why Mr D feels  further 
compensation should be due as he sees this as an error  on the part of Barclays  that he has 
suffered because of. But its not that straightforward.
What I need to consider is if Barclays actually misled Mr D about  what would show on his 
credit file for May and June 2017 whilst  the hold was in place. Having  done  so it seems this 
was a genuine misunderstanding rather than misinformation given by Barclays.  Barclays 
didnt give wrong  information to Mr D, it just stayed silent and unfortunately Mr D didnt ask 
(as, understandably, hes said he didnt think he needed to). Had Mr D asked the question 
and been given misinformation by Barclays then Id be ordering a payment of compensation. 
But as this was instead simply a misunderstanding  with Barclays not commenting either way 
then I cant fairly award compensation  for that.
Ref: DRN04320683my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and order Barclays Bank Plc to show Mr D as in an ATP for 
May and June 2017 as well as the previous manual adjustment  it had already said it would 
make. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0432068