K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss F says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 2002 it was sold 
during a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Miss F aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  I dont know for certain what was said at the time the policy was sold,  
but FICL  has provided a copy of Miss Fs store card application form. 
Miss F signed separately  from agreeing to take out the card to take PPI. As Miss F was 
agreeing to an important financial  commitment I would  have expected  her to have read over 
the form before signing in agreement with it. So I think its likely FICL made it clear that 
Miss F didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss F so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss F got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. Miss F has told us she was entitled  to generous  sick pay from her employer when she 
took the PPI, so she didnt need the policy. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
Miss Fs sick pay and for longer than she would have received  full pay. So I still think  the PPI 
could have been useful to her.
 
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Fs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Miss F has also said that her job may have made it difficult for her to make a claim but I cant 
see anything to suggest this would be the case. So this point doesnt change my decision.
Ref: DRN09367322my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0936732