K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that a payment on Mr Cs debit card, which  draws  on their joint 
account with Bank  of Scotland Plc (BoS), was declined. Mrs C made  the payment instead.  
Mr Cs card was then blocked because BoS couldnt contact him. Mr C said this caused  
embarrassment and inconvenience. 
background
Mr C tried to pay some  money to a hotel chain, using his card.  The payment was blocked, 
and Mrs C made the payment instead.  BoS tried to contact  Mr C by phone at this time, but it 
didnt have an up to date number for him. Because it couldnt get in touch with him, it 
blocked his card. Mr C said he discovered this a couple of days  later, when  his card didnt 
work again. The circumstances of this second refusal caused him embarrassment and 
inconvenience. 
Mr C said it was BoSs fault his card had been  blocked. He said that there  was no reason to 
block the first transaction, especially as Mrs C had been able to pay the same  amount on her 
card. And he said that BoS hadnt made any effort  to keep its contact information for him up 
to date, so it was also BoSs fault that it couldnt  get in touch. He thought it shouldve written 
to him or emailed him instead, when it couldnt reach him on the phone. 
Mr C said that he thought what BoS had done  was a breach of the duty to treat customers  
fairly and a breach of the relevant code. 
BoS didnt think  it had done  anything  wrong.  It said that the first transaction Mr C was trying 
to make was picked up for further  checks. BoS tried to contact  Mr C by phone  then, but 
because it couldnt  get through, the transaction was declined and Mr Cs card was blocked. 
Thats why the second transaction was also declined. 
BoS said that the same transaction for Mrs C didnt  require any checks.  And it was Mr Cs 
responsibility to keep his contact  details up to date. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She didnt think it was for our service to tell 
BoS which payments  should be blocked,  or how to communicate with its customers. She 
thought it was Mr Cs responsibility to make sure that BoS had a valid,  up to date number for 
him. She also said its for BoS to decide  which payments are flagged, and it hadnt flagged  
the same  payment from Mrs C. 
Our investigator realised  that Mr C had faced embarrassment and inconvenience later,  when 
he realised his card was blocked.  But our investigator thought  that this wasnt because of 
something that BoS got wrong. It had explained to him when he contacted  it, why the block 
had been put onto his account. And it had unblocked the account  quickly then. 
Our investigator didnt  think that BoS had breached  duties to treat Mr C fairly, or the relevant 
code. 
 
Mr C didnt think wed adjudicated fairly.  He said that we hadnt got an explanation  from BoS 
about why his card was blocked, but Mrs Cs wasnt. He said wed accepted it was fair to 
block his card, but make no attempt to contact  him. And he said wed not mentioned BoSs 
failure to respond  to his complaint. He didnt think the bank should be able to hide behind  
security concerns. He wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN07198512Our investigator didnt  think our service should look at whether these payments shouldve 
been treated the same. And BoS had tried to contact  Mr C, by phone. She said Mr C could 
complain about  which  payments  BoS blocked,  and whether it should block cards, to the 
FCA. She thought BoS had responded to his complaint. Shed forwarded that letter  to him.
Mr C said that it was our role to look at whether hed been treated fairly.  He didnt think  that 
was for the FCA. And he didnt accept that BoS had tried to contact him. He said it shouldve  
emailed or written. He felt it was unreasonable not to get evidence as to why his transaction  
was first blocked but his wifes was not. So he still wanted an ombudsman to consider  this 
complaint. It was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
The first part of Mr Cs complaint is that a transaction was rejected. Mrs C then made the 
same transaction on her card with no difficulties.  I dont  think that means that the failed 
transaction on Mr Cs card was wrong or unfair.  
The assessments  that banks make about whether an individual  transaction  is likely to be 
genuine or not are made on the basis of a large number of variables. And they are, of 
course, made very quickly. Id expect there to be some false  positives. 
Decisions about  which transactions a bank chooses  to block arent  entirely outside of our 
services remit.  But I dont  think that one false positive, on Mr Cs account,  and then no false  
positive on Mrs Cs account,  is unfair, or unreasonable.
Mr C doesnt think BoS did enough  to try to get in touch with him. But it has shown  us that it 
did try to call him. I dont think that BoS is solely or even primarily responsible for making 
sure that it has an up to date number  for Mr C. I think thats mainly Mr Cs responsibility. He 
hadnt done that, and BoS wasnt able to get in touch. 
Mr C says BoS shouldve  kept trying  to get in touch, either by email or by letter.  But I think  
its important to remember that BoS had tried to contact Mr C by the most  secure  method it 
had, a phone call where it could verify Mr Cs identity. It wasnt  able to do that. I dont think 
BoS had to send an email  about this issue, as this form of communication isnt usually 
secure. 
I do think it wouldve been helpful  if BoS had written to Mr C, even  if just to ask him to update 
his phone number,  rather than relying on him to get in touch because it had blocked his card.  
I appreciate that this is the standard of service that Mr C would like. But my role is to see if 
BoS has behaved unfairly or unreasonably. I cant simply require  it to improve.  
I also have to bear in mind that Mr C told us he spoke to BoS about the block relatively 
quickly after the first transaction was blocked.  Even  if BoS had written to him, it may not 
have made  any difference, because he may not have received this letter  before the second 
declined transaction.  
Ref: DRN07198513Mr C said he faced embarrassment and inconvenience when a second  transaction was 
declined. I appreciate that this wouldve been  unpleasant for Mr C. But I dont think it was 
inappropriate for BoS to take the step of blocking his card, once it had unresolved  security 
concerns on his account. And once he did contact  it, BoS seems  both to have explained 
what had happened, and swiftly unblocked  his account, which is what  I would expect. 
I know that Mr C has been very unhappy  with the service hes received from BoS.  But I dont 
think its behaved unfairly or unreasonably  here, and I dont think  its breached its duties to 
him. Because of that, although I know Mr C will be disappointed, I dont think  this complaint 
should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0719851