K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2004. The complaint is that Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold the late Mr S the PPI. Mr S 
passed away in 2006, so this complaint is brought on behalf of his estate.
To keep  things simple,  and in the hope  his representatives dont mind, Ill refer to the late 
Mr S as Mr S throughout this decision.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint as they felt Capital One had presented  the PPI 
as optional to Mr S and hed chosen to take it out. The adjudicator also thought that, 
although Capital  One might not have told Mr S everything it shouldve done  about the PPI, 
they hadnt seen any evidence that the policy wouldnt have been useful for him and so this 
wouldnt have made a difference to his decision to take it out.  
Overall I agreed with the adjudicators assessment, but I wanted to explain my reasons in 
more detail and give Mr Ss representatives  another  chance to provide information  or 
evidence before making my final findings. 
I issued a provisional decision on 28 January 2019 explaining why I thought the complaint  
shouldnt be upheld. I attach a copy which forms part of this final decision.  
In this I explained that it was possible the information Capital One gave Mr S about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been   including the information about the exclusions relating 
to medical conditions present at the time of sale. And even though wed been  told that soon 
after the policy was taken out Mr S was off work sick and didnt return, wed not been  told 
that Mr S was suffering from a medical condition at the point  of sale. So I couldnt fairly and 
reasonably conclude that better information  about the PPI, and this exclusion in particular, 
wouldve put him off taking out the policy  as I hadnt been told that Mr S was suffering from 
a medical condition at the time.  
In my provisional decision I also decided that Capital One should pay back  to Mr S some  of 
the PPI to Mr Ss estate  because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about  that. Because Capital  One didnt tell 
Mr S, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out my reasons in my provisional  decision attached below and have summarised  those 
same reasons above.
Ref: DRN05850192None of the parties responded  with any comments for me to consider. So based  on my 
previous findings,  and in the absence of any new information, I see no reason  to change my 
mind about  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
PPI was mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe)  plc doesnt have to pay all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr Ss estate. 
But as stated, Capital  One (Europe) plc does have to pay to Mr Ss estate  any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium   as set out in my 
provisional decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Ss 
representatives to accept or reject my decision before  28 March 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in
2004. The complaint is that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold Mr S the PPI. Mr S passed away in 
2006, so this complaint is brought on behalf of his estate.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05850193Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr S case.
Based on what Ive seen so far I currently dont  think  the policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
This complaint centres around the argument that Capital One didnt mention  anything about  the PPI, 
and it just told Mr S where to sign. However, Capital One says this was a postal sale and that it had 
no interaction with Mr S at the time he completed his application.  And Ive seen the application  form 
Mr S completed and signed which was addressed to him and included instructions on how to send it 
back once completed. So from this I think its likely this was a postal sale. This means that Mr S 
wouldve been  able to read, consider and complete the application in his own space and time - and 
without any involvement from Capital  One.
In the application form there is a section titled Additional  Information where there are a number of 
options for Mr S to consider. I can see that he completed this section declining  all the options 
available  except PPI  where he ticked the yes box to agree to the policy. And I think  Mr S 
wouldve known he couldve said no to the PPI, as he did with the other optional products available. 
Mr S signed this agreement, so I think it reflected what he wanted at the time. And so based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think Capital One made  it clear  the PPI was optional and Mr S chose to take it 
out, knowing it was something  he didnt have to have.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt  have to check if the PPI was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide if the policy was right for 
him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been 
- including the information about the exclusion relating to medical conditions  present at the time of 
sale. Weve been told that soon after the policy  was sold Mr S was off work sick and didnt return. So 
we tried to get in touch with the representatives of Mr S estate to check  if he had a medical condition 
at the time of the sale, but weve not received  a response. In response to this provisional decision,  the 
representatives of Mr S estate can let me have  any information about  this theyd like me to think  
about. But based on what evidence we do have, I cant fairly and reasonably  conclude that Mr S had 
a condition at the time for which  he wouldnt have been able to claim  if he was off sick. So at this 
point, I dont  think  better information about this exclusion  wouldve made  a difference  to his decision 
to take out the policy.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr S circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so I think its likely the policy wouldve been 
useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So overall, I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
This means  Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S estate.
But Capital One will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S estate because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
Capital One has to pay to Mr S estate any commission and profit  share  it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium. Capital One should also pay to Mr S estate any extra interest Mr S paid because  
of that.
Ref: DRN05850194Capital One should re-work the credit card account  and pay to Mr S estate the difference between 
what Mr S owed and what he wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit share  it got hadnt been 
over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital  One should also pay Mr S estate
8%* simple  interest if he had paid off his credit card at some point.
*If Capital One deducts  tax of any kind it must  supply Mr S estate with a certificate  so that the representatives of
Mr S estate can discuss this with HMRC
I have seen in the information sent to Capital One when  this complaint was first brought by
Mr S estate, there is a suggestion he may have been insolvent at some stage. Its possible  this 
means some or all of the compensation may have to be paid to a third party.  In response to this 
provisional decision  I would  invite the representatives of Mr S estate to tell me any information about 
this that they have.
my provisional  decision
I currently dont think the PPI policy  was mis-sold  so I dont intend to tell Capital  One
(Europe) Plc to pay all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S estate.
But I do intend to tell Capital One (Europe) Plc to pay to Mr S estate any commission and profit  share  
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  as outlined above.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 11 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0585019