K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc (Barclays) blocked and closed his bank 
accounts, froze his funds and gave him poor customer service.
Mr H is bringing  this complaint on behalf of his business, M Limited.
background
In October  2018, Barclays blocked and closed Mr Hs accounts, and carried  out a review.
Mr H complained to Barclays, saying he wanted them  to release the money  held in his 
accounts. Barclays declined to do so until it had completed its review, which it did on 
21 December 2018.
Mr H went to his local branch the following  day to withdraw the money  in cash,  but the 
branch didnt have  enough cash available. For various reasons Mr H discussed with our 
investigator, Mr Hs visit to branch was rather fraught.  And, after a stressful  visit for Mr H, the 
branch arranged for him to collect  the cash from a nearby  branch  two days later
Although Barclays told Mr H it would be closing his accounts, they actually remained open 
(but blocked)  until 10 January 2019. Barclays issued its final response to Mr Hs complaint 
shortly after (18 January  2019).
It explained it had acted in accordance with the terms  and conditions of Mr Hs accounts, but 
declined to explain the reasons for its decision. But it did accept Mr H had received sub-
standard customer service, for which it apologised and offered him £150 in compensation.
Our investigator said that Barclays was entitled to close Mr Hs accounts,  and that it had 
made him aware it was doing  so. She did say Barclays  shouldve sent a letter confirming, but 
that the failure to issue a letter hadnt made  much difference, as Mr H was aware the 
account was closing.
She acknowledged Barclays failings in delaying to close his accounts, failing to issue  a 
written notice and the time Mr H had to spend in branch, but felt Barclays  had done enough 
to put things right by offering £150 in compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed Mr Hs complaint, Ive 
decided to uphold  it in part, for the following reasons.
Account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer, so long it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers  account. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Hs accounts  with which  both Barclays and Mr H had to 
comply  say that Barclays  could  close the accounts  by giving two months notice, or 
immediately and without  notice, under certain  circumstances.  
Ref: DRN05808162Having looked  at the evidence Barclays has provided me, Im satisfied it didnt breach its 
terms of business  when it closed Mr Hs accounts.  And that it wasnt  obliged  to share the 
reasons for its decision with Mr H.
Having said that, Barclays didnt follow its usual process of confirming the account closure in 
writing. And it didnt actually close Mr Hs account until two-and-a-half  months after it told 
Mr H it would do so. But our services  role isnt to punish a business  for mistakes its made, 
so Ive based my decision on the impact Barclays mistakes had on Mr H.
I can see Mr H was aware Barclays had blocked  his accounts, and that it intended  to close 
them. So, while Barclays  didnt follow its usual process, Im not persuaded the mistakes  it 
made had a significant impact on Mr H, such that they would justify an increase  in the 
compensation Barclays has already offered.
I understand Mr Hs frustration and I know hell be disappointed with what Ive said.  And Im 
not underestimating the stress he was under  at the time of these events. But I cant 
reasonably say the events Ive set out above  were  the cause of that stress.  Ive set out my 
thoughts on what  did cause distress to Mr H in a separate decision, relating to Mr Hs joint 
personal account with Barclays.
Account block
Im satisfied Barclays acted in accordance with its legal and regulatory  obligations  when it 
blocked and reviewed Mr Hs accounts. And that it was entitled to do so under the account 
terms and conditions. So, I cant say it acted unfairly  in blocking the funds in Mr Hs account.
I recognise Mr H experienced difficulties  in withdrawing his money  after Barclays lifted  the 
block. But, having looked at all the available evidence, and thought  about what both Mr H 
and Barclays have  said, I dont think I can reasonably ask Barclays to do anything further to 
put things right for Mr H.
Mr H has told our service  he spent  over an hour at each  branch  on each of his two visits, 
and that Barclays  didnt have enough  cash in branch to meet his withdrawal on his first visit. 
Barclays has said Mr H attended at a time when the branch was busy, and there  were  long 
queues. And that it offered him a bank transfer,  and arranged  for the cash  to be delivered to 
a nearby branch when Mr H declined.
So, much of the stress was caused by the branch being particularly busy, something I cant 
reasonably ask Barclays to compensate Mr H for, particularly given this all happened in the 
last few days before Christmas, when banks are likely to be busy. And while I accept it would 
have been frustrating for Mr H not to be able to collect the cash  immediately, Im satisfied 
Barclays acted reasonably by offering him a bank transfer, and by arranging for the cash  to 
be available two days later.
Barclays has acknowledged  its customer service  standards fell below what  it would expect. It 
accepts it should  have confirmed the account closure to Mr H, that he was given misleading 
information at times,  and that Mr H had a poor experience in branch. And I agree it should 
compensate Mr H for the distress and inconvenience those matters caused him. But Im 
satisfied the £150 offered sufficiently compensates him for the matters Ive referred to above.
Ref: DRN05808163Mr Hs overall  experience with Barclays at this time was undoubtedly very stressful,  but the 
cause of that stress was not born solely out of the events relating to his business accounts.  
So, I will address those  issues in a separate decision.
my final decision
For reasons set out above, my final decision is that Barclays has done enough to put things 
right by offering  to pay Mr H £150.  So I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020.
Alex Brooke-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0580816