K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains through  her representative, that Ann Bellingham Financial Services (ABFS) 
failed to re-invest her money into a stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) 
following a platform transfer.  
background
Mrs B appointed ABFS  as her financial advisor in August 2017. She says she did so 
because ABFS was willing  to act as her financial advisor free of charge. Mrs B says whilst 
she attended meetings  with her husband, her investment matters  were separate  to his. 
Mrs B says ABFS advised her to transfer her existing stocks  and shares  ISA worth 
£43,163.19 to a new platform, but she later found  out the money wasnt  invested when it 
reached the new platform  it remained in cash,  causing her financial loss. 
ABFS says it considered  Mrs B and her husband to be joint investors  when it agreed to 
become the new financial  advisor. It says it charged  one initial  advice fee for both and Mrs B 
jointly attended the meetings with her husband  and, left investment matters to her husband 
to decide. ABFS says Mrs Bs money wasnt re-invested when it reached the new stocks and 
shares ISA platform because it wasnt satisfied Mrs B understood the risks. It says in 
December 2017,  Mrs Bs husband had changed  his mind on a recommendation it made, so 
it agreed to take no further action on any recommendations,  including Mrs Bs stocks and 
shares ISA until a further discussion  had taken place. 
ABFS says in March 2018,  it was agreed  all initial recommendations would be implemented  
in the new financial  year. But it subsequently received disengagement letters  in April 2018, 
so no further work was carried  out. It says Mrs Bs disengagement letter from the new stocks 
and shares ISA platform wasnt received until August 2018. So, it offered  to refund £96.56, in 
fees it received  from April 2018 to August 2018. It also says Mrs B didnt  lose out financially 
from the re-investment not taking place by doing a comparison  of what  her money  wouldve 
been worth  compared  to what  it was worth when she withdrew it. 
Mrs B was unhappy with ABFS response, so she brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators considered  what  had happened  but they didnt think  ABFS  needed to do 
anymore. They thought it was fair for ABFS  to consider Mrs B as a joint investor  with her 
husband, and they were  also satisfied  ABFS had a reasonable cause for concern, which  is 
why, it didnt re-invest in stocks and shares. They thought even if Mrs B were to be treated 
as a separate investor, she hadnt  suffered any financial loss. 
Mrs B disagreed. She says she did understand the risks as her investment was previously 
held in a stocks and shares  ISA. Mrs B would like compensation for her loss of investment 
and costs involved in seeking a new financial advisor.  
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been referred to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I recognise Mrs Bs 
strength of feeling  about this matter,  and I understand this will come as a disappointment to 
her, but Ill explain my reasons  why.
Ref: DRN04269862Mrs B says her investments matters were separate  to her husbands so ABFS shouldnt 
have considered her as a joint investor. ABFS  has provided me with the notes from the 
meetings it had with Mrs B and her husband as well as the letters  it sent them. Whilst I dont  
doubt Mrs B has provided her best recollection of what happened at the time,  I must have 
regard for any documentary evidence that is available  to me as well. And having  taken  all 
the documentary  evidence into consideration, I think its likely Mrs B was aware and happy  
to be considered a joint investor with her husband.  
I say this because  not only was Mrs B and her husband charged one initial  advice fee, the 
meeting notes also suggests  she hadnt  attended  any meetings with ABFS  in the absence of 
her husband. Similarly, Ive noted  the follow up letters sent by ABFS had a breakdown  of 
Mrs B and her husbands investment matters  and was addressed  to both. If Mrs B was keen 
on keeping her investment matters  separate to her husbands, I wouldve expected  her to at 
least query why the meetings were being held jointly.  Or why the letters contained both her 
and her husbands investment details in one or arranged to see the adviser on her own. 
In January 2018, ABFS acted on Mrs Bs husband telephoning it to instruct it to withdraw  
£20,000 from her ISA. Mrs B subsequently  telephoned ABFS to acknowledge the speed in 
which this was done. So, I think its also likely  Mrs B was happy  for ABFS to act on her 
husbands instructions with regards to her own investments.     
ABFS says it wasnt satisfied Mrs B understood the risks involved with a stocks  and shares 
ISA. Mrs B says she was aware as her money  was previously held in a stocks  and shares  
ISA. Ive also seen  that Mrs B topped  up her ISA with £3,000  in September  2017  which  
ABFS did invest into stocks and shares, before her money from her existing stocks  and 
share ISA was transferred to the new platform in November 2017. 
When a financial adviser gives advice, they have  a responsibility to ensure that customers  
understand the risks associated with any recommendations they make.  Whilst I 
acknowledge the point Mrs B makes, I think it was reasonable for ABFS to not proceed  with 
investing her money into stocks and shares when  it did. I say this because, in December 
2017 Mrs Bs husband changed his mind and agreed with ABFS that no further action would 
be taken until a new meeting was set up in 2018. 
Having already decided that I think it was fair for ABFS to treat Mrs B and her husband  as 
joint investors, and for it to take instructions from her husband with regards to her investment 
matters - I cant  say ABFS acted unreasonably  when it did not continue to proceed  with 
investing Mrs Bs money into stocks  and shares  at that stage. ABFS  was concerned its 
customers didnt understand the recommendations it made, or didnt fully agree with them,  
and in this situation it did what I would expect  it to - which  is to take no further action before 
discussing these concerns first. 
ABFS met with Mrs B and her husband  in March 2018, where  concerns  were discussed and 
ABFS agreed nothing further  would be done  until they spoke again in the new financial  year 
(April 2018). However, ABFS received its first disengagement  letter in April 2018, so 
understandably it carried out no further work from this point.  ABFS  has offered to refund all 
fees it received  from Mrs B stocks and shares  ISA on the new platform  from April 2018  until 
August 2018.  I think this is fair as it takes  into account any money  it received  during the time 
it was no longer actively managing this product for Mrs B. 
Ref: DRN04269863I understand Mrs B is concerned that she has lost out financially as a result of not being  
invested for that period  of time.  As Ive said, Im satisfied  ABFS was entitled  to take the 
actions that it took and did so on the basis of what  it thought  was in the best interests  of its 
client. Despite this, it has also carried out a loss calculation to check  if Mrs B had in fact lost 
out financially. Given some drops  in the market during that period, and a large withdrawal 
Mrs B made in January 2018, its calculations showed that Mrs B was over £800 better off as 
a result of not having the money invested. 
Overall, I appreciate Mrs B will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusions  as the 
investigator and I realise my decision isnt what she wants  to hear. However,  Im satisfied 
ABFS didnt treat her unfairly and Im therefore unable to tell it to do anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020. 
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0426986