K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society hasnt paid him an account  switch incentive 
payment of £100.  
background
Mr S says he recommended  that his mother switch her account to Nationwide which  should 
have meant  he received  a switch incentive payment  of £100. He says the account  was 
transferred but he hasnt  received the payment. Mr S says there were problems with 
Nationwides systems which meant  the process  wasnt completed.
Nationwide says Mr Ss mothers account  was opened on 21 November  2018  but she 
needed to complete the second part of the process  to allow  the £100 incentive  to be paid. It 
says the screenshots Mr S sent do not contain  any information that suggested its systems 
were at fault for the second part of the process not being completed.  Nationwide doesnt 
accept making a mistake  and says that Mr S isnt entitled to the incentive in line with the 
incentive terms and conditions.
Mr S brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt uphold it. The investigator looked 
at the switch incentive terms  and conditions and didnt think  those terms and conditions  were 
met. He didnt think the second part of the process  namely the completion of the form had 
been complied  with and also didnt think there was any evidence of system fault at 
Nationwide.
Mr S says the problem  was Nationwides and its web page didnt allow the form to be 
completed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons.  I realise Mr S will be disappointed  
by my decision.
I have looked  at Nationwides account switch incentive terms and conditions and I can see 
that in order to be eligible for the payment, a two part process must be completed.  I can see 
that Mr Ss mother completed  the account  switch  but I have not seen any evidence  that the 
second part of the eligibility  process  was completed namely the completion  of the required 
form. So in those circumstances  I dont think Nationwide  acted  unfairly or made a mistake  by 
refusing to pay the incentive.
I appreciate that Mr S says that there  were  problems with Nationwides on line systems that 
prevented the form being completed. But I can also see that Nationwide  says its checked 
and it has no record of any such problems.  So on balance I dont think  it likely that 
Nationwide had an online  problem that prevented the form being completed and I also think 
that there  was a 90 day period in which to submit it.
I have listened  to the calls between the parties and think that Nationwide explained what  
needed to be done in order to be eligible  for the incentive. And at that stage there  was a 
significant period  of time left in order to complete the second  part of the process. So overall 
Im satisfied that Nationwide hasnt acted unfairly  or made a mistake.  I appreciate that Mr S 
will remain  disappointed by my decision. But I think that brings an end to what we can do in 
Ref: DRN09893952trying to sort out this dispute informally.  I can see that in any event Mr S is considering 
alternative action.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0989395