K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about short-term  loans granted to him by Uncle Buck Finance LLP 
(UncleBuck). Mr M says he couldnt afford these loans and that UncleBuck didnt take 
appropriate steps to check whether he could afford them when he took them out. 
background
UncleBuck agreed  nine short-term loans for Mr M between February 2015 and 
September 2017. The loans ranged  from £100  to £250 and were due to be repaid over 
between one and three monthly  instalments. Ive set out a summary  of lending below. 
loan 
no.applicationprincipal 
amount  
(£)repaidno. of 
instalments 
duehighest monthly  
repayment  due (£)
1 06/02/2015 200 20/02/2015 1 224
2 28/02/2015 100 20/03/2015 1 115
3 03/04/2015 150 18/04/2015 1 164
4 09/11/2015 150 20/01/2016 3 66
5 10/03/2016 150 20/05/2016 3 66
6 04/07/2016 200 20/09/2016 3 92
7 30/09/2016 200 20/12/2016 3 94
8 09/06/2017 150 18/08/2017 3 66
9 08/09/2017 250 20/11/2017 3 112
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Ms complaint already and recommended the 
complaint be upheld in part. She thought  the checks UncleBuck carried out on loans 7  9 
werent proportionate,  and that had UncleBuck carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve 
realised these loans  wouldve  been unaffordable for him, and wouldnt have  agreed  to them. 
Mr Ms representative acknowledged receipt  of the adjudicators findings. But raised  no 
objections and provided no further information for consideration.
UncleBuck reviewed the adjudicators findings  and disagreed with the opinion.  So the case  
has been passed to me for a decision.  
As loans  1  6 no longer  appear to be in dispute,  my decision will focus on the remaining 
loans, loans 7  9. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator at the time Mr M borrowed from 
UncleBuck. Its regulations  for lenders are set out in its consumer credit sourcebook 
(generally referred to as CONC). These regulations require lenders to take reasonable 
steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit 
agreement in a sustainable manner without  the customer incurring financial difficulties or 
experiencing significant adverse consequences.   - CONC 5.3.1(2). 
Ref: DRN07472582CONC 5.3.1(7) defines sustainable as being  able to make repayments without undue  
difficulty. And explains that this means  borrowers should be able to make their repayments 
on time and out of their income  and savings without having to borrow  to meet  these 
repayments. 
In making this decision Ive considered whether or not UncleBuck  did everything it shouldve  
when assessing  Mr Ms loan applications.  And if it didnt, had it carried  out further checks,  
whether it wouldve realised these loans may have been unaffordable for him.
Having reviewed the case, I agree  with the adjudicators findings. I dont think  the checks 
UncleBuck carried out when  Mr M applied for loans  7 - 9 were proportionate. And I think  that 
had it carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve concluded these loans wouldve been 
unaffordable for Mr M, and wouldnt have agreed to them.
So Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint for the same reasons as our adjudicator  did, and 
directing UncleBuck to put things  right in the way she recommended. I appreciate this will be 
a disappointing  outcome  for UncleBuck, but I hope my explanation will make it clear as to 
how and why Ive reached this conclusion. 
UncleBuck says it carried out proportionate checks when it agreed  to all of Mr Ms loan 
applications. It says that when  it assessed the affordability of the loans for most of Mr Ms 
applications, it asked  him to provide  details  of his monthly income  and expenditure. It also 
said it confirmed his application with him telephonically, during which he confirmed he was 
not considering,  seeking, or involved with any debt management, and that the loan was not 
to going to be used to repay other debts. 
For other applications, its said Mr M applied using the existing customer section of its 
website, where he confirmed that his monthly financial information remained unchanged 
from his previous applications.  So Ive considered  this when deciding Mr Ms case. 
loan 7 
When Mr M applied for loan 7, hed been borrowing from Uncle Buck  for around 18 months, 
albeit thered been a gap of just over six months  between  repaying his third loan and taking 
out loan 4. So while Mr M had been  borrowing from UncleBuck for a significant  amount of 
time, given  the gap in the chain of lending, I think that for loan 7 (which was actually Mr Ms 
fourth loan in the current chain of lending),  UncleBucks  checks didnt necessarily need to go 
as far as I may have thought they ought  to, had there been no gap.
That being  said,  I still think that given the overall length of the lending  relationship  between  
UncleBuck and Mr M (which was around  18 months); and the amount Mr M was borrowing in 
relation to his stated  monthly income; that UncleBucks checks  shouldve  gone further.
I think UncleBuck shouldve not only asked  Mr M about his income, regular monthly living  
costs and regular  monthly  expenditure, but shouldve also (given  the amount of short-term  
loans hed now taken  out) looked to see what other short-term lending  Mr M may have  still 
had outstanding at the time.
Uncle Buck  has argued that it did look into Mr Ms existing short-term  credit commitments. 
And that the credit check it ran, listed specific values for short-term credit commitments  
which it took into consideration when  Mr M applied. And that at the time Mr M applied for 
Ref: DRN07472583loan 7, the credit check reported a code of ND  which Uncle  Buck has told us usually meant 
zero. 
But having  looked at a list of codes from the company that provides this credit information,  I 
havent seen anything to lead me to believe that ND means  zero.  And I can see in other  
fields within the same section, that for some  questions  it has zero listed against the credit 
check result.  So I think its more likely the report wouldve stated zero, if Mr M had no other 
short-term credit commitments outstanding.
So I think there was enough ambiguity from the codes  the credit  check revealed; and 
enough of a history  of Mr M taking out regular  short-term  loans  over the past two years with 
UncleBuck alone;  to have prompted UncleBuck to look further into Mr Ms outstanding 
short-term credit commitments at this time. 
Had it done so, I think  UncleBuck  wouldve  realised  that at the point Mr M applied for loan 7, 
he had around  five existing short-term loans  with other lenders, with monthly  repayments  
totalling almost £1,500,  which was around  the same figure UncleBuck recorded for Mr Ms 
monthly income. And this was before making  any allowances for his living costs and regular 
credit commitments,  which at the time totalled around £1,000. 
So I think had UncleBuck made further  enquiries  into Mr Ms financial circumstances, it 
wouldve realised that his current monthly commitments  already exceeded  his monthly 
income, before any deductions were made for general living  costs, and that he had 
insufficient funds  to be able to service  any further debts at this point. As a responsible 
lender, I dont think it wouldve agreed  to loan 7 knowing this. 
loans 8 and 9
When Mr M applied for loans 8 and 9, almost six months had passed since  hed settled his 
previous loan. But given that hed been  borrowing from Uncle Buck  for around two years  by 
this point, and this was now his eight  loan, I dont think this gap in itself, is enough for me to 
think that UncleBuck  shouldve  relaxed its checks.  
Given both the length of the lending relationship and the number of loans Mr M had taken 
out with UncleBuck, by this time, I think UncleBuck shouldve been building  a full picture  of 
Mr Ms financial circumstances, and verifying the information it was given before agreeing to 
any further lines of credit.
UncleBucks told us it ran a credit check which identified that Mr M had around £1,167 
outstanding in short-term credit, spread across three short-term loans at the time he applied 
for loan 8. And that the terms of these loans  were periodic, suggesting they were more than 
likely due to be repaid over a matter of months, rather than in a lump  sum. 
But UncleBucks provided no further evidence to support this argument, and its given no 
information as to what it identified the term of these loans to be, or how much these periodic 
repayments were. So I havent seen sufficient  evidence  to suggest the repayments on these 
loans were low enough, such  that Mr M wouldve been able to sustainably  afford the 
repayments on loan 8, while these debts remained outstanding. 
Furthermore, I dont think Uncle Bucks done enough to build a full picture of Mr Ms financial  
circumstances. As while it seems to have  uncovered  that Mr M had three short-term loans 
Ref: DRN07472584outstanding when he applied for loan 8, the evidence  Ive seen suggests he actually  had 
eight short-term loans  outstanding, with monthly  repayments totalling around £800.
And when  the above short-term credit commitments  were added to Mr Ms regular monthly 
living costs,  which were  actually around £870; and his regular monthly credit commitments  
which were around £50; his total monthly outgoings  totalled around £1,720. And while I can 
see Mr Ms approximate monthly income was a little higher than he declared  at £1,830, this 
wouldve still left Mr M with just over £100 from which to meet his highest monthly repayment 
to UncleBuck of £66.
The regulations in place at the time of Mr Ms applications, required UncleBuck to carry out a 
creditworthiness assessment to check whether he could meet  his repayments in a sustainable 
manner without incurring  financial difficulties. But while I think  its possible Mr M may have 
had a small sum of money left over after repaying his current  credit commitments - Im not 
persuaded the amount  Ive identified was sufficient for him to be able to meet the 
repayments on this new loan in a sustainable manner.
So I dont  think UncleBucks checks were  proportionate for loan 8. And I think  proportionate  
checks wouldve resulted  in UncleBuck identifying this loan wouldve been unaffordable for 
Mr M, and not agreeing  to it on these terms. 
Mr M repaid loan 8 in August  2017  and took out loan 9 just three weeks  later,  this time 
borrowing £250. And as Ive said,  by now, UncleBuck shouldve  been carrying out a full 
review of Mr Ms financial circumstances, and verifying the information  it was given. 
Had it done so, it wouldve  seen that at the time Mr M took out loan 9, he had monthly  
repayments due to other short-term lenders of around £1,500. This was in addition to his 
regular monthly living  costs and regular monthly financial commitments which totaled around 
£1,000. So I think  proportionate checks wouldve shown UncleBuck that Mr M was already 
overcommitted financially,  and not in a position to take out any further credit commitments  at 
this time. And therefore would not have lent to him.
UncleBucks argued that as Mr M met all of his repayments on time for loans 7  9, that the 
loans werent unaffordable. But UncleBuck needed  to ensure that Mr M could not just meet 
his repayments  on time,  but also do so out of his income and savings,  without having  to 
borrow to meet these  repayments. And given  what Ive seen of Mr Ms disposable income  at 
the time,  it doesnt  appear to me that proportionate checks  wouldve identified  he wouldve 
been able to meet these repayments without having  to borrow more.  
The fact Mr M seems  to have owed monies  on between five to eight other short-term loans 
around the time UncleBuck approved his applications; and that it seems his outgoings already 
exceeded his income;  shouldve  suggested to UncleBuck it was more likely he was now in a 
cycle of borrowing, where he needed to take out further loans in order to meet  his current  
commitments, and not in a position to meet any further repayments  in a sustainable manner.
Uncle Bucks also argued  in response to the adjudicators opinion for loan 8 that If we speak 
to a consumer, then we should have a reasonable expectation theyre providing accurate 
information and we consider that this is an additional way of checking what  a customer  has 
completed on our application form. If this is not satisfactory, then it seems to us that this 
adjudication suggests we cannot rely on what customers tell us, ie. customers  are being 
inaccurate and untruthful. Furthermore, lenders  are being required to refund interest and 
charges to individuals whove provided inaccurate information,  which  cant be fair and just.
Ref: DRN07472585While I acknowledge Uncle Bucks point, as Ive said above - checks carried out as part of a 
business creditworthiness assessment need to be proportionate. So its likely,  the longer a 
period of time a customer borrows for, the more in depth their checks  would need to be to be 
considered proportionate.  So for loans later on in a chain of lending,  where  theres a higher  
risk a customer may be starting to become dependent on short-term loans, Id expect a 
business to do more than just rely on what a customer tells it. 
Section 5.3.1 (4b) from the Consumer Credit sourcebook explicitly states that  if a firm 
takes income or expenditure  into account  in its creditworthiness assessment or its 
assessment required  under CONC 5.2.2R - it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely 
solely for its assessment  of the customer's  income  and expenditure, on a statement of those 
matters made by the customer.
So while I accept its reasonable for UncleBuck to expect a customer  to be truthful in their 
disclosures, this doesnt detract from the fact that by the time of Mr Ms application for loan 7, 
UncleBuck shouldve been concerned about  Mr Ms possible reliance on short -term credit,  
and shouldve done more to ensure he could afford to meet  his repayments sustainably  from 
this point on. Had it done so, I think it wouldve seen that Mr M had insufficient disposable 
income available to meet the repayments on loans 7  9 in a sustainable manner.
In summary,  I dont think the checks UncleBuck  carried out on loans 7  9 were 
proportionate. And I think that had UncleBuck carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve 
realised these loans  wouldve  been unaffordable for Mr M, and wouldnt have agreed to them. 
what UncleBuck should  do to put things right
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think UncleBuck should have agreed loans 7  9 for 
Mr M. So it needs to refund all of the interest  and charges Mr M paid on these loans.
Specifically, it should:
refund the interest and charges paid on the loans it agreed between September 2016 
and September 2017
pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*
remove any adverse  information about these  loans  from Mr Ms credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UncleBuck to take off tax from this interest. UncleBuck 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. 
And I require  Uncle Buck  Finance LLP to put things right as described above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0747258