K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  changed the terms of his private  medical 
insurance policy without  telling him.
background
Mr S first took out a private medical insurance policy with AXA PPP in November 2012,  after 
receiving advice from a broker. 
In April 2019, Mr S contacted AXA PPP in relation  to a consultation and tests. He says that 
he was surprised to learn  that there  had been  several changes  to his cover  since  2012, 
including that the excess due under the policy had increased from £250 to £1,000. 
Mr S says that AXA PPP sent renewal information to an incorrect address, so he didnt know  
about the changes.  He says that if he had known about the changes, he would  have 
cancelled the policy after two or three years from its start date in 2012. Mr S wants a refund 
of the premiums he paid after that.
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. He said that the compensation of 
£100 AXA PPP had already paid to Mr S in relation to the incorrect  address  was fair. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said that as AXA PPP sent the documents  to an 
incorrect address, he lost the opportunity  to review or cancel the policy.  Mr S says that hes 
horrified that AXA PPP can take his money by direct debit but not give him any documents.
Mr S also complained about how AXA PPP dealt  with his phone  call when he called to claim 
against the policy. As that wasnt part of Mr S initial complaint to AXA,  its not being dealt 
with here.     
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Its common ground that AXA PPP made  an error when it recorded an incorrect  address for 
Mr S. That meant Mr S didnt received  renewal  information. I think that the compensation of 
£100 AXA PPP has already paid is fair. Ill explain why: 
I should start by saying that wed expect AXA PPP to get matters right. It has referred 
to the fact that the error didnt come to light sooner, as its letters  werent returned. 
That doesnt  mitigate its error. Similarly, AXA PPP says that it sent Mr S broker  
notification of renewal.  The broker wasnt obliged to forward anything on to Mr S. 
Ref: DRN00991062AXA PPPs error meant that Mr S didnt have the opportunity to review the policy on 
renewal. But I dont think that caused Mr S any loss. Thats  because  Mr S policy 
didnt change in the way hes referred to. Also, based on what  Ive seen,  it appears  
that Mr S was aware  that he was paying  the premium  by monthly direct debit and it 
doesnt appear that he was dissatisfied  with the premium he was paying until the 
error came to light. 
Mr S has provided a quote referring to an excess of £250. But thats not what he 
applied for. In Mr Ss initial application form in 2012, he indicated  that he wanted an 
excess of £1,000. He also said that he wanted  the  Six Week  Option   which  means 
that Mr S would choose NHS treatment if the waiting time was less than six weeks. 
Its usual for this sort of policy to provide that the first step is a GP referral.  I dont 
think that Mr S policy changed  such that, if hed received the renewal documents, he 
would have cancelled  the policy. 
I dont think that if AXA PPP hadnt  made the error, Mr S would have cancelled the 
policy after two or three years.  Theres nothing to indicate that Mr S no longer  
required private medical insurance.  He had the benefit of cover  being in place, 
should he wish to make  a claim. So, I dont think it would be fair to direct AXA PPP to 
refund premiums. 
Considering  everything, I think that the compensation of £100  AXA PPP has already 
paid is fair and I dont  require  it to pay any more.  
my final decision 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold his complaint 
as I think that the compensation  AXA PPP Healthcare Limited  has already paid is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.  
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0099106