K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds service in connection with 
his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr S was in an accident with another car. He rang Admiral to report the accident.  It put him 
through to another business, a credit  hire company (CHC), which arranged a hire car for 
Mr S on a credit hire basis.
Admiral deemed Mr S car a total loss. So it paid him its pre-accident value. But the CHC 
said it couldnt recover its costs from the other driver, and that Mr S wasn't cooperating with 
it. So the CHC told him hed have to repay  the cost of the hire car it had provided  him with, 
which was almost £4,200.
Mr S complained to Admiral. He said that his policy entitled him to a courtesy car and he 
thought thats  what  Admiral had provided.  Admiral  agreed that it could have  given clearer  
information that the CHC provided a hire car. And it offered Mr S £100  compensation for the 
impact of that.
Mr S didn't  think that went far enough  and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator  
thought Admiral had handled the matter reasonably.  Mr S didn't agree so the complaint's  
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
When Mr S rang Admiral  he blamed the other  driver for causing the accident. So Admiral 
gave him the option of either claiming on his insurance policy or of referring him to the CHC. 
It might help if I explain that, where  a drivers been  involved in an accident  which  wasn't their 
fault, CHCs may offer to arrange repairs and provide hire cars. But CHCs are independent 
from insurers, they are entirely  separate  businesses. So when a CHC is involved the 
consumer isnt claiming from their own insurance policy and the CHC isnt acting as agents 
for the insurer. Instead the consumer signs an agreement with the CHC that allows  it to seek 
to recover its costs  from the other drivers  insurer. 
Ive listened to the call in which Admiral  referred Mr S to the CHC. In that call Admiral gave 
Mr S the option of either  claiming from his own policy or of putting him through  to the CHC. 
Mr S chose to use the CHC.  And I think Admiral gave Mr S enough  information  with which  to 
make an informed decision about whether or not he wished to claim from his own policy.  
But Admiral  didn't get everything right in the phone call. Mr S asked Admiral about whether  
or not a courtesy  car would be provided.  Admiral said the CHC would sort that out. But, for 
the sake of clarity Admiral  should  have explained that the CHC wouldn't be providing a 
courtesy car; instead  it would provide him with a hire car. But Admiral didn't  make that clear. 
And that was why it paid Mr S £100 compensation.
Ref: DRN04386862So Ive thought about whether that went far enough. I've noted that after Mr S agreed for 
Admiral to refer him to the CHC. And Mr S later signed the CHCs agreement. I understand 
that agreement  explained that Mr S was taking  a hire car and that if the CHC couldnt 
recover its costs form the other  side then he would remain liable for its costs. So even 
though Admiral could have  been clearer that the CHC wouldn't  provide a courtesy car I 
think its likely the information  from the CHC was enough for Mr S to make an informed 
decision about whether or not he wanted the CHC to provide a hire car or if he wanted 
Admiral to deal with his claim  under the terms of his policy.  Mr S told us that he didn't read 
the CHCs agreement before signing it. But I don't think I can hold Admiral responsible for 
that. Mr S chose not to claim on his Admiral  policy, so I think that whatever took place 
between Mr S and the CHC after Admiral  referred  him to it was between  Mr S and the CHC.
Mr S has said that Admiral should have talked him through the consequences  of a referral  to 
the CHC. But as I've said above I think it gave enough information for Mr S to decide 
whether he wanted  to claim on his own policy or not. And he chose not to do so. And if he 
hadn't liked the terms the CHC offered he could have changed his mind and claimed from 
his policy, rather than accepting the CHCs  service. It follows that I don't hold Admiral 
responsible for any issues that Mr S had with the CHC  following his referral to it. And I think 
that the £100 compensation  Admirals offered him for the lack of clarity in its call is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July  2020.
Joe Scott
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0438686