K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with the cash settlement Ageas Insurance Limited has offered her for 
some stolen jewellery and with the service shes had from the insurer.
background
Mrs M was burgled in 2018.  Jewellery  and cash were stolen from her home, so she claimed 
on her contents insurance with Ageas.
The valuation Mrs M got from her own jeweller  for the stolen jewellery  was higher than that 
provided by Ageas expert. So Mrs M thinks Ageas should increase its cash offer.  And she 
thinks Ageas communication with her was poor.
The investigator who looked at Mrs Ms complaint didnt uphold  it. She didnt think  Ageas 
had made  an error or treated Mrs M unfairly  in how it offered to settle her claim. Mrs M 
disagrees and so her complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
My starting point is Mrs Ms insurance policy. It says that, in settling her claim, and after 
deducting the policy excess, Ageas will repair or replace  her damaged,  lost or stolen items, 
depending on the type of claim. It says,  alternatively,  it may make her a cash offer. And it 
says Ageas will decide which way of paying her claim  is most  appropriate.
The policy goes on to say that if it suggests a replacement, Ageas may offer to use one of its 
own partners. It says if Mrs M wishes to use someone else,  shes  free to do so. But if this is 
more expensive than the rate Ageas can get from one of its partners,  it wont  pay the extra 
cost.
Finally, the policy  says if Ageas decides  not to replace  the contents Mrs M is claiming for,
itll offer her a cash payment. And it says it works out the offer by calculating  the loss in value 
of the contents,  as well as the estimated cost of replacing them. It says itll then offer Mrs M 
the lower of these  two amounts.
This is a standard clause in contents  insurance policies and I think  its fair and reasonable of 
Ageas to apply it in Mrs Ms case. 
I understand Ageas appointed a jeweller  to value Mrs Ms stolen jewellery with a view to 
arranging for the stolen  items to be replaced.  This is something it was allowed to do under 
the policy. But Mrs M said she wanted  a cash settlement  rather  than replacement jewellery, 
because her jewellery would be hard to replace. Ageas agreed to that - which,  again, it was 
allowed to do under the policy.  
Mrs M hasnt  got any receipts  for, or photos of, the jewellery that was stolen. This isnt 
surprising as she says these were family heirlooms. But it undoubtedly makes  the process of 
valuing her stolen items more difficult.  So Ageas jeweller only had Mrs Ms verbal  
Ref: DRN00876592description of the stolen  jewellery to base  its valuation  on. It sent its final valuation report to 
Ageas in October 2018.
Independently, Mrs M arranged for her own jeweller  to value her stolen jewellery.  And I have 
to assume this jeweller also relied  solely on Mrs Ms verbal descriptions to reach a value. 
This second valuation  (which is a retail valuation) is higher than the retail valuation  Ageas 
jeweller gave   the difference is almost £2,000. From the evidence I have, I cant  explain  this 
difference. And its not my role to place a value on Mrs Ms jewellery. What  I must decide 
instead is whether  Ageas  has acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its valuation  on        
Mrs Ms stolen  jewellery.
On balance, I havent seen anything to suggest Ageas has acted  unfairly or unreasonably in 
making the cash settlement offer it has. Its jeweller only had Mrs M descriptions to rely on. I 
can see the items listed in Ageas valuation report arent described as clearly  as those on 
Mrs Ms jewellers valuation. Mrs M pointed  out what she thinks are some discrepancies   for 
example, she noticed Ageas hasnt referred  to a ruby in one item or to some lapis lazuli in 
another. But Ageas has confirmed with its expert that these things were taken into account in 
its valuation. And Ageas  has said that one item Mrs Ms jeweller valued at £1,850  retails  at 
£1,795 at most jewellers  which does  suggest Mrs Ms jeweller may have been generous 
with at least some of its estimates.  
So, on balance, I think Ageas has acted within the terms  of Mrs Ms policy.  And having 
considered both experts reports, I dont think Ageas has acted unreasonably or unfairly in 
relying on its experts report about  the value of Mrs Ms stolen jewellery. 
When deciding how much its fair for Ageas to pay, Mrs Ms policy  only says Ageas should  
settle in cash  the amount it couldve sourced the items  for from its own suppliers. Insurers 
can often get a much better deal from suppliers than a consumer  would be able to in a shop. 
And its not unfair  or unreasonable for Ageas to offer Mrs M only the amount it could get the 
items for itself if it were replacing  them. I appreciate why Mrs M preferred to have a cash  
settlement, given she says many  items  were  inherited and so are irreplaceable. But I dont 
think its fair for me to ask Ageas to pay more for the items than it wouldve been able to 
replace them  for itself,  especially  since  this is what Mrs Ms policy says its allowed to do. 
So, overall, I dont  think Ageas  has acted unfairly or unreasonably in making  the settlement 
offer it has. If it hasnt  done so already, it should now make arrangements  to pay Mrs M for 
her claim.
For the avoidance of doubt, I should  also say that, like the investigator who looked at        
Mrs Ms complaint, I think Ageas has treated Mrs M fairly in offering her £750 for the cash 
that was stolen from her home. Thats because, under her policy, this is the maximum 
amount Ageas has to pay her for cash held in her home. And I havent seen anything to 
make me think Ageas communications with Mrs M were poor.
Ref: DRN00876593my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0087659