K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Tesco Personal  Finance Plc (Tesco) should not have allowed her to 
open a credit card account with them, and allowing her to do so was irresponsible.  She 
asked for all the interest and charges which had been applied  to her account  to be refunded,  
and any late payment, arrears, and default  markers  removed  from her credit file. 
background
The investigators background summary covered the relevant facts and is known to both 
Ms B and Tesco so I wont  repeat it. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned  something its not 
because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues.   
Ms B opened her account with Tesco  on the 26 June 2014. At that time Ms B says that she 
had within  the 12 months  prior, defaulted  on a payday loan and was in arrears  with it. Ms Bs 
argument is that had Tescos  carried out thorough checks when  she applied for the credit  
card, then they would  have seen she was unable to afford any credit at that time. As such 
they should have refused her application.
Tesco said they carried out a credit check with a credit reference  agency when Ms B applied 
to open her account. Tesco were  able to see from that check that Ms B had two delinquent 
accounts but there were no arrears showing. Tesco said that the delinquent accounts were 
probably regarding  accounts that were previously in arrears,  but were  then at that point  
satisfactory. Tesco say Ms B passed their lending criteria and she was granted  a credit card 
account because  they deemed  that she could afford the credit  offered.
Ms B was unhappy  with Tescos response and so an investigator from this service  looked 
into the complaint  but didnt think Tesco had acted unfairly. As Ms B didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual  complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate  so to do. What I need to decide is whether  Tesco  
acted fairly  and reasonably in how it dealt with Ms B. My aim is to ensure that a fair and 
reasonable outcome has been achieved,  which  means  taking into account both Tescos view 
and that of Ms B. I do not perform the role of the industry regulator,  and nor do I have the 
power to make rules  for financial businesses, punish  them,  or direct  that they change  their 
processes. That falls under the remit of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). As our 
investigator made clear  to Ms B, our service isnt here to assess a business policy  itself,  or 
its adequacy, as that would  be the role of the FCA. 
My decisions  are based on the evidence supplied to me. Looking at the available  evidence, I 
think we have an unfortunate situation  here. When Ms B applied for her credit card, I would 
expect to see Tesco carrying out checks to see whether she would  be able to repay it in a 
way which  was sustainable. Those  checks would  need to be proportionate to things like the 
amount of credit she was asking for and the information Ms B had provided  about her 
financial situation. But there isnt a prescribed or set list of checks which  I would expect 
Tesco to carry out. 
Ref: DRN01488162Tesco say their decision to offer credit to Ms B was based  on the information supplied by her 
and from the credit  reference agencies and their own risk strategies. Tesco did complete 
various checks including affordability and indebtedness checks  before approving  Ms Bs 
application. And those checks revealed no default in the 12 months  prior to her application. 
The credit report provided by Ms B bears this out. 
Its for Tesco as a business  to decide  who they extend credit to and on what  basis. What Id 
expect is for them to perform enough checks before they do so. Based on the information 
available to me, Im satisfied they did that here.  
I can also see that Ms B exceeded her account  limit on the 18 August 2014  and that in 2017 
Tesco agreed to a repayment plan which was ultimately not adhered to resulting in 
termination of the account. And I can see that Tesco also allowed Ms B some breathing 
space when she wrote  to them in July 2017  to say she was experiencing some difficulty. So I 
think Tesco  have acted  fairly here and Im not going  to ask them to remove any interest and 
charges because I dont  think theyve done anything wrong. And of course Ms B has had the 
benefit of the money the card provided.
I know Ms B will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same  conclusion 
as the investigator  and for similar  reasons.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Tesco  Personal  Finance 
PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0148816