K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the handling  of claims and the service provided by British Gas
Insurance Limited in relation to a central heating insurance policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in June 2020, part of which is copied below:
Mr B has held a central  heating insurance  policy  with British Gas for a number of years. He
made a claim in April 2018 when  his boiler stopped working and was leaking.  British Gas
said the heat exchanger  needed replacing but this was now obsolete;  as it could not find a
replacement heat exchanger the boiler  was beyond economic repair.  British Gas says the
policy doesnt cover  a replacement boiler  and so there is nothing more it could do.
Mr B is very unhappy with the service  provided  by British Gas.  Mr B says British Gass
engineers caused further damage to the boiler,  failed  to repair  it and it has not replaced it. 
The boiler has not worked since  April 2018. When complaining about  the handling of this 
claim, he has also raised a number  of other  issues, which Ive summarised below:
In late 2012,  British Gas attended  to a problem with the immersion  heater. Mr B says
he was advised  to wait until the following summer  to have it fixed,  as the engineers
were worried  about  breaking the boiler. Mr B says he called back  in August and
September 2013 to try and get this sorted out but British Gas had still not fixed it.
In 2015 his boiler pump was faulty.  British Gas sent an engineer  out who behaved
strangely and left without  fixing  the boiler. When Mr B complained he was asked if he
had smelt  the engineers breath (British  Gass representative implied the engineer
had been drinking). Mr B says British Gass engineer broke  the pump and so it
needed replacing. A second engineer came out and replaced the pump but it took
seven months. The second engineer also told Mr B he needed to have a power  flush
carried out and quoted  him £800 for this.
Mr B says the power  flush was only necessary as a result of British Gass earlier poor
work. When he called  British Gas to discuss this, it told him the power  flush  was not
required.
In 2018, the boiler was faulty again.  Four engineers  attended and didnt fix it but they
broke the gate valve in the airing  cupboard  and also cut a pipe in the attic.  A fifth
engineer then called and told him it would not replace the items  they had broken and
if he called  British Gas out again, hed be charged.
The engineer  was aggressive towards  him and he also stayed  parked  on his
driveway for 30 minutes.  When he contacted  British  Gas to report this, it was
suggested that this engineer was unreliable.
He found the part required available online and reconditioned  parts are available.
He has had to continually contact British Gas to try and resolve the issues with his
boiler and heating. It has still taken payment for the policy and even sent him
reminders for annual  services.
British Gas installed the 12 kw boiler but when discussing  a new boiler, it told him it
needed to be an 18 kw boiler.
He had to contact the boiler manufacturers himself, who told him the boiler  hasnt
been adequately serviced. British Gas only check the emissions  and do not clean
and adjust it, as is actually required.  And they only spend  15 minutes doing each
service.
Ref: DRN03485252Mr B wants  British  Gas to replace his boiler,  the gate valve in the airing cupboard  and the
broken pipe in the loft.
British Gas accepts that its engineers broke the gate valve and offered to replace it but says
it has been unable  to make an appointment to do so. British Gas has also made a number of
submissions, which Ive summarised  below:
It has annually serviced  the boiler as per the terms  and conditions  of the policy  and
in line with safety regulations. It has completed  all the necessary checks to ensure
the boiler was in a safe condition.
Mr Bs boiler went out of production on 1996,  and the manufacturers stopped  making
replacement parts in 2006. It told Mr B in 2006  that the boiler was therefore on the
reduced parts listing and it may not be able to get parts required to repair  any
breakdown. It was for Mr B to then decide  whether to keep the cover or not.
It sent copies of the terms  and conditions annually. This explained  the level of cover
and clarified the reduced parts listing.
After the boiler  broke down in 2018, it was unable to get the parts  required to fix it
from any of its preferred suppliers. Mr B did say he could find it online but it was
unable to find a reputable  supplier who stocked the required  parts. It did everything  it
could to try to obtain the parts. Its terms also make clear it wont use reconditioned
parts.
It had expected Mr B to contact it to arrange another  appointment to fit the
immersion heater in 2013, but didnt  hear from him. It fitted  this free of charge in
April 2018 in response to the complaint.
After Mr B complained, it cancelled  the policy in July 2018 and refunded the
premiums paid since April 2018 when the boiler  was capped off and condemned
(i.e. £78.41  in total, which was paid part by cheque and part bank transfer).
British Gas also paid Mr B £50 compensation for a delay in looking at his complaint  
and £30 towards temporary heaters.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt recommend that it be upheld.
The investigator said there is no cover under the policy unless [the boiler] is less than ten 
years old but Mr Bs boiler  was older than this. He was satisfied British Gas had made  
sufficient effort to try and get the part required to repair  the boiler but had been unable to get 
it. The investigator also didnt think British Gas had done anything wrong with regard to the
immersion heater, as there was no record of Mr B contacting it about this in 2013.
The investigator also told Mr B that we could not look into his complaint that British Gas
installed a 12 kilowatt boiler in 1996 and was now telling  him that was inadequate and he
needed an 18 kilowatt boiler. As this wasnt provided  as part of an insurance cover, it is not
something we can consider.
The investigator thought British Gass  offer of the refund, compensation and money  towards
heaters was reasonable and did not recommend that British  Gas do anything further.
Mr B doesnt  accept the investigators assessment. He says:
The investigator has effectively said he is lying about having chased  up British Gas
about the immersion  heater, when he said there was no record of him contacting it.
He has notes of all the people he spoke to and has not just made  up those names.
Just because British  Gas hasnt provided  a record of those calls, it is not fair to
assume they didnt  happen.
Ref: DRN03485253There are a number of errors and the investigator hasnt  taken his side of things  into
account.
He was told that he needed  an £800 part. When he complained  to British Gas about
this, it agreed he shouldnt have to pay for it.
As the investigator  hasnt been  able to resolve  the complaint, it has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
immersion heater
British Gas agrees  that the immersion  heater was to be replaced in late 2012. There  is a
record on its file that this was to be done in the summer of 2013. British Gas says it expected
Mr B to contact it about this. Mr B says he did, several times by phone  to British Gas and
that he also brought it to the attention of engineers who attended his property  on other
matters.
British Gas says it has no record of any calls from Mr B chasing  this up but it hasnt provided
copies of all its telephone notes. I have no reason to doubt  what Mr B has said about this. In
any case, in my opinion  it was not for Mr B to have  to chase  this up. British Gas had a
responsibility to carry out the work  and it should  not have been or Mr B to chase this up.
I am pleased  to note that the immersion  heater has now been replaced after Mr B
complained. However,  I consider that some compensation is appropriate for the delay in
doing so. I consider £150 to be appropriate.
leak claim
When British Gas inspected the boiler it found  the heat exchanger had split and was leaking.
British Gas says it couldnt  get a replacement heat exchanger  from any reputable  suppliers.
Mr B says he was able to find ones  online.
I have no evidence about what was available other than British Gass  statement that it
couldnt find parts. Ive seen no contemporaneous evidence of any search for parts from any
suppliers. However,  I also have  no evidence that the part was available. And I note,  the
boiler was last made in 1996 and the manufacturer stopped making  parts for it in 2006.
Overall therefore on the limited evidence that is available, I am not persuaded that it was
unreasonable to determine the boiler  as being beyond  economic repair. British  Gas is
entitled to only use parts from reputable  suppliers  and use new parts,  if repairing under the
policy. Mr B would of course  have  the choice to use second hand or reconditioned  parts  if he
wanted to have it repaired privately.  I do not therefore agree that British Gas is responsible
for replacing  Mr Bs boiler. Given this it follows that I also dont  consider  British Gas is
responsible for the time Mr B was without heating  and hot water after this claim.
pump claim
Mr B made a claim in March 2015, as his boiler  was overheating  and cutting  out. It was
diagnosed as a problem  with the pump. Mr B says it took seven  months to fix the boiler and
Ref: DRN03485254the pump was broken by a British Gas engineer and so had to be replaced.
British Gass notes  record  that an engineer attended in March  2015 but left without carrying
out any repairs: couple  of mins  work he left the property declining the job as he couldnt
work in those conditions. Ive not seen  any evidence  of any attempt to reschedule  the repair
visit. The pump was later replaced but this was not done until November 2015. This is not
reasonable. There has not been any explanation as to why this work was not carried  out
sooner and nothing to indicate that anything changed between those two appointments, It
would seem the boiler was working during that time albeit intermittently, as the fault made
the boiler cut out. I therefore consider that the sum of £250 compensation is appropriate for
the delay in dealing with this claim.
broken gate valve and pipe
British Gas accepts that its engineer snapped  the immersion heater valve off in its open
position. British  Gas initially said it would not replace  the valve as it is not needed, it is open
and not causing any damage.
I dont consider this to be reasonable. British Gas broke the valve  and as a result  apparently
had to cut off another pipe in the attic. It should make these good or pay cash  in lieu of a
repair. I have no evidence  about  how much it would cost to have this work done,  so I would
suggest £100 would be appropriate  compensation for this issue,  if Mr B would  prefer  a cash
settlement in lieu of British Gas replacing  the valve and repairing  the pipe. Either party  may
submit further evidence about  this in response  to this provisional  decision, if they do not
agree with this figure.
power flush
I can see British Gas recommended  and a quote was provided for a power flush.  Mr B was
advised that no sludge related problems would  be covered by the policy unless he had the
power flush done but that is in line with the policy terms and so I do not think this is
unreasonable. As there is no convincing evidence  it was wrong to advise this work,  I do not
intend to make any award in relation to this.
annual services
The Gas Safe website says theres  three  possible level of checks  that can be carried out on
gas appliances: a safety check; a gas installation safety check; and an annual  service.
The following  is an extract  from the gas safe website:  "Whats the difference  between a
safety check and a service? ... What is an Appliance Safety Check?  An appliance safety
check at a minimum includes  all of the checks and tests to ensure the appliance is safe to
operate... What is an Appliance Service? An appliance service will include all the above
checks and tests and any other specific checks, for inspection and/or cleaning of the
appliance as specified and detailed in the appliance  manufacturers instructions... Note:
some appliance  serving  regimes  provide an interim performance check  (annual) to be used
in order to determine the degree of dismantling the appliance and the level of servicing
required."
British Gass policy schedule, sent to Mr B each year said:  "Once a year well come round to
service your gas appliance to make  sure its running safely and efficiently".  And the policy
document says:  "Gas  appliance...whats covered?... an annual  service". The reader is then
referred to the definition  of annual service several pages further into the policy booklet, and
Ref: DRN03485255which says: "Annual service One of our engineers will visit your home  once a year to check
that your appliance, boiler or central  heating and ventilation is working safely  and in line with
relevant laws and regulations. Well also test the gases your appliance  and boiler produces.
If these tests show that its necessary to take your appliance or boiler apart  to adjust or clean
it, well do so."
It seems  clear  to me that British Gass  definition of an annual service  is not the same  as Gas
Safes definition or most peoples general understanding of what an annual service  would
entail. Gas Safe makes  clear that an annual service  should be carried  out in accordance with
the manufacturers instructions. I cant see that British Gas has made it sufficiently clear to
its policyholders  that this is not going  to be done with its version of an annual service.  While
the Gas Safe explanation has the rider that some servicing regimes might not always include
dismantling an appliance this doesnt state that it wont be in line with manufacturers
instructions. British Gas hasnt provided any evidence to show that its checks  would meet
the Gas Safe definition  of an annual service or most peoples  general understanding  of what
that means.  Essentially, therefore it seems  to me that British  Gass annual  service is a gas
safety check and so its misleading to call it an annual service,  when  that has a different
meaning to most people.  In any case, I dont  think the policy  is clear  enough.
It is generally considered  that a lack of proper servicing will shorten the life span of a boiler
and so I can understand Mr Bs concern about this. There is no convincing  evidence it has
shortened the lifespan of Mr Bs boiler,  or that it has caused any of the faults reported, which
would be difficult to establish. However,  I consider  that some compensation should  be paid
for the loss of expectation in this regard. I consider the sum of £200  to be appropriate.
continuation of cover and refund of premiums
Mr B is unhappy that he has continued to pay premiums when the boiler has been on the
reduced parts list for some time. British Gas says it has attended a number of times  and
managed to repair the boiler still, despite this and so Mr B has had the benefit of cover  over
that time.  British Gas also says it was up to him at each renewal to decide  whether it was
worth continuing  the cover and it made  clear  to him that there was a possibility of not being
able to get any parts needed. I do not consider British  Gas has acted unreasonably in this 
regard. It was able to continue repairing the boiler  until the 2018 claim.
British Gas also continued to take premiums for the policy after the boiler was capped  off
and determined to be beyond economic repair. I am pleased to note that British Gas has
now refunded the premiums Mr B paid after that but he should  not have had to complain  for
this to be done. The policy was of no benefit to Mr B after his boiler was capped  off and
British Gas should not have continued  to take payments and wait for him to complain. British
Gas has refunded the premiums taken but I consider it should  also pay an additional £25
compensation for this.
Ref: DRN03485256my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require British  Gas Insurance Limited to do the
following:
pay a total of £625 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its
handling of his policy (this is to include the £50 already  offered, so if that has already
been paid, British Gas only needs  to pay the remaining  £575); and
replace the gate valve and make good  the broken pipe;  or pay £100 in lieu of these
repairs.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered.
British Gass response to my provisional decision
British Gas does  not accept my provisional  decision and has made  the following 
submissions: 
It has provided details of all communications and theres no record  of Mr B contacting 
it about the immersion  heater.  In any case, as it is a back-up  water heater, whilst Mr 
Bs boiler  was working there was no urgency to replace it. There was good reason to 
postpone this work  until it was absolutely necessary and the impact  of this delay was 
minimal, as a replacement was arranged promptly as soon as it was required again 
(when the boiler breakdown occurred)  not because Mr B had complained specifically 
about this. Additional  electrical work was also carried out, which did not form part of 
the contract he had with British Gas. Compensation is not therefore justified.
In March 2015, an engineer attended the property  for 35 minutes and secured the 
pump housing; this is external to the pump  and would not have required any work  to 
the pump itself.  No issues were reported  about  the pump until November  2015,  when 
Mr B said the boiler was overheating and cutting out. An engineer went out to fix the 
problem but after a couple minutes,  he left the property politely declining  the job as 
he couldnt work in these conditions. The repair visit was rebooked for 20 November 
2015 and the repair to the pump was carried out. This was not an unreasonable  
timeframe. It is also important to note that sludge was present in the system and 
there were circulation problems as a result. Sludge is the natural build-up of deposits 
in the boiler or central heating system  as it corrodes  over time. The pump  is designed 
to pump  clean water around the central heating system and the presence of sludge 
indicates that the water quality was poor. It is therefore more  likely, based on the 
evidence available,  that the condition  of the central  heating system was the reason 
for the pump failure, rather than Mr Bs belief that a British  Gas engineer caused this.
Mr B alleges that the engineer snapped  the immersion heater (gate) valve.  There  is 
nothing in the notes regarding how it was snapped  off or when this occurred. 
However, individual components do deteriorate  over time and the risk of this 
happening would have been  greater given  the age of the system (installed circa 
1980). Whilst Mr B may consider that British Gas caused  this, this was not the result  
of negligence  on the part of the engineer.  A replacement valve was fitted in the loft 
on 9 April 2018 and this provided a suitable  means of isolation  for the immersion  
heater, which  was replaced the following day (10 April 2018). It was explained to Mr 
B that there was no justification for the original valve to be replaced (in the original 
location) because a suitable alternative  had already  been  installed elsewhere, our 
contractual obligations under  the policy were therefore fulfilled. The offer to return  
Ref: DRN03485257and replace the original valve in the original location  was made  as a gesture of 
goodwill, not because  of any technical  or contractual responsibilities, but Mr B did not 
respond with a suitable date at the time of the original investigation. As already 
explained, there was no impact  on the functionality of the system  or evidence of 
wrongdoing on the part of British Gas. It does not therefore agree that compensation 
is warranted for this. 
Mr B made his complaint when the boiler  was deemed to be irreparable, so it is not 
correct that it waited for him to complain before taking  any action in regard to 
cancelling the policy. It backdated  the refund  of premium to the date the boiler  
became inoperable, even though it visited the property after this date. It couldnt  have 
stopped the premiums  any earlier  as it was investigating whether it was appropriate 
to cancel the cover; this was not unreasonable given the complexity of the issues 
raised. Nevertheless, the refund  was arranged in July 2018,  when  Mr B specifically 
requested it (and prior to the conclusion of the complaint). Therefore, no 
compensation is justified in respect of this.
With regard to the annual services,  I awarded £200 compensation for Mr Bs loss of 
expectation in this regard, but it is unclear what Mr Bs expectations  were  in this 
regard. The boiler was more than 20 years  old when it stopped working  in 2018. The 
average lifespan of a boiler is between 10-15 years, therefore Mr Bs boiler exceeded 
average expectations. 
It has serviced the boiler  each year in accordance with the policy  terms, which state:  
British Gas will service  your boiler  to make sure its running safely and efficiently. 
There is no evidence of poor servicing in the case of Mr Bs boiler and so nothing that  
would warrant compensation.
In addition, British  Standard BS 7967:  2015  and the "Guide for the use of electronic 
portable combustion gas analysers for the measurement of carbon monoxide in 
dwellings and the combustion performance of domestic gas fired appliances": 
This says that the use of flue gas analyser, pioneered by British  Gas, has meant  that 
boilers dont always  need to be stripped down and cleaned  during each service. It 
says the evidence is that unnecessary dismantling and re-assembling of a boiler may 
cause a greater  risk of failure; and the use of analysers during a service can 
determine the specific interventions required for the boiler being serviced. 
When the boiler installed in Mr Bs property was produced, it pre-dated the 
widespread use of analysers and therefore  referenced the older style of servicing in 
its instructions. Modern boilers  now quote  specific CO and C02 readings  as part of 
their service schedule - this being  the primary  driver  as to how much internal cleaning 
is required. A modern  service schedule is best described as a series of checks with 
action being taken when the results are outside  the given  parameters. BS 7967: 2015 
is based on the British Gas service policy and is the only published British Standard 
which covers boiler servicing  using  a flue gas analyser. British Gass own service 
policy exceeds the requirements of the standard, requiring  engineers to consult the 
manufacturers servicing instructions for the boiler and perform any safety specific  
requirements detailed  by the manufacturer.  It is therefore maintained that British 
Gass approach to servicing is in line with the relevant laws and regulations and it 
doesnt agree that its literature is misleading in any way.
Mr Bs response to my provisional  decision
Mr B has also made some further  comments in response to my provisional decision, 
summarised below: 
Ref: DRN03485258He has been  informed the part required to repair  the boiler is available  from a 
reputable suppliers with manufacturers guarantee. He contacted the manufacturer  in 
April 2018 and was told new parts  were  available; large stocks are held for some  
time after production  ceases. He told British Gas this but it did not search for the part 
from any suppliers and didnt contact the manufacturer. 
The repair of the gate valve and repairing the pipe in the attic could costs 
considerably more than the £100 I have suggested.  
He assumed the boiler British Gas installed was the correct size for his house but 
then in 2018 he was told it was much  too small and he needed an 18kw  boiler  (rather  
than the 12kw  boiler  it had installed).
British Gas has caused many issues and damage to his home and it should now put 
this right by installing  a new boiler  of the correct  size.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
immersion heater
Mr B says he chased British Gas up about  the immersion  heater repeatedly.  I noted in my 
provisional decision that I had not seen any documentary record of this. However,  I also 
stated that I did not think this was for him to have  chased British Gas for this to be done. 
British Gas says the postponement of this work was justified and I note that Mr B did 
apparently agree to this at the time. But I remain of the opinion that it was not for Mr B to 
chase this up with British Gas direct, or raise it with its engineers at other times. 
British Gas says the immersion heater  was replaced shortly after the boiler broke down  
when it was necessary  to use it  and so any inconvenience for Mr B was minimal. I do not 
agree. While Mr B apparently agreed to it not being replaced in 2012, it was not for him to 
chase it and it should have been done  in a timely  manner after that. If it had been,  it would 
have been available for Mr B to use at any point  and he would not have had to have it 
replaced as an emergency  basis after his boiler  broke down. 
British Gas attended on 5 April 2018 to the boiler  breakdown and referred to some  
confusion about the immersion heater in its final response letter   I dont think there is any 
confusion  it was meant  to be replaced by the summer of 2013. The immersion  heater was 
replaced on 10 April 2018,  so Mr B was without hot water for five days as a result. If the 
immersion heater had been replaced in 2012  or 2013, this would not have been the case. 
While I note British Gas says it completed  some  electrical work  as well, which would have  
been chargeable, I remain of the opinion that £150  is appropriate compensation for this 
delay. 
pump
The records  show there was a problem with the pump dealt with in March  2015. British Gas 
says this was just in relation to the pump  housing and was a separate  issue  from that 
reported to it in November 2015. The notes provided to me are not clear  about this; there is 
no record on the papers  provided about what the reported problem was in March 2015  and 
why securing the pump housing would  have resolved this.  
Ref: DRN03485259Mr B says he continued to have  issues with the boiler after March 2015 but again there is no 
record of what was reported between then and November 2015, when the pump was 
replaced and pipes worked  on. Given this, I am not minded to change my opinion on this 
matter and still consider  that £250  compensation is appropriate. 
Broken gate valve and pipe
British Gas says it didnt break the valve, or if it did it would have  been  inevitable given 
deterioration over time of the various central heating  system components. It also says a 
replacement valve was fitted in the loft on 9 April 2018 and this provided a suitable means of 
isolation for the immersion heater; and it explained to Mr B that there was no justification for 
the original valve  to be replaced (in the original location) because  a suitable alternative had 
already been installed  elsewhere.  British Gas says it offered to replace the original valve  in 
the original location as a gesture of goodwill, not because of any technical or contractual 
responsibilities, but Mr B did not respond  with a suitable date at the time of the original 
investigation. 
While the valve might not have broken due to any negligence, British  Gas would still have a 
responsibility to fix it. It says now that it explained to Mr B that the valve  was effectively 
replaced but in a different  location, Ive seen no contemporaneous  evidence  of any such  
discussion about the location  of the valve with Mr B. British Gas also earlier said it was 
broken off in an open position and so not causing any problem. It also offered to replace  it in 
the original position. 
I still remain of the opinion that it should have been replaced in the original  position.  Mr B  
says the repairs  will possibly cost a lot more than the £100  I have proposed.  However, there 
is no quote for the work required and so on the basis of the evidence available  to me I 
remain of the opinion that £100 in lieu of this work  is not unreasonable.  Alternatively, Mr B 
can opt for British Gas to do this work if he prefers.  
refund of premium
British Gas had declared the boiler  irreparable  and refused any cover for it in early April 
2018. It says it was reasonable to continue  to collect premiums until July 2018, while this 
was investigated  and further visits took place during that period. However, no repairs  or 
claims were  dealt  with after the date it condemned the boiler, so nothing was provided  in 
exchange for the premiums after that date.   
I remain of the opinion, it was not reasonable for it to continue and only refund  the premiums  
in July 2018 when Mr B specifically asked for the refund.  Mr B had raised a complaint about  
the repair of his boiler in April 2018  but the refund was only given when he specifically 
complained about that issue. He should not have had to do so. I remain  of the opinion  that 
£25 is appropriate  compensation  for this. 
Ref: DRN034852510annual service
British Gas has provided details of the British Standard  guide  for the use of flue gas 
analysers when servicing boilers. However, nothing in that affects  the information from the 
Gas Safe Register, which says there  is a difference between  a gas safety check and an 
annual service. This makes clear  that some  cleaning of internal  parts  would be expected in 
an annual service, in particular the heat exchanger.  
Mr B clearly  had an expectation  that there  would be some internal  checks and cleaning, 
rather than solely gas emissions checks, as he raised  this issue  as part of his complaint. I 
havent suggested that a boiler would need to be stripped down entirely  that is not what 
Gas Safe says is required but it does say there would be more than a gas safety  check. 
While British Gas has provided  information which it says justifies the way it carries  this out it 
does not change my opinion  that most consumers would consider an annual service to entail 
more than is routinely  done under this policy, for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision. There is no convincing evidence that this caused  any loss of lifespan of the boiler. 
The main  point is that Mr B was not getting  the service he thought he was paying for. I 
remain of the opinion that compensation of £200  is appropriate for this. 
leak claim
Mr B is still adamant that British Gas could have repaired  the boiler in 2018  and that it should  
now replace his boiler. 
He has said again  that parts are available  from reputable suppliers. I have not seen any 
independent evidence to support this. I have also searched online myself. While I have not 
exhausted all suppliers  by any means,  I have  not found the heat exchanger  for Mr Bs make  
and model boiler  available.  I am therefore not persuaded that it was wrong to declare the 
boiler as irreparable  in 2018. British Gas has no obligation  to replace the boiler  in that 
situation, given  the age of the boiler  at the time.  (The policy only provides replacement  
boilers where the insured  boiler is less than 10 years old.) 
I note Mr B also says again that the wrong size boiler was installed  by British Gas initially,  
but I cannot address this part of the complaint as it was not done as part of any insurance 
obligation. 
I therefore remain of the opinion  that British Gas is not responsible for replacing  the boiler 
and is not responsible for the trouble caused  to Mr B by his boiler not working since  2018.
Ref: DRN034852511my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require British Gas Insurance Limited to do the
following:
pay a total of £625 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its
handling of his policy (this is to include the £50 already  offered, so if that has already
been paid, British Gas only needs  to pay the remaining  £575); and
replace the gate valve and make good  the broken pipe;  or pay £100 in lieu of these
repairs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0348525