K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the increases on his home insurance policy,  held with U K Insurance 
Limited (UKI).
background
Mr L took out his home insurance policy with UKI in 1993. 
In 1996 Mr L went  abroad  to work  on a rolling  yearly contract. This meant that his property 
was unoccupied for most of the year with Mr L returning for a short  period of time once or 
twice a year. Mr L returned to living full time at his property  in 2015.
In 1996, an additional unoccupancy loading was added to Mr Ls premium.  In 1996, after 
this was applied,  Mr Ls premium was £505.33.  Mr Ls policy  steadily increased in price and 
in 2005 Mr Ls premium was £747.60. 
Due to a misunderstanding on UKIs  behalf,  it removed the unoccupancy loading  in 2006 as 
it thought Mr L had returned to living in the property  full time. This meant the policy  cost fell 
to £557.55.
Mr L was required to manually renew  his policy  each year up until 2007 when the policy 
then automatically  renewed each year.  This happened for each year until 2015, when 
Mr Ls policy cost £870.26.
In November 2015 Mr L contacted UKI to let it know he had returned home from his position  
abroad. He wanted to get the unoccupancy loading removed and to seek  a reduction in the 
cost of his insurance.
As UKI had already  removed it in 2006, it said that there was no unoccupancy loading on 
Mr Ls policy. But it offered a discount of around  £80.
Mr L complained to UKI as he wanted  a more substantial reduction  in his premium.
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr L brought his complaint to our service. Within  his 
complaint, Mr L explained  that he had obtained several quotes  for alternative home 
insurance with different  providers which cost around  £200 for the year.  Because of this, Mr L 
says he doesnt  think he had been  treated fairly by UKI and it had taken advantage by 
unfairly increasing the cost of the policy every year. 
Mr L says he was charged too much and should  be reimbursed for the extra he considered 
he had paid over the years. Mr L wanted UKI to refund 40% of the total premiums  he had 
paid over the lifetime  of the policy.
Our investigator thought UKI hadnt  treated Mr L unfairly. As Mr L disagreed, the matter has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN00369122Mr L clearly feels  very strongly  that UKI hasnt treated him fairly. And Mr L has submitted a 
lot of correspondence and documentation  that he considers supports his complaint. In 
reaching my decision Id like to assure  Mr L that I have carefully considered all the 
information provided.
what cant I look at within this complaint? 
I would like to make it clear that I dont  have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost. I would be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should operate   
and thats not my role. 
Insurers will assess and treat risk differently  and will charge different premiums  based on 
that assessment  of risk. One insurer may place a significant risk on a property whereas 
another insurer might not  and there can differing factors and reasons for each insurers  
decision. Ultimately, its up to an insurer to decide what  it charges for insurance  and I dont 
have the power  to tell an insurer whether that price is right or wrong.
So within my decision, and this important, I cant look at what UKI felt the cost of covering 
Mr Ls property was  and I cant say whether that cost was right or wrong.
what can I look at?
I can look at whether UKI treated  Mr L fairly  throughout the time he held his policy.  If I think  
something went wrong and UKI didnt treat Mr L fairly, I can see what  I think  fair 
compensation would be to put things right.
Having reviewed Mr Ls journey, I dont  uphold his complaint. I know  this will come  as a 
disappointment to Mr L, so Id like to explain  why.
Mr Ls policy from 1996-2007
Mr L, in 1996, informed UKI that he was taking  up a position abroad  and that his property  
would be unoccupied for extended periods. Following this, Mr Ls policy  was amended  and 
an additional  unoccupancy  loading  was added to Mr Ls overall premium. Given Mr Ls 
property was to be unoccupied for most of the time, it doesnt seem  unfair  that UKI increased 
Mr Ls premium  to cover the inherent risk  for example  if there was a water leak and it 
wasnt found for a while, the cost of repair could  be quite high. Mr L has provided a letter 
from 1996 which shows the policy changes. And I can only assume he was happy with the 
premium offered to him by UKI at that time.  
I also note Mr L had to manually renew his policy each year  up until 2007. This means that 
Mr L had to contact UKI each year to accept and pay to renew  the policy. So presumably 
Mr L was happy  with any amendments and the ongoing costs  during that time. 
Having looked  at the premiums Mr L was charged in that time, I can see there were  small 
increases each year. But as Mr L was having to contact UKI to pay and renew every year, he 
was aware of, and accepted, the cost each time. 
So I cant say that from 1996 up until 2007,  UKI had treated Mr L unfairly. Mr L was 
engaging with UKI each year.
Mr Ls policy from 2007 onwards
Ref: DRN00369123In 2007 UKIs renewal  procedure changed and Mr Ls policy  became a policy  which 
automatically renewed each year. This meant  Mr L no longer had to engage  with the renewal  
process each year.
With automatic renewals there is a chance  that if a consumer doesnt  engage  with the 
renewal process or shop  around, they can find they are paying much  more for their cover  
than a new customer. 
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal but 
where they knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with 
the renewals process, they should  have  taken care to make sure they treated these 
consumers fairly  and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour  by 
increasing their premiums just because  they didnt engage. 
Mr L didnt engage  with his automatic renewals until he returned  to living in his property full 
time in 2015.  
So, and this is important  in Mr Ls case, I need to satisfy myself that UKI didnt take 
advantage of Mr L in the period that his policy automatically renewed. 
Because Mr L didnt  engage, and his policy continued to increase, it could be argued 
something went wrong. 
Normally I would look to see at what point  UKI should have known  Mr L was no longer 
engaging and that it didnt  take advantage of Mr Ls behaviour by increasing their premiums  
unfairly from that point.  I think in 2011,  around  four years  after Mr Ls policy started  auto-
renewing, UKI should have realised he wasnt engaging with the price. 
If I thought UKI had taken advantage of Mr L at that stage, I would tell UKI to pay 
compensation. One way would be for UKI to pay the difference  between what  he paid in 
2011 and what  he paid in the five years after then.
But in Mr Ls case, UKI removed the unoccupancy loading from Mr Ls premium in 2006, as 
it thought Mr L had returned to live in his property full time. So Mr Ls premiums from 2006  
up until 2015 were  less than the amount UKI says should  have  been  charged.  
So while Mr L didnt engage with UKI in the period that his policy  automatically renewed,  and 
his premium increased during this time, UKI were  charging him less than it should have 
done. That means that, even if UKI did increase the price because Mr L didnt engage, he 
was still paying  a lot less than he should  have done  to insure his home.
So while things may not have gone as they should  have done,  and Mr L wasnt  engaging 
during the automatic renewal period with the premiums continuing to increase,  I find that 
Mr L hasnt lost out.
the alternative quotes for home insurance  Mr L obtained
Mr L obtained alternative home insurance quotes that were cheaper than his existing UKI 
policy. So Mr L thinks he was overcharged.  But it is important to remember that Mr Ls 
property was unoccupied until 2015. UKI undercharged him for a significant  period during 
that time.  And when Mr L returned to the property  full time, Mr L contacted UKI to see if his 
Ref: DRN00369124insurance could  be reduced. UKI were  willing to offer a discount  which  Mr L didnt think  was 
enough  and at that point decided to shop  around obtaining cheaper insurance quotes. 
The home insurance market, especially in more  recent years, has become  increasingly  
competitive. It isnt uncommon  for insurers to initially price  a policy at a lower  cost than the 
true cost associated with the risk of insuring a property. This is to attract new customers. 
Insurers aim to keep the consumer and recoup that cost over the subsequent years.  I dont 
think this unfair. 
So, while Mr L obtained alternative home  insurance policy quotes in and around 2015  that 
were a lot cheaper  than his existing UKI policy, they were likely to be heavily discounted. 
So I dont  think it would  be fair to compare the quotes Mr L obtained against the policy  he 
held with UKI in 2015. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0036912