complaint
Mr A is unhappy with his home contents  insurer, Gresham  Insurance Company Limited, 
because it declined to settle a claim hed made  for lost items  of jewellery.
Any reference to Gresham  includes its agents.
background
Mr A made a claim on his home insurance  policy in February 2019,  explaining  that he 
couldnt find a collection of gold jewellery. He said he kept the jewellery in a padlocked  
suitcase in a cupboard  in his home. Mr A had recently moved house and explained that hed 
moved the suitcase  containing the jewellery  from the cupboard in his old home, to his new 
home. When Mr A opened the suitcase, he found the jewellery wasnt there anymore.
Gresham visited Mr A in March 2019 to assess the claim. In reviewing Mr As claim, it 
explained that Mr A hadnt done enough  to prove ownership of the jewellery. It also thought 
there wasnt enough evidence to show what had actually  happened to the items, as Mr A 
was unsure how they came to be lost.
In light of the above, Gresham declined Mr As claim. Mr A thought this was unfair and asked 
our service  to look into things. Our investigator  reviewed the case  and felt that because  Mr A 
couldnt say what  had happened  to the jewellery, he hadnt done enough to prove an insured 
event happened  under the policy terms. Mr A disagreed with this and asked  for an 
ombudsmans decision. So, the case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. I know Mr A will be disappointed with this, so Ill explain my reasons below.
Under the terms of the policy, Gresham is entitled to ask the policyholder for evidence  to 
prove their claim  this is outlined in the Proof of Value  and Ownership section of the policy 
terms. It says:
It is your responsibility to prove any loss therefore  we recommend that you keep receipts, 
valuation, photographs,  instruction booklets and guarantee cards to help with your claim.
K820x#14
Ref: DRN0165410K820x#14Taking the above into account, Gresham didnt think Mr A did enough  to demonstrate  
proof of ownership. In particular, it said that whilst Mr A was able to provide two 
valuations for the jewellery in support of his claim,  these were  dated in 2013  and 2014.  
So they werent enough to evidence ownership of the items around the time Mr A was 
claiming on his insurance policy.
When asked whether he could provide any photographs of the jewellery being worn, Mr A 
explained he wasnt able to due to cultural reasons. Ive thought carefully about this, and I 
appreciate Mr As reasons for not being  able to provide photographs of the jewellery. But 
Ive also considered that its not unreasonable for insurers to ask for policyholders to 
evidence that they were  in possession of the items  being claimed  for.
Given that its Mr As responsibility  to sufficiently prove his loss, as outlined  in the policy  
terms, I can understand why Gresham doesnt  think the two valuations  provided were 
sufficient in the circumstances. And because Mr A was unable  to provide any other  
documentation to prove his loss, including photographs, I dont think  Mr A has done 
enough to prove ownership of the items.
Ive also considered that Mr A isnt able to say what he thinks happened to the jewellery, 
and is unsure about how these came to be lost. Mr A said he didnt think the jewellery 
was stolen and thought  it was more likely that the items had indeed  been lost. But when 
completing a lost property  report,  Mr A said he was unsure whether the loss occurred at 
his previous address, or his new address. And, he wasnt able to provide further  insight 
into how the items disappeared.
In the circumstances, given that Mr A is unable to provide an account of how the 
jewellery disappeared,  or substantiate his ownership  of the items, I dont consider it 
unreasonable for Gresham to have declined the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2020
Hana Yousef
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0165410