K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  isnt paying a claim for some equipment kept at 
his commercial property under his property owners  insurance policy.
background
Mr As property  suffered  a fire and a claim was made. Most of the items were eventually  
dealt with but some equipment which Mr A didnt  own wasnt  included  within  the claim 
settlement. UKI said it didnt cover such items and pointed out the exclusion for property  
more specifically insured.  Mr A appointed a loss assessor (Mr C) to continue  with the claim 
but as agreement couldnt be reached  so he brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Mr A didnt  have an insurable interest 
in the equipment as it didnt belong to him  it belonged  to Mr Q. She said as Mr Q owned 
the equipment  it was his responsibility.  Mr C said Mr A had a legal  responsibility.  But our 
investigator said there was a difference between legal responsibility and legal liability.  She 
said a policyholder can be responsible for items without being  liable for them.  So Mr A might 
be liable  if he was negligent. But Mr A didnt cause  the fire he wasnt negligent. So even  
though responsible hes not legally liable. Our investigator said no evidence to show  any 
arrangements agreed between the parties  had been provided despite UKIs  request. So she 
said that UKI had acted  reasonably when  it declined to pay for Mr Qs equipment.
Unhappy with this Mr A asked for his decision to be passed to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I understand the points  being  made by Mr A and Mr C I think  UKI has acted 
reasonably. Theres  no denying who owns the equipment  and that is Mr Q. Mr Q isnt party  
to the policy  and no extra cover has been  requested, to include the specific equipment that 
he owns, within this policy.
The policy does clearly  confirm that landlords  contents include things that Mr A is 
responsible for but it also stipulates  that it excludes  property more specifically insured. 
Although Mr C has said theres no other cover operating for Mr Qs items there are also 
details on the file confirming that Mr Q takes  the equipment away  from the property on a 
regular basis. The equipment doesnt permanently reside at Mr As and the impression given 
from what Mr A and Mr Q have said is that theres  no policy in place to cover  Mr Qs 
equipment. Mr C still contends that there  is a legal requirement on Mr A under this policy.  
However, theres no cover noted  under the policy and no documentation  to show  costs,  
charges, etc. The inference being  that Mr Q only has cover for his own equipment when it is 
at Mr As property and no cover at any other  time wherever Mr Q may take it. Based on this 
evidence I think UKI acted reasonably when it declined the claim.
If Mr A owned the items then Id expect the policy to operate. But he doesnt Mr Q does and 
so Mr A has no insurable interest in the equipment.  Our investigator made the distinction 
between responsibility  and liability and Ive pointed this out above.
Ref: DRN09772642Mr Q has provided  a witness statement  referring to his arrangements firstly with Mr A and 
then subsequently with the tenant  of the property. However, that just highlights  how remote 
Mr A is from Mr Q and his equipment.  I think  this confirms  that UKI acted reasonably when it 
declined to deal with the claim for Mr Qs equipment.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0977264