K820x#14complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the amount of compensation Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) has offered to 
settle his complaint about a mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out 
alongside his credit card.
background
Mr N took out a PPI policy alongside a credit card in 1999. The PPI premium was paid by 
adding it to the account balance each month, so interest was charged on it when there was a 
balance on the account. 
Mr N complained to Lloyds that the PPI had been  mis-sold. Lloyds didnt  agree to uphold his 
complaint but said it would pay back to him some  excess commission  and profit share  that 
had been paid as part of his PPI premiums. 
Mr N wasnt happy with what  Lloyds  had said and brought his complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator recommended  that Lloyds should uphold the complaint that the PPI was mis-
sold. Lloyds agreed  and made a further  offer and payment of compensation to give Mr N full 
compensation for the mis-sold policy. 
Mr N was still unhappy as he thought  the compensation should be more and he was also 
unhappy that a claim  made on the PPI had been  deducted as he said he had never made  a 
claim. Mr N also feels he should get some  additional  compensation for distress and 
inconvenience because  he says Lloyds delayed dealing with his complaint. 
Our adjudicator said what Lloyds had offered was fair. Mr N remained unhappy and asked  
for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has now agreed to uphold Mr Ns s complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold.  So in 
this decision I am not looking  at how the PPI came  to be sold,  I am only looking at what is 
fair compensation to settle  the complaint. 
Businesses have over a number of years developed methods of calculating compensation 
for mis-sold  PPI with credit cards. This takes the approach of restructuring the account  to 
show what the account would have looked like if the PPI were  removed from it. Each  
business has developed a calculator to adjust  the balance by removing the PPI premiums  
and the interest  that was cause by the premiums being in the account. This shows  how 
much extra a consumer  has paid for the PPI in the account. The calculators also work  out 
when a consumer  may have been  out of pocket for the costs  of the PPI and calculates 
simple interest on these amounts as additional  compensation.
An adaptation of the calculator has also been developed to calculate compensation for 
excess commission and profit share included in the PPI premiums. This enables the refund 
of the excess commission  that is to be refunded  when the PPI wasnt  mis-sold.
Ref: DRN08781852When Mr N first complained about the PPI in 2018  Lloyds didnt agree it was mis-sold. But it 
did say that Mr N was owed some excess commission and profit  share. So Lloyds  paid 
£4,211.11 (after tax) in compensation for this to Mr N. This refunded  the excess commission  
and profit share and also included 8% simple  interest as compensation for the time Mr N 
was out of pocket.  From  the compensatory interest, Lloyds deducted basic  rate tax as 
required by HM Customs and Revenue. 
When Mr N brought his complaint to this service  our adjudicator recommended that the mis-
sale complaint should  be upheld in full and so Mr N should be refunded the full costs of the 
PPI, less what he had already  been paid for the excess  commission  element. Lloyds agreed 
to comply with this recommendation.
So Lloyds then calculated  how much  Mr N had paid for the total costs of the PPI. It also took 
into account that in 2005  Mr N had made  a successful  claim on the policy  and been  paid 
£1,505.97 for that claim. 
The purpose of the compensation for mis-sold PPI is to put a consumer as far as possible in 
the position they would have been in if they had never taken out the policy.  And if Mr N 
hadnt had the policy then he wouldnt have been paid the claim. So it is fair it is taken  into 
account when  calculating the compensation due to Mr N for the mis-sold PPI.
The claim was paid to Mr Ns credit  card account  in two payments  both made to the account 
in October 2005.  The insurer  responsible for paying  the claim has confirmed the amounts 
and these can be seen  as credits to the account  on the October 2005 statement. So I am 
satisfied that a successful claim was paid to Mr N. 
Because this claim reduced the costs of the PPI at the time for Mr N, Lloyds has adjusted 
the interest caused  by the PPI in the credit  card account to reflect  this, which is fair.
Overall Lloyds has calculated the total compensation due to Mr N for the mis-sold  PPI was 
£12,750.05, including the compensatory interest before tax. This amount has been adjusted  
to take account  of the claim payment and the previous payment Mr N had received for the 
excess commission and profit share and also to pay the income tax on the compensatory  
interest. This left £5,548.47 to be paid to Mr N and Lloyds sent a cheque to him for this 
amount which  was cashed. So in total Mr N has been paid £9,759.58 in compensation for 
the mis-sold PPI., taking  account  of the payment made for the excess commission  and the 
additional.
The approach taken by Lloyds in its calculators  has been accepted  by this service as being 
fair. I have looked at the calculations undertaken by Lloyds in this complaint and can see it 
has used the approach  I would expect, and I think what it has paid to Mr N is fair 
compensation.
I know Mr N is unhappy with the calculation as some  of the entries in the calculation dont 
match exactly the amounts on the statements he has. He quotes, as an example, September 
2013 concerning the amount of the payment made. The statement shows a payment made 
of £268.70 but the calculator shows a zero payment. The start and end balances  on both the 
statement and in the calculation are identical.
The statement  also indicates that the minimum payment due the following month  will include 
a missed payment.  And I note on the calculation from Lloyds a charge was made  the 
Ref: DRN08781853following month (October 2013), presumably for the missed payment in September.  So this 
all indicates the payment  for September was not actually cleared on the account.
If you add all the debit  entries on the account  for September 2013, taken from the Lloyds 
calculation, this comes to £268.64.  Removing this from the total transactions shown on the 
statement, of £537.34, gives  a figure  of £268.70. The amount  shown  on the statement as the 
payment for September 2013 is also £268.70.  
Although originally a payment for £268.70 is shown on the statement, it seems this failed, 
and an adjustment  was made for the failed  payment.  Thus,  on the statement, the 
transactions total is shown as £537.34 which  includes an adjustment  for the failed payment. 
The calculation just shows a zero payment, rather than an additional  debit transaction. So 
there is a reason why the actual amounts on the statement and in the calculation are 
different, but the overall outcome is the same and correct.
Repayments shown  in the reconstruction of the account may also be different at certain  
times to the actual  repayments made. This is because Mr N was generally paying the 
minimum amount due based on the balance outstanding. So the calculator assumes the 
same applied to the reconstruction  and shows a slightly different repayment amount. But 
where Mr N paid a different amount to the minimum payment, for example by paying a round 
figure, the calculator generally assumes  the same rounded amount would be paid, so the 
figures then would be the same.
Mr N has also commented on the entries in the calculation from January to December 1999. 
During this period Lloyds does not have the actual  data for Mr Ns account so it has had to 
make some assumptions as to what the balance may have been  and how much PPI was 
charged. Mr N has said he has no idea where  Lloyds has got the figures it has used.
Lloyds has taken the average  of the first 12 months  of known balances and used the 
average of this as the amount that was the balance in December 1999. It has then gradually  
reduced that amount down to zero, working  backwards, to when the account opened in 
January 1999.  It has then calculated the PPI costs based on those figures. This is a method  
often used by businesses to make  reasonable assumptions about  unknown data periods and 
is considered to be a fair approach.
Mr N has used some on line calculators to work out what may be due for the PPI 
compensation. These however only provide a simple approach, not taking into account the 
actual figures each month and any adjustments. For example, when the claim was paid and 
so Mr N wasnt out of pocket for this amount, or to account for differing monthly repayments. 
Although Mr N may feel some  of the figures used in the calculation are unclear, there are 
adjustments made for all sorts of reasons, but reasonable assumptions have been made and 
the calculator  makes  the necessary adjustments to reach  a fair compensation figure. 
Overall in this case I think the calculation undertaken by Lloyds  has reached a fair amount of 
compensation which has been  paid to Mr N. Whilst I have not covered in detail every point 
raised, I hope my explanations on some of the points has helped  reassure Mr N that the 
calculation and offer is fair.
Mr N has also asked for information about  the tax deducted by Lloyds. HM Revenue  & 
Customs requires Lloyds  to take off tax from the 8% compensatory  interest and Lloyds must 
Ref: DRN08781854give Mr N a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off, if he asks for one. So Mr N would 
need to contact Lloyds about  this if he needs it.
Mr N has also said he thinks he should get some compensation for the delays that occurred  
in Lloyds dealing  with his complaint. He says it took from April 2018 to February  2019  for 
Lloyds to complete  its initial investigation  and make an offer.
From the documents that have been provided I note that when Mr N first took the complaint  
to Lloyds, he was represented by a third party. The forms submitted were dated  May 2018. 
A letter sent by Lloyds  in November 2018  indicates  no signed authority had been  received 
by Lloyds which showed authorisation for the third party to act for Mr N. In December 2018 
Mr N indicated to Lloyds  he wanted to remove the third party as his representative and deal 
with Lloyds direct. Lloyds  sent its final response letter to Mr N at the end of January 2019 
and he contacted them on 2 February about  this.
Complaints do take time to deal with and it is unclear how efficient Mr Ns own 
representative was in responding to Lloyds after the first submissions were made and Lloyds 
had been in contact with that representative.  The eight weeks  standard time to investigate  
would only start from when Lloyds was satisfied  there was a valid complaint and properly  
authorised representative. Once Mr N was acting for himself  and no authorisation was 
needed, it only took around  six weeks  for Lloyds to respond with its conclusions. Lloyds has 
apologised to Mr N for its service if it wasnt as expected.
Overall, Im not satisfied  that delays were  all caused by Lloyds  in this case. And I dont  think 
Mr N suffered any exceptional delays in the way Lloyds dealt with his case. An apology  has 
been provided and Im not directing Lloyds to do anything more.  
In summary  I am satisfied that the calculations undertaken  by Lloyds, that have been  
provided to Mr N, are fair. And that the compensation offered and paid by Lloyds is therefore 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  So, I am not upholding this complaint. 
 
my final decision
I think the compensation Lloyds Bank  Plc has calculated and paid to Mr N for the mis-sold 
PPI is fair and I am not upholding  this complaint that any more is due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0878185