K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that Heritage Automotive Ltd (Heritage) mis-sold a guaranteed asset 
protection (GAP) policy.
background
Mr J bought a car on finance from Heritage in 2009.  The finance term expired in 2013. Mr J 
complained, in 2018, that Heritage had mis-sold him a GAP policy in 2009. Amongst other 
things he said: its salesman was aggressive  and forceful; it didnt include the policy  details 
separately on the payment plan; and it didn't provide the policys  paperwork.
Mr J brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't think  there  was evidence Heritage 
had done anything wrong. Mr J asked for the matter to be escalated to an ombudsman,  so 
it's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Mr Js thinks that Heritage used sharp practice  to pressure  him into buying a GAP policy. But 
the events he complained  about took place over nine years ago. And from the limited  papers 
available, apart  from Mr Js comments,  theres no evidence that a policy was sold or that 
Mr J had paid a premium for it. So I don't have any supporting evidence that a policy was 
sold, let alone  mis-sold.
Mr Js said that when  he initially complained to Heritage it told him it agreed there had been  
some policies sold incorrectly.  And it offered him a goodwill gesture to put things right.  But 
he said it later removed  that offer when it learnt Mr J no longer had the car. But Heritage has 
explained that the business had changed hands  some years ago. And, following that change  
of ownership, its new owners identified  that some policies sold in 2013 hadn't  followed the 
correct process. 
But Mr Js wasn't a sale affected by that situation,  as he bought his car years  before those 
events. So I don't think the fact that Heritage identified some  issues with sales  in 2013  
means that it must  have mis-sold a GAP policy to Mr J in 2009.  It follows that I don't think it 
would be fair to conclude that Heritage mis-sold  a GAP policy to Mr J in 2009.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0150998