K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Santander  UK Plc (when  it was trading as Abbey National,  but Ill just refer 
to Santander from now on) mis-sold  them a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out PPI alongside a mortgage  that started in 2003. They arranged this 
during a meeting in November 2002.
The policy protected Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage monthly repayments and covered them  both 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion. 
Mr and Mrs R mainly said that the policy cost wasnt explained and their sick pay benefits,  
along with their savings and other policies they held, meant that PPI wasnt  needed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no paperwork available now to show how PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs R. But as this 
happened a long time ago, I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs R or Santander to have kept this. 
Santander says that during the meeting  when  Mr and Mrs R arranged the PPI the 
representative wouldve  gone through the Paymentcare policy  with them  and provided 
Mr and Mrs R with all the information  required to make an informed decision  including  the 
optionality, the costs and the benefits,  significant  exclusions  and limitations  as well as its 
suitability for them.  Ive seen nothing to suggest that Santander  didn't  follow its normal sales  
process when it sold PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
Theres nothing mentioned on Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage application that suggests the PPI 
was included with the mortgage. Mr and Mrs R wouldve  had to fill in a separate  application 
form to take out the PPI. 
And it appears Mr and Mrs R mustve decided they wanted the PPI. I say this because 
Santander sent them a welcome letter shortly after the meeting saying Welcome  to 
Paymentcare (this is what Santander  called its PPI).  And it included  details of the cover 
theyd taken out. Mr and Mrs R couldve queried the PPI then if this wasnt  something they 
wanted. But, from what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that happened.
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs R mightve forgotten  some of the details of 
this sale as it was so long ago. This means  that what Mr and Mrs R say isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. I have to look at everything Ive been told 
and sent and decide what I think is most likely.
Ref: DRN03207252On balance, I think it wouldve been  clear to Mr and Mrs R that it was up to them to say if 
they wanted to take out PPI and it was added to the account when they chose the cover  they 
wanted to have. 
Santander says it recommended the PPI and it looks like it was suitable based on what Ive 
seen of Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time. 
Mr and Mrs R were both eligible for the policy. 
The way the benefit was shared between them suggests this was something  they probably  
discussed. And the split looks reasonable to me, giving Mr R as the main earner a slightly  
larger share of the benefit. 
The PPI couldve  paid out for up to 12 months  per claim and Mr and Mrs R couldve made 
repeated claims.  So the policy wouldve provided long term cover for the mortgage. Their  
mortgage was a major financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Rs home  wouldve been  at risk 
if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. I think its likely that either  (or both of 
them) losing their income wouldve had a significant impact on their joint finances. So, I can 
see why Mr and Mrs R mightve  felt it was useful having PPI to protect their income in the 
event they were unable to work.  
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs R told us about their sick pay arrangements  at work. 
But the policy wouldve  paid a monthly benefit on top of this. So I think PPI couldve  provided 
a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if Mr and Mrs R mightve had extra costs if they 
were having  to deal with an illness or disability. 
Mr and Mrs R havent given us details of any other means they had to rely on if they werent 
working. So I think PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs R looking at their circumstances.
Its possible some of the information  Mr and Mrs R were given about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. There were some  things the policy  didnt cover. But it doesnt  look as if 
those applied to Mr and Mrs R. So, I dont  think having more information  about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected their decision to take it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs R at the time they bought  the 
policy. But looking at the welcome letter it appears  theyd  signed an instruction form to their 
bank to cover the monthly cost. And the amount of the monthly premium was set out in the 
letter. So it seems Mr and Mrs R were happy at the time to pay for it and the policy appears 
to have been  affordable. As they were  paying  for the PPI monthly,  they could cancel it 
without further  cost if their situation  changed  or they no longer wanted it.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs R still wouldve  decided to buy the policy  even if theyd been given clearer 
information as it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. And, on balance,  
I dont find it was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN03207253Ive also thought about whether Santander  needs to give back to Mr and Mrs R some of the 
commission they paid.  The Supreme  Court  ruling and new rules  and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Santander 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs R paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
This means  it doesnt need to take any steps to put things right.  
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 July 2019.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0320725