K821x#15Complaint
Mr L, represented by a claims management  company  (CMC), complains that MYJAR  Limited  
(MyJar) lent money  to him that he couldn't afford  to repay.
Background
Based on the information provided, Mr L entered into five loans with MyJar between  
March 2016 and July 2016.
Loan Date Repaid Amount Deferral
1 08/03/2016 05/04/2016 £100 1
2 08/04/2016 29/04/2016 £100
3 05/05/2016 30/05/2016 £100
4 02/06/2016 30/06/2016 £100
5 01/07/2016 outstanding £100
Mr L says that at the time of the loans he had outstanding short  term loans with other  
lenders. He says he had to defer  the repayment  of his first loan and that MyJar actively 
encouraged him to extend his borrowing. Mr L says he has now entered a debt management 
plan.
MyJar says that Mr L applied for the loans online and provided information  through  this 
process. It says that its customers  are requested to update their application  information  each  
time they log in to their account to ensure the information is up to date. It says it asked for 
information about Mr L's income and expenses  including other credit commitments  and that 
it carried out verification  and credit checks.  MyJar says its checks were  proportionate and 
the information gathered didn't raise concerns that would have required further  checks  to 
take place.
In response to the complaint being raised with this service, MyJar said that providing Mr L 
with loan five may not have been  sustainable  given his borrowing to that point. It offered to 
waive the interest and charges on this loan reducing the balance to the capital amount of 
£100. It also offered  to set up a repayment  plan for Mr L.
Our adjudicator didn't think  that MyJar's  offer went far enough.  She didn't think  that there 
was enough evidence to say that loans one to three  shouldn't  have been  provided. However 
she thought that by loan four, Mr L was showing signs that he was struggling to repay his 
loans and so upheld his complaint in regard to loans four and five.
MyJar didn't accept our adjudicator's view and reiterated that it believed  its checks were 
proportionate.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
before  the loans  were provided  information  about Mr L's income and expenses was 
gathered. Our adjudicator didnt  think she had seen enough to say loans  one to three  
shouldnt have  been provided. Given the size of the repayments  on the first three 
loans compared  to Mr L's income  I thought that the checks  carried out at this time 
Ref: DRN08859232were proportionate and as these  didn't raise concerns about the affordability of the 
loans I agreed there wasn't enough  to say these loans shouldn't  have been  provided;
while a pattern of borrowing was emerging by loan four I didn't think  at this time there 
was enough evidence to say that MyJar should  have been reasonably aware that 
lending to Mr L was unsustainable. The checks carried out suggested the loan was 
affordable and previous loans had been  repaid on time. Therefore I didnt think  that I 
had enough to say this loan shouldn't  have  been  provided;
by loan five, I thought  MyJar should  have been  concerned that Mr L was reliant on 
short term loans. He had now taken out five loans in four months and was taking out 
a new loan shortly after repaying a previous loan. The loans were for the same 
amount suggesting  Mr L was not able to repay  his debts  without borrowing again. 
Given this I didnt  think that loan five should  have been provided.
MyJar accepted  that loan five may not have been sustainable  and offered to waive  
the interest and charges on this loan so that only the capital  amount  would be 
repayable. It also offered to set up a repayment plan for Mr L. I thought this 
reasonable.
Mr L accepted  my provisional  decision and no further information was provided.
My findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, MyJar needed to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried  out 
proportionate checks to make sure that Mr L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner - 
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. These checks  could take into account a number of different things, such as how 
much was being lent the repayment amounts and the consumer's income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MyJar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. There may even come a 
point where the lending  history and pattern of lending itself clearly  demonstrates  that the 
lending was unsustainable.
As Mr L accepted my provisional decision and no further information was provided, my 
decision remains that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan five. 
Ref: DRN08859233My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan five. MyJar Limited should, 
as it has offered, waive all interest  and charges  on loan five so that Mr L is only required to 
repay the capital  amount of £100. Any adverse information regarding this loan should be 
removed from Mr Ls credit  file.
MyJar Limited has offered  to set up a repayment plan for Mr L which I find reasonable.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0885923