K822xThe complaint
Mr S complains that The Society  of Lloyd's (SoL) made errors when renewing two insurance 
policies for two properties he owns.  He would like the premiums refunded, along with a 
cancellation fee that was charged for one of the policies.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I will refer to the policies  as policy E and policy W.
My findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by our investigator  for these reasons:
-Policy E renewed and monthly premiums  were collected for a year.  Mr S says the 
renewal was contrary to his instructions. Our investigator thought the premiums  
should be refunded, with interest.  Both parties agreed with her outcome for this 
policy, so its not necessary for me to consider it here.
-Mr S cancelled  policy W after the two-week  cooling  off period. Hes unhappy that a 
cancellation fee was charged, and he also wants his premiums  refunded.  He points 
towards errors with collecting  the premium, and incorrect information on the policy 
documents. Mr S says if a claim had been made,  it wouldnt have been accepted 
given the incorrect  details recorded  about  him and the insured property.
-Whilst I accept  the direct debit issues would  have been frustrating, they dont lead me 
to conclude the premiums should be refunded. I say this because Mr S had received 
the benefit of the cover.  Nonetheless,  when he asked to cancel the policy  due to the 
direct debit  issues, it would have been reasonable for the cancellation  fee to have  
been waived,  in my view,  given  the reason for his cancellation request. SoL has 
recently offered  to reimburse the cancellation  fee, and I consider this to be fair.
-I understand the point Mr S makes  about the incorrect details recorded on the policy  
documents. However, it doesnt  necessarily follow that if a claim had been made it 
would have been declined. SoL would need  to have treated Mr S fairly.  Im also 
mindful that the policy documents were sent to Mr S at renewal, so he had an 
opportunity to check the information.  Therefore, Im not persuaded that I can 
reasonably decide  SoL needs to refund  the premiums for policy  W.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
I require The Society of Lloyd's to:
-refund  the premiums  paid for policy  E; 
-refund  the cancellation fee for policy W; and
Ref: DRN05068622-pay Mr S interest1 at 8% simple  per year on the above amounts, from the date he 
paid them until the date the settlement is paid
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 December 2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
1If The Society of Lloyd's  considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct  income tax 
from any interest paid, it should tell Mr S how much  its taken off. It should  also give him a certificate 
showing the amount deducted, if requested,  so he can reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN0506862