K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC trading as Tesco Bank  is holding  her 
responsible for transactions on her credit card that she didnt make.
background
Miss H says her purse containing her credit  card was stolen from her when  she was on a 
night out. She says she made the last genuine and contactless payment with the card at 
23:50 on 20 October 2017. But she disputes  a number of then transactions made starting in 
the early hours of 21 October 2017,  and continuing  until she cancelled  the card later that 
morning. These transactions included withdrawals from a cash  machine and payments in a 
number of stores. The total amount of the transactions disputed is over £1,700.
Miss H says that she was able to pay for a taxi home by writing a cheque. And that she tried 
to contact Tesco in the early  hours,  but was unable to do so as there was a long introductory  
message on the call and both her mobile  phone  and landline had no battery charge left. She 
says that, in contrast, it was easy  to report a card from a different financial business  that was 
also stolen as missing, and that there  had later been unsuccessful attempts to use that. 
Shed reported what happened to police and been  told that a male  had been  seen on CCTV 
using her card. 
Tesco said it wouldnt be refunding these transactions. It said this was because each was 
made when  the unique  chip on the genuine  card was read and the correct  PIN entered. 
There had been  no incorrect  PIN numbers entered  when the card was used,  and Miss H had 
said she hadnt written  her PIN down, or given it to anyone. Tesco didnt think someone 
couldve guessed this, and additionally,  Miss H hadnt input  her PIN that evening so there 
was no way someone could have seen  it say over her shoulder. 
Tesco said it was possible that Miss H had shared her details with the man seen using  her 
card. It also said that the introductory  messages included on its calls were  no longer than 45 
seconds and didnt accept she couldnt  have called it any earlier to report  the card as 
missing. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  Saying there was no likely 
way in which an unknown  person could  have obtained both Miss Hs card and PIN. And 
although Mss H had said there had been a data breach reported of some of her details 
online by a credit reference  agency,  this didnt include her PIN. 
Further, there were some  inconsistencies  in what Miss H had said.  Her card with the other 
business hadnt actually been  reported lost until the evening of the day it was stolen, and 
long after shed  spoken to Tesco, - and there  had been no attempts  to use it. And as Tesco 
had shown, the recorded message was short.  So even if Miss Hs phones needed 
recharging, this is unlikely  to have stopped her using one while  it was on charge. And finally, 
although police had confirmed what Miss H had said about the man seen  on CCTV, this still 
didnt rule out this person acting with her authority.
Miss H didnt agree and said she wanted her complaint  to be reviewed. She said she 
definitely didnt  share her PIN and shed  been  the victim of fraud. She said Tesco had also 
been charging her interest on the amount she disputes. Shed provided as much  evidence 
about the calls she made  in the early hours as she could. Given  the time that has passed, 
Ref: DRN05680252and as this was late at night,  she was now struggling to remember the sequence of what 
happened after her purse was stolen.  She was waiting for evidence  to show  she had spoken 
to the other business earlier than had been  said. But she knew that no money was taken 
from that other account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009 in considering  this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated,  say with a card and PIN. Where  credit is involved, as 
is the case here on credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974  applies and it states  that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card. 
So Ive thought about the following areas  in looking at this complaint:
-Whats the most likely explanation of how the PIN was discovered?
-Did Miss H authorise these payments which might have involved allowing someone else 
to use her card?
Having done so, I find I come to the same conclusion as the investigator  and for mainly the 
same reasons.
I appreciate what Miss H says about  the passage  of time since  she reported  her card 
lost/stolen. And that she cant  now remember  things as clearly. But Ive been  able to listen  to 
the recordings of the calls she made  to Tesco about  what happened at the time.  And shed 
said then that shed already reported  her card with another business as missing  and that 
there had been  attempts  to use it. Shed also described the difficulty  she had getting through 
to Tesco. The significance of that for her is that most  of the transactions  were made after 
06:00am that morning, which she thinks could have been stopped.
Im satisfied on the evidence provided  that the transactions  were authenticated when the 
chip was read and the PIN entered. So the remaining question  I need to address is whether 
Miss H most likely consented to them by allowing  someone to take possession of her card 
and PIN.
Miss H denies doing so. But Im afraid  theres  no other likely explanation of what  happened.  
Shes adamant she didnt write  her PIN down,  and I think it highly  unlikely someone  could  
have guessed this correctly first time. We know there was no opportunity for an unknown  
person to see her entering the PIN and then to take her card that night. So the only other 
possibility is that she told someone what her PIN was and consented to that person having 
possession of her card.  That means that shes still responsible for the payments, even if she 
didnt make them herself - as the CCTV is said to have shown.
Having made that finding, the difficulty she says she had in reporting the loss of her card to 
Tesco makes no difference to the outcome here. But I do think  that it would have been 
reasonable to expect  her to make  more efforts to report what  happened much earlier if shed 
had no idea who had her card. I accept as she says it was late and she was tired. But Ive 
listened to the introductory message Tesco  said it played on its calls, and it wasnt actually 
Ref: DRN05680253long. And so I think there would have been the opportunity for her to recharge  either  of her 
phones if that was the issue.
I know Miss H will be very disappointed  by my finding here which means she will need to 
repay this credit card borrowing and the interest Tesco has applied.  But I hope Ive explained 
why its the only fair and reasonable  conclusion I can reach  on the evidence.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0568025