K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about issues  hes experienced with a car supplied to him with finance from 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I proposed to uphold Mr Rs complaint and to 
require BMWFS to allow  Mr R to reject  the car, and to pay compensation. I invited Mr R and 
BMWFS to let me have any further  evidence or arguments they wanted  to make before I 
finally determined the matter.
BMWFS didnt reply  to my provisional  decision.
Mr R said he felt the inconvenience hed suffered since  being in possession  of the car wasnt  
adequately reflected in my award of compensation. He provided a detailed  explanation of the 
problems he and his family had encountered  and said hed had no real use or enjoyment of 
the car. He said the steering was defective  and that he should  be allowed to return  the car 
and receive a full refund  of all monies  paid.
Mr R also said that the car was in pristine condition  and with very little use and that he would 
be able to get a better than average  deal against a new car when he came  to trade it in. He 
said that if I was able to reconsider the level of my award for distress  and inconvenience,  he 
would be willing to retain the car, have the fault with the steering  fixed and part exchange it 
in a few months  time.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr R has said.  Having done so Im not persuaded to 
reach a different conclusion from that which I set out in my provisional decision.  Whilst I 
dont disagree  with Mr R that the car has a steering fault, I dont accept that he hasnt had 
fair use of the car. And having found that the car has a fault,  I dont think it would be fair 
recommend anything other than rejection of the car. Its by no means clear whether the fault 
can be fixed and at what cost, so Mr Rs proposal carries with it too much risk that he would  
be left with a faulty car which may not be capable of economic  repair and may not be readily 
accepted in part exchange.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is to uphold  the complaint. BMW  Financial Services  GB Limited must:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr R.
Refund Mr Rs deposit of £500 together  with simple interest at 8% per year from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £150 
Ref: DRN02635662Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0263566