K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L complained  about  being  mis-sold  a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  
with a mortgage in 1990. Bradford  & Bingley Plc (B&B) sold the policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in August 2019,  comprehensively setting 
out why I thought the complaint should be upheld.   And I asked both parties to provide any 
further submissions or information to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve had responses from both parties 
but neither wants  to send in any new information  or arguments. So theres no reason  for me 
to change the findings I set out in my provisional  decision. 
what B&B should  do to put matters right 
B&B should  put Mr and Mrs L in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken out PPI. 
It should:
Pay Mr and Mrs L the amount they paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year before April 1993 and 8% after that .
If Mr or Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  B&B can take off what  they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them. It can also take off any commission 
money its already paid them back.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  B&B to take off tax from this interest. It must  give Mr and Mrs L a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint 
and I direct Bradford  & Bingley Plc to pay them all the compensation as Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00583902summary  provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out with a 
mortgage in 1990. Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) sold the policy.
background
Im really  sorry this complaint has been with us for so long.
There are a few reasons for this but a major  one is that a legal case has affected many  complaints 
like the one Mr and Mrs L have asked us to look at. This has taken  a while to go through  the courts 
but I can now issue a decision.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at this case a while  ago and said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  
They wrote  to Mr and Mrs L with this view but Mr and Mrs L didnt  agree with this. They  asked for an 
ombudsman to look at their complaint and issue a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having looked very carefully and thoroughly over all the documents and information we have from 
the sale,  Im currently  considering upholding  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint in full. But Im giving the 
parties a final opportunity to tell me about anything they think Ive missed or anything  else they think  I 
ought to consider.
It seems Mr and Mrs L took a mortgage  out with B&B back in January 1990.  At the same meeting 
they were sold a PPI policy which only covered Mr L. Mrs L wasnt covered. We know this because 
we still have  the original  application form where Mr and Mrs L were asked about having  PPI with their 
new mortgage.
B&B says Mr and Mrs L chose the PPI and it was sold to them properly, but Im afraid with the 
information I currently have, I dont agree with this. 
This is because the relevant section on the mortgage application form about the PPI choices  doesnt 
appear to me to be clear  enough
The relevant section on the form is headed  SELECT Payment Protection  Insurance.  In my view, 
theres a clear assumption at this point that the consumers will buy the PPI cover and from the way 
the form is set out, I don't think it would've been clear enough that Mr and Mrs L didn't need to take 
out the PPI. The choice simply wasnt made clear.
I say this because I note there are other sections on the form about  other types of insurance. But 
these sections  appear to provide much clearer yes or no choices  about buying them.  No such option 
was available for the PPI. And I cant see any reason why this would be the case  other than to put 
forward the PPI cover as something the consumers  ought to buy.
For example, the application form directs Mr and Mrs L to enter the amount of PPI cover they want to 
have without first giving  them an obvious  choice.  To decline PPI they would need to specifically say 
so by putting  an x into a box related to the monthly PPI premium. Further down the form I note it 
says "The  society  will arrange for the property and payment protection insurance to be effected unless  
instructed otherwise.  
Ref: DRN00583903None of this is particularly clear  and this doesnt look to me like a choice. In short,  what this means  is 
that the PPI will be added - unless its specifically de-selected by the applicant(s). I dont  think  this is 
fair and I can therefore understand why Mr and Mrs L could have become confused.  
Those selling  this type of PPI had a duty to make these things clear and tell consumers they didnt 
need to buy it if they didnt want  to.  I dont  think  the optionality of the PPI was made clear. So Im 
currently intending  to uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN0058390