K820x#14Complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
Mr S bought the policy in 2001,  at the same time as taking out a credit  card in branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Ss credit  card application  had a section for additional products, which included PPI. 
There was a box which could be marked if customers  wanted the policy, or which could be 
left blank if they didnt want it. The box for PPI was marked and Mr S signed the application  
to confirm his choices. Ive not seen anything to show that the PPI was displayed  as 
compulsory, nor any wider problems with Halifaxs sales  process from the time. So I think its 
most likely that Halifax made  Mr S aware he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it  though I can understand if he no longer remembers doing so after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr S, which means  they had to check it was right for him. 
And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For 
example, it looks like Mr S was eligible for the cover  and wasnt  affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limits. While Mr S may have had some sick pay and savings, the PPI wouldve 
paid out on top of those  and covered him for longer. So it looks  like the policy could have 
been useful for Mr S in case he was off sick or lost his job.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr S about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. Here, it looks like Mr S chose to take out the policy, which indicates he wanted  this 
type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the policys  
main exclusions  or limitations,  and it could have been useful for Mr S if something went 
wrong. The PPI was priced  competitively  compared to similar policies and I havent seen 
anything to show it was unaffordable. And it was paid on a rolling monthly  basis,  so Mr S 
could cancel the policy at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think  better information 
about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out.
Ref: DRN05478842My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0547884