K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains about Assurant General Insurance Limiteds handling of her mobile  phone  
insurance claim. 
Where I refer to Assurant, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
background
Miss R has insurance for (amongst other  risks) breakdown and damage  to her mobile phone 
  which  is provided  by Assurant. 
On 28 August 2018 Miss R made a claim for a replacement phone. She said her phones  
screen was damaged and she was only able to make  and receive calls through  the use of a 
Bluetooth headset. 
Miss R paid the £75 policy excess and was told that a replacement  phone would be 
delivered by courier  the following day. The process was for a doorstep exchange where the 
courier would deliver the replacement phone  and take back the damaged  phone. 
On 29 August 2018 when Miss R hadnt received  notification of when the courier  would be 
attending, she called Assurant. At this point Assurant say they discovered  that a system 
error meant her order hadnt been  correctly  processed. Assurant apologised and offered to 
arrange delivery for the following day. 
Miss R was very upset  with this; she explained  she needed a phone urgently as she was 
going away. She asked Assurant  to provide a phone by same day courier  or to pay her a 
cash settlement, so she could buy herself  a new phone. 
During the several phone  calls that followed,  Assurant  explored various options with Miss R. 
This included an option  for a cash settlement (for a refurbished phone, in line with the policy  
terms) or delivery to different addresses. But ultimately Assurant said they dont offer a same 
day courier service and so werent  able to assist as Miss R would have liked.  Miss Rs 
replacement phone was delivered to her work  address  on 30 August 2018.  
Assurant responded  to Miss Rs complaint. They apologised  and offered £30 compensation. 
Miss R contacted Assurant to let them know she didnt  accept  this; she would like the £75 
excess to be refunded as a minimum. Miss R said that a consequence of the phone being 
delivered a day later was that shed had to drive herself to an event  when she otherwise 
could have got a lift. And that shed  also lost out on a days earnings. She says this amounts 
to between £150-200. 
Assurant offered to consider some  of the travel  costs  Miss R had incurred if she were to 
provide evidence. But maintained their stance in relation to the compensation offered. 
Miss R referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators  didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld.  She concluded that the compensation offered was fair in the 
circumstances. As she still disagrees, Miss R has asked for an ombudsman to review  her 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN05825022my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. Let me explain why.
I can understand why Miss R was frustrated when she was told she would have her 
replacement phone on the 29 August and this didnt happen. And whilst Assurant are 
ultimately responsible  for the service they provide, sometimes errors occur which mean that 
things dont go to plan.
 
Ive listened to the calls between Miss R and Assurant. And Im satisfied that Assurant tried 
their best to remedy things for Miss R within the terms and conditions of the policy.  And that 
their staff remained  professional in response to some challenging behaviour  from Miss R.
Ultimately, after making  a claim on 28 August 2018,  a replacement phone was delivered on 
30 August 2018.  And whilst I accept Miss R was told it would be with her sooner than it was, 
I dont think Assurant have treated her unfairly.  Assurant accepted responsibility for the 
error, apologised and took steps  to try to put things right. They then offered compensation 
for the inconvenience  caused. 
Our investigator asked  Miss R if she was able to evidence  her additional travel costs and 
loss of earnings. Miss R said that due to the passage of time she wasnt.  Assurant had 
offered to consider some of these costs on provision of evidence.  I think  that is reasonable 
and I wouldnt expect  them to meet  those  costs without evidence  that theyd  been  incurred.
Looking at this complaint  as a whole, Im satisfied the £30 compensation that has already 
been offered is fair in these circumstances.  Particularly as the phone  was successfully 
delivered only one day later than expected. So Im not asking Assurant to take any further 
action. If the compensation hasnt already been paid and Miss R would like to accept it, I 
recommend that she contacts Assurant to arrange  this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0582502