K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) have unfairly recorded her claim for 
damage to her car as a fault claim.
background
Miss M insured her car with UKI. Her car was damaged when a tree fell against  it whilst it 
was parked in a street. She made a claim against  her insurance.
UKI settled  Miss Ms claim, paying out for her car as beyond economic repair.
Miss M didnt agree that her claim was a fault claim though. She thought that the local 
authority  that were responsible for the street where the accident happened   were at fault.  
Miss M didnt think that UKI did enough to recover her loss from the local authority. So she 
complained to UKI.
UK Insurance told Miss M that theyd pursued  the matter with the local authority but didnt 
think that they had enough evidence to successfully take the matter to court.  They explained  
that the conditions of Miss Ms policy meant that they were able take  over and carry out any 
defence or settlement on Miss Ms behalf.
Miss M brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the matter  and 
thought that UKI had acted fairly in the way the claim  was handled. Miss M was not happy 
with that response  so asked for an ombudsman  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its understandable  that Miss M was unhappy  that her claim is recorded  as a fault claim, as 
this may impact on her future insurance  costs. I think it is worth  explaining that the way this 
claim was recorded doesnt mean that Miss M was to blame  for the damage.  Insurance  
companies record claims on an industry  database. Claims are recorded as being fault 
claims in cases where  they have  been  unable to recover the costs from a third party.  This 
was the case  in Miss Ms claim.
In looking into this complaint it isnt the role of our service to determine where fault for the 
damage lies. This would be the role of a court. Nor is it the role of our service  to investigate  
or pursue Miss Ms case against  the third party.  That was the role of UKI. What I have to 
consider, is whether UKI investigated Miss Ms claim  thoroughly  enough and pursued her 
case in a fair and reasonable  way.
When Miss M made  her claim to UKI, they had an obligation to settle her claim promptly 
which I think they did. I have looked  at what they did afterwards  to pursue the claim against 
the third party  that Miss M thought was responsible. That was the local authority with 
responsibility for the highway she was parked on. 
I can see that UKI contacted the third party and their insurers.  The third party  didnt accept 
liability. The third party said that there  was no evidence they had been negligent.
Ref: DRN02972072Ive seen that Miss M provided photos proving that the tree had a chain and padlock  around 
it and that the chain  had cut into the tree as it had grown. The third party have produced  
expert opinion  indicating that the healthy  growth of the crown of the tree indicated that the 
tree was not obviously  sick. UKI had no contrary evidence. 
Im aware that Miss M spoke  with the tree surgeon  that attended to remove the damaged  
tree. She explained that he told her the chain would  have  damaged  the tree. Miss M didnt 
provide contact details  for the tree surgeon  to UKI to enable  them  to request an account  
from him. Miss M initially provided his car registration but this was not enough  to identify and 
contact him. I understand that she has now spoken  with the tree surgeon again  but not 
provided his details to UKI. Even if UKI were  able to speak with him, I am not sure that he 
could have provided evidence that would have made a difference.
I think that for UKI to have  pursued this matter to court, they would have needed more 
compelling evidence  than they had or could have obtained. Proving negligence on the part 
of the third party would have involved more  than just being  able to prove that the tree fell 
because of the presence of the chain.  I think that they would also have needed to prove that 
the third party  knew  of the damage  to the tree and had not done enough to address it. I cant  
see that UKI had that kind of evidence or that they could reasonably  have been  expected  to 
obtain it. So I think that the decision they took not to pursue  the claim against the third party 
to court  was fair and reasonable  given  the circumstances described.
Miss Ms insurance  policy  document explained  that UKI had the right to pursue the claim on 
her behalf.  This is common  in motor insurance  policies and meant that UKI had the right to 
decide how far to pursue this claim. I think that this condition was fair, providing that UKI 
made reasonable efforts to reclaim  Miss Ms costs.  For the reasons  Ive given I think that 
UKI pursued  this claim in a fair and reasonable way, so I dont uphold  Miss Ms complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2020
Gary Lane
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0297207