K821x#15complaint
Mr R is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) wont pay his claim for fire damage under 
his commercial property owners  policy, and that it has voided it (ie cancelled  back to its start 
in 2013).
background
Mr R took out his policy to cover  his commercial premises which  he leased to a catering 
business, in 2013. In July 2017 there was a fire at the premises. After review  of the 
circumstances UKI discovered  that Mr R had been a director  of a company  subject  to a 
winding up order and dissolved following liquidation in April 2015.  It said that had it known 
this, it wouldn't  have  issued a policy. So it said it wouldnt  be paying the claim. And that it 
would be voiding the policy  back to its start date in February 2013. Mr R accepted  that it was 
an innocent oversight. 
Through his solicitors Mr R disputed that UKI had shown that it was entitled to void the 
policy. This was because he didnt think it had shown any proof,  through underwriting 
guidelines or examples of other cases that it wouldnt  have issued a policy  to Mr R, knowing 
about the liquidation.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that UKI had shown it would  have been  willing  
to consider the circumstances of a liquidation  if declared. She thought  that UKI hadnt shown 
us enough evidence to show that it would have declined cover  in Mr Rs circumstances.
UKI showed us its online process whereby if a liquidation is declared it is automatically 
declined. It also showed us examples of cases where it had declined  to issue or cancelled a 
policy where it has discovered a liquidation  of a previous company.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I didnt think  it was fair to void all the policies 
from 2013 to 2016  but that in view of the different wording in the statement of fact for the 
2017 policy, it was fair to avoid that policy and not pay out on the claim.
UKI accepted the decision.
Mr R responded to my provisional decision.  Ill set out his points in my findings below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings  (which  Ive amended slightly to clarify the position  of 
Mr R as owner of the premises  rather than the business run from it):
Mr R took out the policy through  a broker in 2013. UKI has said that its most likely that the 
policy was applied for online by the broker. Certainly theres no indication  that it was set up 
manually. So I think  it fair to assume  that the broker went through  the online process. The 
statement of fact issued  at the time said:
Neither You, Your Directors and Your Business partners:
Ref: DRN00683842are subject to bankruptcy or insolvency  orders which are either  outstanding or have been 
discharged for less than 5 years.
At the time Mr R had been a director  of a previous company which  had been subject to a 
winding up order in 2012. Under the law that applied at the time commercial policyholders 
were obliged to disclose everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence  the 
judgment of an insurer  in deciding whether to insure  the risk and on what terms. And I can 
see that UKI would have  wanted to know about  the winding  up, with substantial outstanding 
debt of a company Mr R had by all accounts been heavily involved with.
Nevertheless it doesnt fit easily into the above  declaration which seems to me to relate to 
personal rather than business insolvency. An applicant for a policy  at the time was subject to 
the above duty. Nevertheless its fair that in deciding what the insurer  wants to know, he is 
guided by the questions asked and the declaration following the policy  issue. 
I understand that, assuming the above statement was a question when applying for the 
policy, it would have  been automatically declined.  But I think  it fair to say that Mr R could  
have answered  the question  about  previous bankruptcy or insolvency orders  No 
accurately. And Im not persuaded  that he fairly would  have thought  he had to tell UKI about  
the winding  up order. So I dont  think  it was fair to void the policy  back to 2013.
I havent got any information on the renewals after that until 2017. The Insurance Act 2015 
was in force by the time of the renewal in February  2017. The renewal schedule  issued to 
Mr R was accompanied by a statement  of fact which said:
Neither the proposer,  director  or partner of the Trade  or Business or its Subsidiary 
Companies either  personally  or in any business  capacity:
e) has been subject  of an individual voluntary arrangement with creditors,  voluntary 
liquidation, a winding  up or administration order, or administrative receivership proceedings 
within the last 10 years?
Under the said Insurance Act Mr R had a duty, on renewal  of a policy to make  a fair 
presentation of the risk. This required disclosure of every material circumstance which the 
insured knows or ought to know.  And the above  declaration did in my view make it clear  
what UKI wanted to know on renewal  of the policy. Each renewal  is a new contract and the 
policyholder cant  assume  theyve  already  given  the insurer the information needed. Mr R 
would have known  that the company was wound up by order in 2015. So I think he should  
have told UKI of this. 
I understand that Mr R didnt read the renewal documents and just passed them onto his 
accountant. But thats not a reason not to have told UKI about the liquidation of the 
company. He admitted that it was an innocent oversight.
Under the Insurance Act where there is a qualifying breach of the duty of fair presentation, 
the insurer can decide if the breach is deliberate or reckless. I understand that UKI 
determined that the breach wasnt deliberate. It has also not alleged to Mr R that the breach 
was reckless. In those circumstances if, in the absence of the qualifying  breach, the insurer  
would not have entered into the contract on any terms, the insurer may avoid the contract 
and refuse  all claims, but must in that event return the premiums paid.
UKIs position is clear   it wouldnt have entered into the contract  on any terms. Its clear  that 
a process took place  involving a senior underwriter  and an underwriting  manager. They  
Ref: DRN00683843determined that but for an outstanding debt owed by the company of over £100,000  UKI 
would still have issued  the policy. But they couldnt  be satisfied that the debt had been paid. 
They referred it to UKIs solicitors who raised  concerns  about  the circumstances of the 
liquidation, particularly  that such a large outstanding debt was owed. The senior underwriter  
on receipt of that advice  determined that UKI wouldnt  have  entered  into the contract.
Further, UKI was asked by our investigator to show us examples of where  it declined  a 
policy in similar circumstances.  I understand that all cases are different and theres no 
underwriting guidance  which states  that a certain  level of outstanding debt is acceptable. It 
has shown us some examples of such cases. What  the cases do show is that UKI does 
decline to issue or renew policies where  there is a liquidation of a previous company in 
which the insured  is involved.
I have taken into account those factors  - the fact that a senior underwriter has reviewed the 
position and decided UKI wouldnt have  entered into the insurance  contract  and that Mr R 
hasnt been treated unfairly compared to other  customers. I think it was fair and reasonable 
for UKI to void the policy at least from February 2017. As I dont know  when the declaration  
as to insolvency/liquidation changed,  I cant say it was fair to void the policies from previous 
years. Although  certainly  UKI should,  if it hasnt  already, refund the premiums for the 2017  
policy. Im afraid in these  circumstances I think it fair that UKI has declined  the claim from 
May 2017.
As matters stand the policy  for the years before the 2017 renewal still stands. So it is still 
relevant to note that UKI has also said that the nature of the business  run from Mr Rs 
premises is different from the catering  ex mobile  vans as described in the policy. It says it 
is food production which  would mean  a 45% increase  in premium. The  business makes  
and distributes food through  other shops and from what  appears  to be their own stalls  at 
famers markets. I think that can reasonably be described as catering. I dont know what  
options Mr R was given  to describe the business.  But I dont think  it fair to increase the 
premium.
Overall Im not satisfied  that UKI can fairly  avoid the policy back  to 2013.  But I do think it was 
fair to void it back to 2017 and to decline the claim.
Mr R made  the following  points:
The circumstances of the liquidation were  unavoidable and he had made every effort 
to pay off the debts.  He felt that UKI was being unfair in not considering this.
He hadnt  been fraudulent nor did he deliberately mislead UKI. He made  an innocent 
mistake in not reading the pages  of information  sent to him by his broker.
He has several questions about  UKIs approach to refusing cover  to parties who have 
been subject to previous liquidations and whether  they apply that to all customers.
He feels its unfair  that UKI wont refund the premiums from 2013 until 2017.
In response, I understand the circumstances of the liquidation. But, as Ive set out above UKI 
went through a process involving a senior underwriter, an underwriting manager and its 
solicitors. It decided  that it wouldnt have offered a policy  in Mr Rs circumstances, had the 
liquidation been made known to it. UKI has made  a professional  judgment   all I can say is 
that it has considered  the circumstances and sent us examples  of other such cases. It cant 
Ref: DRN00683844release personal  details  of those cases to us or to Mr R as that would be a breach of 
confidentiality. So I think it exercised its judgement fairly and consistently. Mr R hasnt been  
singled out.
I think I made it clear that Mr R hasnt been accused  of acting deliberately  or recklessly.  I 
accept that, as he says,  he made a mistake in not reading the forms from his broker. If he 
feels that the change in information concerning previous liquidations wasnt brought  to his 
attention, he should raise  that with his broker.
With regard to Mr Rs questions about  UKI's approach to customers who have been involved 
in previous liquidations, my understanding is that, for this policy  UKI does  automatically  
decline cover  for persons  involved  in previous bankruptcy or liquidations in the previous five 
years. That doesnt  mean that other policies through other providers  might  not be available.
Mr R has other questions  about UKIs treatment of him compared to other  customers who 
have been involved  in liquidations.  All I can say is that from the information supplied  to us I 
am satisfied  that UKI hasnt acted unfairly  or treated him differently to other customers. 
As to the policies  from 2013 to 2016, I havent  seen  enough information to suggest that they 
should be voided as well. I understand that Mr R would like the premiums returned to him. 
But that would mean a finding against him for the previous years policies. As it stands, if 
Mr R accepts this decision, the policies for those years are still valid so if any claim were to 
arise from those years it would be covered.
Overall Im satisfied with my provisional  findings.  They now form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I propose to uphold the complaint in part and to require U K Insurance Limited  to:
withdraw its voidance  of Mr Rs policies for the 2013 to 2016 renewals.  
in respect of the 2017 policy, to refund the premiums for that year.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0068384