K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 2004 with a further 
advance on Mr and Mrs As mortgage.  The policy provided cover for Mr and Mrs A if they 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs A disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
From the evidence I have  seen I dont think that Nationwide recommended  the policy  to 
Mr and Mrs A, so the key question I need  to consider is:
Did Nationwide give Mr and Mrs A information  that was clear, fair and not misleading in 
order to put them  in a position where they could make an informed choice about the 
insurance they were  buying?
If the answer  to this question is no, then I need  to consider whether Mr and Mrs A are worse 
off as a result. That is, would they have  done something different  such as not taking out 
the policy  if there had been no problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs As complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs A say they didnt know the PPI had been added to their account and that they 
werent given a proper choice  about whether to buy it. Ive noted  everything theyve said.  
I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs A and Nationwide  when  the policy 
was taken out. But I note that their application  for the further advance included  a section 
about PPI that said:
We would  like the following protection for our mortgage payments against accident,  
sickness and/or unemployment.  Nationwide has provided us with sufficient information, 
including details of the main exclusions, to make  a decision on the type and level of cover 
needed
Nationwide has provided us with a sample of the wording that wouldve been included in the 
application if Mr and Mrs A had decided not to take the cover. This says:
Ref: DRN03857192No, we do not want to protect our mortgage payments against accident,  sickness and 
unemployment and understand  that we will be responsible for making monthly  payments if 
we are unable  to work.
This suggests to me that there must have been  some sort of discussion about PPI between  
Mr and Mrs A and Nationwide  when the further advance was taken out. And on balance I 
think its unlikely that Nationwide  didnt make Mr and Mrs A aware that the PPI was optional.
I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs A before 
they agreed to take it. But the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable.  So 
I think it unlikely they would have made a different decision if better information about the 
cost had been provided.
Mr and Mrs A both satisfied the eligibility  requirements of the policy  when taking it out. 
I cant be sure that Nationwide pointed out to Mr and Mrs A all of the things  that the policy  
didnt cover. Mrs A has told us she has a medical condition that wouldnt have been covered 
by the policy  during  the first twelve months.  
But I understand that Mrs As condition is controlled  by medication and, in general, hasnt 
affected her ability  to work. So even if Nationwide had pointed  out the policys  exclusion to 
her and Mr A, I think its unlikely that this wouldve changed their decision to buy the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs A say they were entitled to sick pay if they couldnt work because of sickness  or 
accident. But as Ive already said, I dont think Nationwide advised Mr and Mrs A on whether 
or not to take the PPI. So it didnt have to check whether  their existing arrangements meant 
the policy was suitable for them. So Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs As sick pay meant 
the PPI policy  was mis-sold.
In summary,  I think Mr and Mrs A agreed  to take out the cover, knowing they didnt have to. 
And given  it provided  broadly what I think they expected when they agreed to it, I dont think 
they would  have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if they had 
been better informed.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0385719