K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide), then trading as 
Cheshire Building Society, mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy with 
their mortgage. 
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Nationwide  in 1992. At the same time, they were 
sold a PPI policy which would have covered their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months  
at a time if Mr S had been unable to work  due to an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Mr and Mrs S complain  that the policy was just added as part of the mortgage  application  
process, and that it was not suitable  for them.
The adjudicator who first looked at the complaint was of the view that Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint should  be upheld.  The adjudicator thought that Nationwide  hadnt done  enough to 
ensure it had Mr and Mrs Ss consent  to buy the policy.
Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators  view,  so the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im upholding Mr and Mrs As 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Nationwide had to make sure that when they sold the PPI that Mr and Mrs A knew it was 
optional. Usually this means the application  form should make it clear whether  the PPI is a 
condition of the mortgage lending and if it isnt, the consumer should have a clear choice 
about whether  they take it. This is often in the form of a choice of two or more  boxes, with 
clear options   to take the PPI or not take the PPI.
But in Mr and Mrs As mortgage application  the section for PPI was less clear.  It said:
The Society will arrange sickness, accident and unemployment insurance on behalf  of the 
first-named applicant  to cover the original mortgage  payment
Underneath this there are two tick boxes next to the statements:
Please tick if you require the second  named applicant to be insured
Please tick if you do not require or are not eligible for this cover
Neither of the boxes  is ticked.
This is unusual. I dont think its fair to expect a consumer to opt out of taking an insurance 
product, rather than opt in. And in this case the form was completed by a sales  advisor so Mr 
and Mrs A may not have seen or read the section carefully. The premium  for the PPI was 
Ref: DRN06062712wrapped up with their mortgage  payments  and I think its likely they didnt realise it was a 
separate, optional,  product. 
In its response to the adjudicators view,  Nationwide pointed  out that the PPI wasnt 
compulsory and that there was nothing in the subsequent documentation  to suggest that it 
was.  It also pointed to another decision by an Ombudsman at this service where the same 
documentation was used but the Ombudsman  did not uphold the complaint. Nationwide 
knows well that Ombudsmen  are entitled  to come to different  conclusions  and that each 
case is decided individually on its merits.  And it should also be aware that the 
circumstances of each  case  are rarely identical and in the case  it refers to the circumstances 
were different. 
So, I do not accept  Nationwides argument  that it made the optional nature of the PPI 
sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs A. I therefore uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
putting things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs A back in the position they would have been in if they 
hadnt bought PPI. So Nationwide should:  
-Pay Mr and Mrs A the amount they paid each  month for the PPI 
-Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year thereafter.  
-Mr A made several successful claims under the PPI policy.  Nationwide  can take off 
what Mr A got for the claims from the amount it owes them. 
-Nationwide can also take off any amount already paid to Mr and Mrs A in relation to 
undisclosed commission and profit  share. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide  to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide must give Mr and Mrs 
A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one
my final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs As complaint for the reasons Ive described above. Nationwide 
Building Society must  pay compensation as set out in putting  things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2021.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0606271