K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the delays and poor service he experienced from Lloyds Bank plc 
during the transfer of a secured loan. In particular Mr S says he has incurred additional  legal 
costs as his solicitor had to chase Lloyds for outstanding information.
background
In 2017 Mr Ss relative wanted to gift Mr S her part of a commercial property they jointly  held 
and to be removed  from the trading company. 
To complete the transfer of security, Lloyds required a new loan and a new security to be 
issued. The process was started in June 2018.  The transfer was completed  until March  
2019.
In October  2018 Mr S complained to Lloyds about the length of time the transfer  was taking. 
It accepted that it had caused some delays.  But it said that it had tried to contact Mr Ss 
solicitor on several occasions and had not received a response.  And it noted that 
documentation it had requested in June 2018  was not provided  until mid February 2019.
It paid Mr S £250 for the inconvenience its poor service had caused. But it said that it was 
not willing to contribute towards Mr Ss legal fees as the transfer couldnt have gone  ahead 
without the documentation it had requested from Mr Ss solicitor  in June 2018.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with Lloyds' response and brought  his complaint to this service.  
Our investigator said he felt the £250 Lloyds  had paid Mr S was fair. He said he accepted 
that Lloyds had caused some delays. But he said he must also take into account that 
documents it had requested from Mr Ss solicitor in late June 2018 were not returned to the 
bank until February 2019.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He said that he felt a large proportion  of his legal 
costs were due to  unnecessary and frustrating communication with Lloyds and the setting 
up of a new SS rather  than a simply variation, also complex searches were  requested  and 
given that this was actually  a transfer  of an old loan and the bank are actually only 
transferring this from one side of the bank to another one can only imagine  these were  
overly complex.
Mr S also provided copies of correspondence between  his solicitor and Lloyds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered all that Mr S has said and provided in relation to this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont think Lloyds needs to do more to resolve  this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
I appreciate that Mr S feels there  was no need  for a new security to be issued and a 
variation to the loan agreement should have  been sufficient. As our investigator  explained,  
the requirement for a new loan agreement was a commercial decision that Lloyds was 
Ref: DRN03529402entitled to make. I can see why Mr S feels a variation would have been a quicker   and less 
expensive way  to move his loan agreement to Lloyds. But I cant reasonably  say that 
Lloyds isnt entitled to determine on what basis it was prepared  to agree the loan Mr S 
wanted to transfer.
With regard to the delays, it is not in dispute that both Lloyds and Mr Ss solicitor  could have 
responded more  promptly. What  is in dispute is whether Lloyds should contribute to the legal 
costs Mr S incurred. 
I note that Mr S said he was working  overseas at the time the loan was being transferred. As 
this was the case he had asked his solicitor to liaise with Lloyds.
I have reviewed the email  correspondence Mr S has forwarded  to this service  between 
Lloyds and his solicitor. I agree that these  show that Mr Ss solicitor  had to chase Lloyds 
several times and had trouble getting a substantive response from Lloyds on occasion. 
But I note that in these emails  Mr Ss solicitor does not refer to the information Lloyds had 
requested in June  2018. Nor can I see from these  emails  that Mr Ss solicitor told him that it 
had not provided  information Lloyds had requested.
Although I accept that Lloyds did not respond  promptly on every occasion to Mr Ss solicitor  
this, in itself, did not delay  the transfer.  The transfer could not proceed without the 
documentation Lloyds  had requested and chased several times. It is not clear  why Mr Ss 
solicitor did not provide  this information  until February 2019.
From the records I have seen I agree that the service Lloyds provided could have been more 
efficient. But I dont  think it can reasonably be held responsible for the delay Mr S 
experienced.
I think the £250 Lloyds has paid Mr S for the trouble and upset this matter has caused him is 
fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0352940