K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs complaint is that he is unhappy  with the renewal premium he was offered 2017 for his 
motor insurance policy,  which was underwritten by Ageas Insurance Limited.
background
In 2014 Mr G arranged  a branded insurance policy through a broker. When an application 
was received the broker put the proposal  before its panel of underwriters for them to quote a 
price. Whichever gave the cheapest  premium  would be used to underwrite the policy. The 
same process was used  at each policy renewal. At the 2016 renewal of Mr Gs policy, Ageas 
was selected as the underwriter. Ageas was also selected as the underwriter for the 2017 
renewal. The broker then had the ability to adjust the premium  if it felt that was needed.
Mr G has told us that he paid £328.67 at the 2016  renewal.  However, when the 2017 
renewal offer was sent to him, it was for £539.25.  Whilst the broker  offered to discount the 
premium down to £447.17,  Mr G was still not happy  with the amount  and moved his 
insurance to another provider. Mr G noted at the time that when he sought insurance  
elsewhere that other than the insurer he chose,  he wasnt quoted less than £420.
Mr G has told us that subsequently he has moved  his insurance back to the branded  policy 
arranged through  the same broker. The premium he paid in 2018 was £413 and the policy  is 
underwritten by an insurer other than Ageas.
Mr G wasnt happy with the premium he was quoted  for his policy  and complained to both 
Ageas and the broker. Ageas explained that it sets its own rates  for policies based  on 
statistical information. It went  on to explain that this takes into account many factors,  but it 
declined to give any details about its pricing  structure. It didnt uphold  Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G referred  his complaint to this service as he was dissatisfied with Ageas response.  The 
complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators, who didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. Mr G wasnt satisfied and asked  that an ombudsman consider his complaint. He said 
that he thought  his change in premium was evidence that the insurance industry had, over 
the previous year, been inflating renewal prices.  He also commented that he believed that 
Ageas held a high percentage of policies in the market and, when this happens, an insurer 
can charge what it likes.
my findings
Mr G has made various comments about  Ageas behaviour within the insurance market  and 
about the market  as a whole. I would confirm that this service  isnt the appropriate 
organisation to consider those concerns. We are an alternative dispute  resolution service 
and so deal with each complaint referred to us on its individual merits. Mr Gs concerns  
about industry practice would be more appropriately  directed  to the regulator,  the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  I will consider the complaint  he has made against Ageas.
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that this will disappoint Mr G, but whilst he wants  a breakdown of the various  factors 
that led to increase his premium at renewal, it isnt something that hes entitled to. An 
Ref: DRN05589802underwriter will determine what risks it is willing  to accept. It doesnt have to accept  a risk its 
not willing to. Different  insurers will look at different situations in their own individual way. 
Exactly how an underwriter looks at different risks will change at times and will alter to take 
advantage of opportunities within the insurance market. As such,  underwriters wont release 
details of how they calculate premiums  because underwriter knowing how another  assesses 
risk, what  risks it is willing to take and how it prices those risks, could allow the a competitor 
to alter its own underwriting  to gain advantage. Due to this, we dont consider that its 
unreasonable for an underwriter to decline to provide a consumer with such  information, 
even if it only relates  to their individual  policy.  
I can understand Mr G being  unhappy with the significant  increase to his premium.  However,  
Ageas was right when  it explained that there  are numerous factors  that an underwriter will 
consider when setting  a premium. These  include factors relating to the vehicle itself, 
including the length of time a driver has owned  a car, its engine size, its safety  features, the 
costs of parts, how difficult  they are to steal etc. Alongside the considerations about the 
actual car, there are factors about what the vehicle is used for, where it is kept and the 
drivers who will be using it. Not all insurers consider the same factors  and they will each 
reach their own assessment of how much each  factor affects their perception of risk.
On top of the obvious factors about  the vehicle and its drivers, there may well also changes 
in underwriting  criteria in general. For example statistical information changing and, 
therefore, changing the risk profile  of one or more of the factors being considered.  
We dont interfere with how an insurer assesses risk or determines which  risks its willing to 
take. That would include how it decides to price  its policies  as long as there is no evidence  
that it is treating  a particular consumer or group of consumers unfairly or differently to the 
remainder of its customers. I havent seen anything in this case to say that Ageas acted 
inappropriately toward Mr G when  determining the price of his policy renewal. Indeed, the 
information Mr G has provided  indicates that the majority of other insurers  were offering  
premiums in the same region as that which he was ultimately offered at renewal.
I note that Mr G has recently told us that he has now returned to using the branded  policy 
subject to this complaint.  He was offered a policy at just over £400  in 2018, albeit 
underwritten by a different  underwriter.  Whilst this could  be interpreted as indicating that 
Ageas had tried to charge  Mr G too high a premium  in 2017, I dont think  it does. Firstly,  the 
amount Mr G has been charged  was for a different policy year and so they are not directly 
comparable. In addition,  many insurers and broking arrangements, such as that Mr G has 
used, offer significant  new customer discounts. 
Overall, whilst I know that Mr G thinks Ageas did something wrong  in asking for the renewal  
premium it did, I am not persuaded  that the evidence  indicates this is the case.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject  my decision before 
27 March 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0558980