K821x#15complaint
Mrs K is unhappy about the handling  of her water damage claim and the compensation shes 
been offered.  Mrs Ks home insurance policy is provided by U K Insurance Limited. Although  
other family members have been  involved,  Ill refer to Mrs K throughout this decision.
background
Mrs K contacted UKI to make a water damage claim. After  accepting the claim problems 
arose once  the stripping out work  started. This was because more  damage was uncovered. 
Mrs K has some  health concerns, so other family members  became involved in dealing  with 
the claim.  This led to problems as contractors  werent turning up even though family 
members had travelled  hundreds of miles  to ensure they were  available for meetings. Mrs K 
said communication overall  was very poor and after shed explained this the project manager 
was changed.  Things  didnt  improve and the original project  manager  returned. Eventually 
UKI offered £1,000 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused.  Mrs K brought 
her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said UKI needed to increase the distress and 
inconvenience offer by a further  £500  to bring  the total to £1,500.  She said the delays were 
avoidable and UKIs contractors  never kept Mrs K informed about what was going to happen  
and when. There was a dispute  about  alternative accommodation, Mrs K was worried  that 
UKI hadnt addressed all the different issues that cropped up. Mrs K didnt accept the 
amount and asked  for her decision to be passed  to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my provisional decision
It seems  that the project manager wasnt  replaced  on Mrs Ks claim instead somebody else 
stepped in while the original manager  was away. But I think  it was indicative of this case that 
UKI never thought to explain or discuss this with Mrs K. Even when ways to move  the claim 
forward were agreed action never seemed  to follow, or at least that was how the 
circumstances made  Mrs K and her family  feel. I think this was a reason why Mrs K worried 
that the repairs wouldnt be done to a good standard and the rot caused by the water  
damage would return.  Its not an unsurprising situation considering  how Mrs K feels  UKI has 
failed in its dealings  with her and her claim.
I think its accepted  that often when repair work  starts on claims, especially water  damage 
claims, more work might be uncovered during  the preparation and stripping out. Its fair 
comment for UKI to say that sometimes particular expert skills might  be necessary in doing 
the repair work. But that still doesnt mean a claim that should take roughly eight weeks to 
conclude should  continue to be ongoing after 10 months.
It has been pointed  out that if alternative accommodation is offered it needs to be similar to 
what the customer lives in. In this case Mrs K wasnt keen on moving from her home and 
when she did move the property wasnt a similar  one to her home - it was much smaller.  I 
dont know if a more  appropriate property was available  but again  its another issue that 
cropped up on Mrs Ks claim that UKI didnt resolve  to her satisfaction.
Due to the claim problems Mrs K appointed her own building  surveyor.  The surveyor 
produced a list of the outstanding works  and a request for a cash  settlement was made. This 
would allow Mrs K to choose her own contractors and complete  the repairs  without having to 
deal with UKI and its contractors any more. An amount at just over £5,500  was arranged as 
Ref: DRN00904112settlement. On top of this total compensation of £1,000 was offered for distress  and 
inconvenience based on the problems  UKI accepted it had caused  Mrs K.
I think Mrs K involving  the surveyor was crucial. I think without the surveyor the claim 
wouldnt have moved on quickly  enough.  I think upon receipt of the surveyors invoice  from 
Mrs K it would be fair for UKI to settle this amount  by reimbursing Mrs K what she paid the 
surveyor.
Its clear that Mrs Ks health wasnt good and UKI dont appear to have made extra effort  or 
allowances to account for this. Its clear they made  a bad situation worse. I think a prime 
example of this was Mrs Ks worry about  the security of her home when UKI made mistakes  
regarding her back door key.
Mrs K suffered  increased utility costs during the drying processes, but I think UKI has agreed  
to pay these costs. If Mrs K can produce  the bills to show those higher amounts I think that 
would be fair.
Mrs K needed support  during this difficult time.  I note that family  members did make  long 
journeys to help deal with some of the claim problems. In the circumstances Mrs K found 
herself, and with her health issues, I think it would be reasonable for UKI to pay for some  of 
the travel/petrol costs  Mrs Ks family  encountered.  I suggest £500 towards the expense 
Mrs Ks family endured.
There were difficulties at times  for Mrs K to use her downstairs facilities  for basic  needs such  
as cooking. But I havent noticed  any disturbance  allowance being  offered or paid. I think it 
should have been. Mrs K pointed out she was paying  for television services she was unable 
to use. Mrs K was also out of her home  for a lengthy  period. In view of all these factors  I 
think UKI should pay Mrs K £1,000 as a disturbance allowance for the problems  and any 
extra expense she incurred.
I accept that the problems  with the claim had a negative impact on Mrs K and her family. Our 
investigator said that she didnt think UKI had offered enough  compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  Mrs K suffered. I agree. I see that UKI has offered £1,000 so far but I 
think it should increase  this offer by a further  £750  due to all of the issues it created. Mrs K 
wasnt in good  health and I think UKI couldve been  more proactive and helpful in resolving 
the issues.
response to provisional decision
Mrs K felt that she should receive a higher amount in compensation for the problems UKI 
caused but was willing to accept the amounts I suggested so she can move on. She 
confirmed the original £1,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience had not been  
paid as shed  not accepted the amount.
Mrs K produced an invoice from her surveyor for £200 and UKI has agreed to pay this.
Mrs K was having difficulties producing utility bills so a figure of £200  has been agreed  with 
UKI.
UKI said the alternative  accommodation was chosen by Mrs K.
Ref: DRN00904113UKI also said there were  no problems  with Mrs Ks kitchen and that only the living  room  was 
out of action. So it said there was no need to pay any disturbance allowance.
UKI said it was unaware of the television costs Mrs K was incurring while  she couldnt watch 
it as the system was in her living room.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased that the parties have been  able to reach agreement on the surveyor  costs and 
the utility bills.
I agree  with UKI that Mrs K did highlight the alternative accommodation. However, Mrs K 
only came  back  to the point about  moving  as the repair works were still outstanding.  The 
repairs werent moving along as they shouldve been. I suspect if Mrs K had been aware 
from the start that the repairs would be hugely  delayed, she might  have agreed to moving 
out much  earlier. Im not quite sure what UKIs point is here. There  was nothing stopping 
them offering Mrs K a more appropriately sized alternative. It seems to me that it just chose 
not to, and Mrs K wasnt aware at that time that this service wouldve expected  UKI to offer 
her something comparable. There was no reason for UKIs representatives not to offer Mrs K 
something more in line with her own home  in terms of size.
I take UKIs  point about the kitchen  at the property  being useable. Although there are various 
points on the file that highlight the house  was suffering with dry rot, damp spores  and there 
was dust everywhere. But a disturbance allowance is more  than just about extra food costs 
and UKI are aware of that. For a period of time Mrs K lived in her own home  which her and 
family members referred to as a building  site.  The family also refer to dealing with this as 
one of the most stressful ordeals in our lives. Mrs K did spend some time in a hotel which 
did lead to extra expenses. Further, Mrs K was away from her normal  day to day life and 
routine. Despite the health issues Mrs K suffers she was detached from her friends and 
social life for the period she was away from her home. I understand what  UKI says  it might 
not have been aware  of the cost of Mrs Ks television services  while  she was unable to 
watch the TV. But Mrs K has confirmed she was paying approximately £50 per month  for this 
 and its clear she couldnt  use it. Also her other bills continued including  her council tax for 
a property she wasnt able to live in. In view of all the issues I think  the disturbance  amount 
of £1,000 should still apply.
Based on the responses Ive had Im not changing my provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to:
pay the agreed surveyors costs of £200;
pay the agreed extra utility bill costs of £200;
pay £500 towards extra travel/petrol  costs;
pay £1,000  disturbance allowance;
Ref: DRN00904114pay a further £750* compensation for distress and inconvenience  on top of the £1,000 
already offered.
*U K Insurance  Limited must pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs K accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0090411