K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that AXA Insurance  UK Plc have taken too long to deal with a claim on her
car insurance policy.
background
Mr D was involved in a car accident in October  2017. She contacted AXA to claim on her
policy and let them know that she wasnt at fault for the accident. AXA reviewed the claim
and said Mrs Ds car would be deemed a total loss. In line with the policy terms, AXA offered
Mrs D the market value  for her car which she accepted and was paid on 14 December 2017.
AXA reviewed the details of the claim and agreed it was likely Mrs D wouldnt be held to be
at fault. When AXA contacted the third partys  insurer,  they said that their driver was holding
Mrs D at fault for the accident. Because of this AXA asked  if there were  any witnesses to the
accident. Mrs D said there  was and that shed already provided their details.
During this time Mrs D complained to AXA. She was unhappy with how long the settlement
took, not having a courtesy car, and for the poor communication about adding  a replacement
car to her policy. AXA reviewed Mrs Ds complaint and partly  upheld it. They said that under
the policy they would provide a courtesy car for 14 days. As Mrs D hadnt  had a courtesy car
they paid her £210, which is the equivalent  cash amount. In recognition of the poor claim
handling and the delay  in paying the settlement  AXA paid Mrs D £400 compensation.
Mrs D wasnt satisfied with AXAs response so brought her complaint here. She said AXA
should have chased the third-party insurer sooner and that theyd taken too long to try and
recover their outlay  by proving the other party was at fault. She was also unhappy that AXA
cancelled her policy because a replacement car wasnt added  to it and that shed  been
asked for the witness details after shed  already  provided them.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 November  2019  where  I said:
When Mrs Ds car was declared a total loss, there was some  discussion between Mrs D and
AXA about its value.  I can see they then agreed  on the value which  was paid to Mrs D, as
this hasnt been complained about  here, I havent  considered the value of the car in this
decision. But I have  considered the length  of time it took to pay the settlement.
Its unclear when AXA actually paid the settlement, as it appears  it wasnt  originally received.
Both parties  agree Mrs D had received it by 14 December 2017. AXA acknowledged Mrs Ds
concerns with receiving  the settlement and the poor communication, because of this they
paid her £400 compensation. Im satisfied  this is a fair amount to cover the poor
communication and delay  in paying the settlement. I say this because  I think  it reflects the
level of distress and inconvenience  Mrs D experienced as a result of chasing  AXA multiple
times and the delay  in getting  her settlement amount.
Mrs Ds policy says if her car cant be repaired AXA will provide  a courtesy car for 14 days. If 
one cant be provided,  they will pay alternative  travelling costs  up to a maximum of £15 per 
day. As AXA have  paid £210, Im satisfied  theyve done what  they need to under the policy.  I 
therefore dont  think they need  to pay anymore in relation to this.
Ref: DRN01483872When Mrs Ds car was declared a total loss, AXA said a replacement car needs  to be added
to the policy  within 30 days. If one isnt the policy is then cancelled. AXAs internal notes say
this was discussed with Mrs D around the time the settlement was paid. I can also see an 
email was sent to Mrs Ds husband confirming the dates and explaining  if an extension was 
needed to let AXA know. As an extension  was requested and agreed,  I dont think  AXA did 
anything wrong  when Mrs Ds policy was cancelled. I say this because while there  was 
confusion over the exact date, AXA let Mrs D know a month  before that she needed  to add a 
replacement car to the policy. Also,  as Mrs D requested  an extension, but a car still wasnt
added Im satisfied AXA provided her with a reasonable amount of time to add a
replacement car.
Mrs D has also complained about  how long AXA have taken to recover their outlay from the 
third partys  insurer,  along with her excess on the basis  she wasnt  at fault. Mrs D said AXA
told her if theyre able to recover  their outlay from the third-party insurer they would refund
her excess  and provide  a pro rata refund of her policy  premium.  Ive looked to see if AXA
have done this within a reasonable time.
AXA internal  notes show they dont  hold Mrs D at fault for the accident. The notes say theyd
instructed solicitors to recover  Mrs Ds excess along  with her uninsured losses as well as
trying to recover their outlay on Mrs Ds claim.  As AXA believe  the other driver was at fault,
Ive looked at whether AXA could have progressed this claim sooner.
The notes show that AXA initially chased the third-party  insurer  multiple times to recover its
outlay. This went on for about a year. Our Investigator asked AXA at the end of      
September 2019 what had happened  with the claim. AXA replied and said the last note was 
made on 7 August 2019, saying theyd  been no contact from the third-party insurer since 
December 2018.  Because  of this they then instructed the claim to move to recovery.
The internal  notes also say information  hadnt been sent to the third-party insurer  for 16
months and if theyd done this sooner the claim could have been settled by now. I can also
see there was several months where  it appears AXA werent doing anything  to progress this
claim. Because of this Im not satisfied AXA have  handled this claim promptly and in a fair
and reasonable way.
As Im satisfied AXA havent  dealt with Mrs Ds claim promptly  and in a fair and reasonable
way, I need to consider the fairest way to put things  right. From reviewing AXAs internal
notes it seems AXA agree that its likely Mrs D wasnt at fault for the accident and this is how
the claim will be settled. Im also satisfied this would have happened  by now if AXA had
moved the claim forward sooner. In light of this, although its not certain this will happen, I
think AXA should mark Mrs Ds claim as non-fault (bonus allowed). As Im telling AXA to now
record the claim as non-fault they should also provide Mrs D with a pro-rata refund of her
premium, from the date it was cancelled,  and refund her excess. As shes  been  without this
money, they should  also add 8% simple interest  per year,  from the date the third party
insurer stopped  responding (December 2018) until the date its paid.
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision.  
Mrs D responded and said she didnt think £400 is acceptable compensation for the delays. 
Mrs D also said the settlement for her car was agreed over the phone on 21 November 2017 
and took three weeks to arrive. She said it was her husband who was informed about a 
replacement car needing  to be added  to her policy. Mrs D also raised concerns about AXAs 
involvement in her medical  expenses and personal accident cover. 
Ref: DRN01483873my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this complaint  didnt include Mrs Ds concerns  with her medical expenses and personal 
accident cover, I havent considered them here.  I understand Mrs D is now raising these with 
AXA separately. 
In my provisional decision Id considered the delay in Mrs D receiving the settlement for her 
car and taken into account  the delay was weeks  rather  than days.  Id also seen it was      
Mrs Ds husband whod  been e-mailed about adding  a replacement car to her policy. Taking 
all of this into account Im still of the opinion £400  is fair and reasonable compensation for 
the reasons explained above. I therefore see no reason to depart from my provisional  
findings. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
1. record this claim as non-fault (bonus allowed),
2. provide a pro rata refund of premiums from when the policy was cancelled, and
3. refund Mrs D her excess
Interest should  also be added to 2 and 3 above at a rate of 8% simple per year,  calculated
from December 2018 until the date its paid.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income 
tax from the interest,  it should tell Mrs D how much  its taken off. It should  also give Mrs D a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.  
Ref: DRN0148387