K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mrs G applied for a credit  card in 1996. Mrs G says she applied  for the card and the PPI by 
post but Lloyds hasnt  been able to confirm  this. It also cant  say when PPI was added to  
Mrs Gs account  but it wouldve been  between  1996 and January 2000.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Gs complaint didnt uphold it. Mrs G disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds needed  to make  it clear to Mrs G she had a choice about  PPI and get her agreement 
to it. Lloyds says its more likely than not it did this. But it hasnt got any paperwork or other  
records from the time to show  how it did so. Mrs G says she didnt agree to the PPI. But the 
sale was a long time ago and her recollections  of what happened arent detailed. 
Where, as in this case, Ive got very little information  from the time of the sale (which isnt 
unusual or surprising when it was a long time ago),  I have to think  about whats most  likely to 
have happened, based on that information and also on what we know  about Lloyds usual 
process for selling PPI in this period. And Lloyds has shown us a sample  credit  card 
agreement where  its clear a consumer  would actively have had to agree to the PPI. 
To uphold  Mrs Gs complaint on this point Id have to think  its more  likely than not Lloyds 
added PPI to Mrs Gs account without her knowledge or consent. And the information Ive 
got  essentially, Mrs Gs testimony   isnt strong enough on its own and without anything 
else to back it up for me to think thats a fair and reasonable  conclusion.  
On balance, looking at the limited information  Ive got, I think its more  likely  Mrs G agreed to 
the PPI at time and thats the reason it was added to her account.
Lloyds has treated the sale of Mrs Gs PPI as if it recommended it to her. So Lloyds needed 
to make sure it was right for her in her circumstances. From what  Ive seen of Lloyds PPI 
policies sold between 1996 and 2000,  and from the information Ive got from Mrs G about 
her circumstances around this time, I think it was. I say this because:
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mrs G wouldnt  have  been  eligible for the 
PPI.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mrs G wouldve been affected by any 
significant exclusions or limitations the policy she bought might have had  for 
example, for known  medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements. So I 
Ref: DRN01828682dont think its likely  there wouldve been  anything to stop her claiming the full policy 
benefit had she needed to.
Mrs G says she got some sick pay but I think the PPI couldve given her a useful 
benefit if she couldnt work, since it wouldve  helped with her card repayments  for up 
to 12 months for each  successful claim she made  which is longer than her sick pay 
wouldve lasted. And Mrs G doesnt  mention any savings or other insurance policies 
she couldve fallen back on if things got difficult.
Mrs G also says she changed jobs in 1998 and got better sick pay. But, in deciding if 
her PPI was mis-sold,  I need to look at Mrs Gs circumstance  when the policy  was 
sold, not afterwards.  And, although Mrs G says she wasnt aware  she could cancel 
the policy, I think its likely from what we know about  how Lloyds sold PPI at this time 
that her cancellation rights wouldve been  drawn to her attention when  she bought it.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mrs G couldnt afford the cover  or that its 
cost made it unsuitable for her.
As well as making sure it was right for her, Lloyds also had to give Mrs G enough clear 
information about the PPI for her to make an informed decision about  whether to buy it. I 
think its likely Lloyds didnt make some  things as clear as it shouldve   like the true cost 
and benefits of the policy and the things it didnt  cover. But, as Ive said,  I think  its likely       
Mrs G agreed  to the cover and I havent  seen anything to make me think it wasnt  right for 
her in her circumstances. I think clearer information from Lloyds would only have  confirmed 
this to Mrs G and wouldnt have  made  her change her decision. So I dont think Mrs G has 
lost out because of anything  Lloyds  did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0182868