K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Santander UK plc didnt tell her that she wasnt earning interest on her 
account because  she didnt have enough active  direct debits.  Mrs M considers this is unfair 
because she continued to pay a fee for the account.
background
Mrs M has a current account with Santander that pays interest when certain conditions are 
met. One of the conditions is that there  must be at least  two active direct  debits on the 
account. Some of Mrs Ms direct debits were  cancelled  so that only one remained active  on 
her account.  That meant there wasnt any interest paid, even though Mrs M continued to pay 
the account fee.
Mrs M raised the matter  with Santander  and it paid £25 as a gesture of goodwill. It said the 
conditions for payment  of interest  hadnt been  met, so it wasnt willing to cover  the interest 
Mrs M said shed  missed  out on. 
Mrs M contacted Santander again but the bank failed to log the call as a complaint. It offered 
another £50 for its poor service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Santander needed to do anything else. He concluded that Mrs 
Ms account  didnt qualify  for interest  when there  was only one direct debit from January 
2016. He was also satisfied that this information was available to Mrs M on her February 
2016 statement. The adjudicator considered Mrs M wouldve been made aware  that the 
account wasnt receiving  interest when  she reviewed  it online. 
Mrs M didnt  agree with the adjudicators conclusions  so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mrs Ms account include the following conditions to receive interest:
 -     You need to pay a monthly account fee.
-You need to pay in at least £500  a month.
-You must have  at least two Direct Debits set up.
-You must have  at least £1,000  in your account.
In addition, under the account terms the account fee is payable, whether or not interest is 
paid on the account.
From January 2016 Mrs M had only one direct  debit on her account. So Im not persuaded 
that the account qualified  for interest from that time.
Mrs M considers Santander  shouldve  specifically told her that the account wasnt  receiving 
interest. Im not persuaded thats the case.  It was for Mrs M to make sure that the relevant 
conditions were met to receive interest.
Ref: DRN09785702Nevertheless, I think Santander did enough to make Mrs M aware that the account wasnt  
paying interest. The February 2106  statement showed that there  hadnt  been  any interest 
paid during the previous  month. It also said:
To receive cashback and interest you must pay a £5 monthly account fee, fund your 
account with £500 a month (a minimum balance of £1,000 is required to receive interest);  
and set up a minimum of two active Direct Debits.
Mrs M considers the accounts online screen  is misleading because it shows the interest rate 
of 1.5%, and this is what she thought she was earning. But the amount of interest  paid is 
also displayed on the same screen. So again, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mrs M 
to be aware that interest wasnt being paid on the account.
Mrs M has also referred to circumstances where a bank should  notify  a customer in writing 
about an interest rate change. But the interest  rate on Mrs Ms account didnt change. 
Instead, the conditions for payment of interest  werent met. So Im not persuaded that 
Santander had to write to Mrs M as she suggests.
Santander has paid £25 as a gesture of goodwill,  and has offered another  £50 for poor 
service when Mrs M contacted it. I think thats  fair, and I dont  think  Santander needs to do 
anything else.
my final decision
My decision  is that Santander  UK plc should pay £50 to Mrs M in addition to the £25 it has 
already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0978570