K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  mishandled his home emergency 
insurance policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
On 27 April 2018 Mr E took out a British Gas HomeCare Two  policy.  It covered his boiler 
and his central heating  system. He agreed to pay an annual premium  of about  £174.00  by 
monthly instalments  of about £14.50.
The policy was subject  to a first service to check that British  Gas could cover his boiler.  On 
27 June 2018  British Gas did the first service and said it could cover the boiler. The engineer 
also did an annual service.
Mr E called for help with his boiler  in November 2018. British Gas said it couldnt fix the 
boiler or continue to cover it. British Gas cancelled the policy.  Initially it refunded £6.55 as 
part of an instalment Mr E had paid.
Mr E complained that he had to pay a plumber  over £600.00 to fix his boiler.
In its final response letter,  British Gas said it had refunded  a further  £87.00 (all six of the 
instalments that Mr E had paid).
After he brought his complaint to us, Mr E provided a copy of the plumbers invoice (for 
£620.53) and we sent it to British Gas.  British Gas offered Mr E £50.00 as a goodwill 
gesture. 
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that the 
business had acted  completely fairly by only issuing a full refund of the premiums and 
offering £50.00 as a goodwill gesture. He said that Mr E wouldve been able to get insurance 
from another company and as a result  his boiler costs wouldve been  covered. But as he 
was never given this opportunity, he had to get his boiler  repaired privately. The investigator  
recommended that British  Gas should  cover the costs for the boiler repairs in addition  to the 
premiums that had already been  refunded. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr E 
and to British  Gas on 28 May 2019.  I summarise my findings:
I wasnt persuaded that there was any particular  reason why British  Gas couldnt 
repair the boiler. Therefore I thought that it shouldve repaired it under the terms of 
the policy. I was satisfied that the plumbers invoice (dated 20 December 2018) 
showed that Mr E had to pay his plumber £620.53.
Ref: DRN07598212He wouldve had no expectation of a refund of premium- especially if he made a 
claim. Indeed he wouldve had to pay the £60.00 excess for a completed repair.
Therefore (unlike  the investigator) I was minded  to find it fair and reasonable to direct 
British Gas to compensate Mr E as follows:
plumber £620.53
less:
initial refund of premium     £6.55
further refund of premium   £87.00
policy excess   £60.00
total £466.98
Subject to any further information from Mr E or from British Gas,  my provisional  decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct  British Gas Insurance  
Limited to pay Mr E:
1.£466.98 towards the cost of his plumber;
2.simple interest  on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% from 20 December  2018 to 
the date British  Gas pays him. If British Gas considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr E how 
much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr E agreed with the provisional decision.
British Gas hasnt  responded to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The welcome letter said that Mr E had HomeCare Two (£60 Excess) . So I think  that British  
Gas wouldve charged him £60.00 for each completed repair.
The policy terms included the following:
At the first service our engineer will check that your boiler is on our approved list 
and your boiler or central heating and ventilation dont have any pre-existing faults.
If we find its not on the approved  list or it has a pre-existing  fault well either:
 Tell you what  needs to be done to fix it  and how much itll cost
 Offer  you a different product or level of cover
 Or, cancel  your agreement or product 
If we cant  get hold of the parts we need  we may need to cancel your agreement 
(or part of it) unless youre eligible for a replacement .
If weve agreed to cover  a boiler  or appliance  but warned you that it might be difficult 
to find spare  parts, well do what we can, within reason, to repair it.
We can cancel your agreement or product if:
Ref: DRN07598213
 Your boiler isnt on our approved list
 We find a pre-existing fault during your first service
 We cant  find the parts we need  to repair  your boilerdespite our attempts
The use of bold type denotes words and phrases defined in the policy  terms. And approved  
list was defined as follows:
approved list
- boilers, appliances or parts that we can repair  or replace
So, in my view, the test for whether Mr Es boiler was excluded  as not being on the British  
Gas approved list is whether British Gas couldnt  repair or replace it.
British Gas sent us an extract which said  in relation to the model of boiler Mr E had - the 
following:
Boiler not yet British  Gas Service  Listed, but some  or all parts may be available
There has been no suggestion that there is anything unusual  about that model of boiler.
The engineer on the first service uploaded a note including the following:
ADV RSL
I think thats an abbreviation  of Advised Restricted  Service List which is British Gas jargon 
for having told Mr E that not all spare parts would be available  for his boiler.
From the policy terms quoted above, I think British Gas was obliged to tell Mr E  at the first 
service  if his boiler wasnt  on the approved list. It didnt tell him that until much later  when 
he had problems in November 2018. I think it was too late to tell him then.
I can see that the visit on 12 November lasted nearly an hour.  So I dont think  the engineer  
said straightaway that he couldnt  repair the boiler. I think  he tried to repair  it but decided  he 
couldnt.
British Gas hasnt  explained  whether this was because  of a lack of spare parts  or for some 
other reason. And, of course, Mr Es plumber  succeeded where the British  Gas engineer had 
failed. During three visits on 30 November,  14 December  and 18 December he replaced  a 
diverter valve manifold  and a hot water valve diverter.
So Im not persuaded that there was any particular reason  why British Gas couldnt  repair  
the boiler. Therefore I find that it shouldve repaired it under the terms of the policy. Im 
satisfied that the plumbers  invoice  (dated 20 December 2018) shows  that Mr E had to pay 
his plumber £620.53. 
British Gas hasnt  provided evidence that it wouldve been possible and cheaper for Mr E to 
arrange repair and cover with another  provider. And I find it fair and reasonable to order 
British Gas to reimburse Mr E the amount of £620.53 (subject  to what I say later).
Ref: DRN07598214I dont find that British Gas treated Mr E fairly  by cancelling the policy. And the fact that it 
later refunded his instalments of premium doesnt  mean that British Gas was entitled to treat 
the policy as though  it had never  existed.
I think Mr E had the benefit of the policy from the time he took it out, after British  Gas did the 
first service,  during its visit on 12 November and until British Gas cancelled  it. The policy 
covered not only the boiler but also the wider  central heating system.
Mr E had agreed to pay the instalments. And he had enjoyed the benefit of the promotional  
voucher. He wouldve had no expectation  of a refund  of premium- especially if he made  a 
claim. Indeed he wouldve had to pay the £60.00 excess for a completed repair.
Therefore (unlike  the investigator) I find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to 
compensate Mr E as follows:
plumber £620.53
less:
initial refund of premium     £6.55
further refund of premium   £87.00
policy excess   £60.00
total £466.98
As Mr E has been out of pocket since  20 December  2018 I will order  British  Gas to add 
interest at our usual  rate.
Ive thought about ordering  British  Gas to pay compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused Mr E. But I think much  of that was to do with the fact that he had to 
pay the plumber.  So I think that the award  of interest  is enough to put that right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr E:
1.£466.98 towards the cost of his plumber;
2.simple interest  on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% from 20 December  2018 to 
the date British  Gas pays him. If British Gas considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr E how 
much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN07598215
Ref: DRN0759821