K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr G took out in 2003. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. M&S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint  and Ill explain why. 
Mr G says he took out the PPI over the phone.  M&S  has been  unable to confirm  how the PPI 
was sold, nor provide  a call recording or call script  to show  the process that wouldve  been  
used. However, M&S has provided an example of a written application form which  shows 
customers wouldve had to sign to show they wanted PPI  separately to where  they signed 
to apply for the credit card. 
Given that Mr G says the PPI was taken out over the phone, and M&S cant  say how it was 
taken out, Im not persuaded that Mr G wouldve seen or completed a written  application  
form such as the one M&S has provided.  As such M&S hasnt provided any evidence that 
convinces me that Mr G wouldve understood he had a choice  about  buying the PPI or that 
he agreed to it. 
Ive taken into account M&Ss comments. But I still think I should uphold  the complaint.
putting things right
M&S should put Mr G in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.M&S  should find out how much Mr G would owe on his credit  card if the policy  hadnt  
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
M&S should then refund  the difference between what  Mr G owes  and what  he would  
have owed.
Ref: DRN03925022If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, M&S can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when M&S works  out what Mr G would have owed each month without PPI  Mr G 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, M&S should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr G paid. And it should carry on paying interest  until the point when Mr G 
wouldve owed M&S something on his credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year. 
C.M&S  should tell Mr G what its done to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires M&S to take off tax from this interest. M&S must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc should  put things right by doing what  Ive said 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0392502