K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service  in connection 
with her home emergency insurance.
background
Mrs H had a new central  heating boiler in about 2008. From about 2011 she had home 
emergency cover in the name of a home  assistance company. 
In recent  years  Aviva was the insurer responsible for dealing  with claims. Where I refer to 
Aviva or the insurer I include the home  emergency  company, its engineers  and others for 
whose actions I hold Aviva responsible.
Instead of renewing  the policy from about  2 February 2019  Mrs H let the policy lapse.
On about 11 February  2019 Mrs H took out a new policy.  But it was subject  to Aviva doing a 
boiler health check (BHC) to see whether it could cover the boiler.
Aviva did the BHC on 21 February 2019. Aviva  identified  issues including an issue with the 
flue manifold. It said it wouldnt cover the boiler unless Mrs H paid for repairs  for which it 
quoted about £999.00. 
Through her daughter, Mrs H complained that the boiler had been  faulty  for years - so Aviva  
shouldve fixed it under the old policy.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Aviva 
wouldve checked the flue manifold in November 2017. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs H 
and to Aviva  on 1 November 2019.  I summarise my findings:
It wouldnt be fair and reasonable to direct the insurer to put things right unless it had 
done something wrong. And Mrs H and her daughter had fallen short of showing that 
there were faults with the heat exchanger or flue manifold which the insurer  shouldve 
seen and fixed in November 2017.
Subject to any further information from Mrs H or from Aviva,  my provisional decision was that 
I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint.  I didnt  intend to direct  Aviva Insurance Limited to 
do any more in response to this complaint.
Mrs H hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
Aviva hasnt disagreed  with the provisional decision.  But - at our request   it has sent us its 
notes of visits in February and March 2018.
Ref: DRN08048192my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H had cover not only for central heating but also other  home emergencies such as 
plumbing and drainage,  home electrics and pests.
The agreement also provided  a boiler service.  The policy documents said that wasnt 
covered by insurance. I note that there was a service visit on 13 July 2017.
After that, there was a repair visit on 15 November 2017. Ive seen  a note of that visit as 
follows:
replaced pcb, earth pins and leaking filling loop and tested, all ok.
From that I find that the insurer had replaced parts including the printed circuit board, the 
main electronic component of the boiler. Theres not enough technical evidence  to show  that 
there were at that time faults with the heat exchanger or flue manifold.
Aviva has now shown  us evidence that Mrs H arranged repair  visits in February  and March  
2018  a period that included some very cold weather.  The notes include the following:
flame sensing electrode twisted repair and test
Theres not enough technical  evidence  to show that there were at that time faults  with the 
heat exchanger or flue manifold.
Theres no evidence that Aviva visited again  after March 2018 before  the old policy  fell due 
for renewal on about 2 February 2019. Mrs H didnt  renew it.
And the new policy from 11 February  2019 contained terms as follows:
During the BHC our engineer will check that your boiler  meets our eligibility criteria, 
your boiler or central heating don't have any pre-existing faults and is in good 
working order. If the BHC fails we'll either
 Tell you what  needs to be done to fix it - and how much it'll cost if it's a repair we 
can complete
 Remove the boiler/system element of cover from your policy  and adjust your 
premiums accordingly
 Or, cancel  your agreement if you only have cover  for your boiler/system  and 
provide a refund
Im satisfied that when  Mrs H bought the new policy, the requirement for a BHC was 
highlighted in the product  information.
Ive seen a note dated 21 February 2019 as follows:
Main heat exchanger/flue  manifold has perished and is leaking products of 
combustion within boiler chamber
Ref: DRN08048193That meant the boiler failed the BHC. Mrs H was left in a difficult  situation without a usable 
boiler or the means  to get it repaired or replaced.
But it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to direct the insurer to put things right unless it had 
done something wrong. And Mrs H and her daughter have fallen short of showing that there  
were faults  with the heat exchanger or flue manifold which the insurer  shouldve  seen and 
fixed in November 2017 or in February/March 2018.
So I dont  find it fair and reasonable to direct  the insurer to do any more  in response to this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0804819