K821x#15complaint
Miss S has complained  about  short-term loans granted to her by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as Quick  Quid (Quick  Quid  or the lender).
background
I set out the circumstances  leading to this complaint and my initial  conclusions  in a 
provisional decision to both parties in March 2019.  I have included  a copy of this at the end 
of this document and so I wont repeat its content  here. A table of the loans under 
consideration is shown in an appendix  to my provisional decision. 
Miss S agreed with my provisional  decision. Quick Quid didnt agree and in response it 
provided new information about  what figures  it used in its affordability checks. And it said 
that
the customer should  be able to make their repayments out of their normal 
disposable income. If they are approved for a multi-period  loan their final repayment  
will be larger  than their previous repayment(s). Therefore, the customer may need to 
save disposable income from a prior month in order to make  the final repayment out 
of their disposable income. It is important to note that every loan Miss [S] borrowed 
was scheduled  to be repaid over more than one month. Therefore, Miss [S] would 
have accumulated up to 3 months  worth of disposable income to make her 
repayments with us. 
Its important to note that Miss [S] was advised  of the amounts of her monthly 
payments and confirmed that she was able to afford  the repayments on each of the 
due dates.  Miss  Ss loan contract would have contained an acknowledgement  
(entitled acknowledgement of affordability and truthfulness) that she may have to 
save money over the life of the loan in order to make the final repayment  out of her 
disposable income. 
Miss S had a good lending and repayment history
there were gaps  in Miss Ss lending history of between 1 to 130 days  
the amounts Miss S borrowed fluctuated which exhibited a lack of financial 
dependency on our product.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As before, I have also taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good  industry practice at the time. 
I appreciate that this is going to be disappointing for Quick Quid but having carefully 
considered what  it has said in response to my provisional decision, I am still of the view that 
it should not have agreed  to lend to Miss S from  January 2016. I will not repeat everything 
Ive said in my provisional decision (as this is set out later in this document) but I will respond 
to its specific objections.
Firstly  I explained in my provisional decision  that Quick Quid  recorded Miss Ss income 
and expenditure,  ran credit checks and calculated an estimated disposable income  figure or 
EDI when  she applied for each of her loans  I said that I understand  the lender used some  
Ref: DRN02986762information about Miss Ss monthly credit commitments in the EDI calculation,  but I dont 
know what Quick Quid found out about these from its credit file checks  or how it incorporated 
this information.  In any case, the EDI figures dont appear to vary significantly from Miss Ss 
stated disposable  income figures.
In response to my provisional decision Quick Quid provided a new set of estimated 
disposable income figures it said it used in its lending decisions and explained in greater  
detail how these were  calculated. Given the different sets of figures that have  been  provided 
in this case, Im not sure I can put much weight on any of these calculated figures. However, 
these new figures are either the same  or lower  than the disposable income level Miss S told 
the lender she had in her applications.  In some cases the calculated EDI is significantly less 
than Miss Ss stated  disposable income,  something  which should potentially  have prompted 
the lender to look into her circumstances in more  detail. But as Ive explained in my 
provisional decision, had Quick Quid looked  further  into Miss Ss circumstances from her 
second loan onwards, it would not have agreed to lend to her from (and including) loan 4. 
And, having considered the matter,  this new information doesnt alter that outcome. 
acknowledgement of affordability and truthfulness
Quick Quid says that Miss S would have been able to accumulate  three  months worth of 
disposable income in order to repay each of its loans  because they were to be repaid over 
more than one month.  But Quick Quids  data shows that the minimum loan term was 2.6 
months and seven of its loans had a term of less than 3 months. And it hasnt shown me that 
it enquired about  Miss Ss wage date in order to understand how many  wage packets  she 
would have received during the loan terms. So I dont think  Quick Quid  could safely  assume 
that she would have received three  over the contractual lifetime  of each of its loans. 
Quick Quid provided a screenshot of one of Miss Ss loan contracts which it says shows she 
confirmed that she would  be able to afford the repayments  on each of the due dates. This 
seems to be at the time of her fourth  loan, but it is undated and I dont know the context 
within which  this appeared. Even assuming Miss S saw and acknowledged  this declaration, 
this doesnt of itself absolve Quick Quid of the obligation to assess whether or not its loan 
repayments might cause any difficulty for her nor does it transfer the responsibility for 
assessing this risk to Miss S.
Nevertheless, as I explained  in my provisional decision, I did take into account the fact that 
all of Miss Ss loans were  to be repaid over three payments. So for each  of her loans I 
thought about whether or not it was reasonable for Quick Quid  to have made  a lending 
decision on the basis that Miss S could carry forward surplus income  from month to month. 
And, in taking this into consideration, I didnt  uphold Miss Ss complaint about her second 
loan. However, Miss S was spending more  than her income and I found Quick  Quid  ought to 
have discovered  this when she applied for her fourth loan.  And so it should  not have agreed  
to the loan because it seems  she wasnt  likely to be able to repay any level of credit in a 
sustainable way irrespective of how the repayments were structured. Similarly, Quick  Quid  
should not have agreed to any of Miss Ss subsequent loans.
Ref: DRN02986763repaying on time or early
I also considered this point in my provisional decision. I didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint 
about her second  loan taking into account  that shed repaid her first loan early and that this 
was early on in their lending relationship.
I said I have  also thought  about  the fact Miss S repaid all but one of her loans early. While  
early repayment might  not have raised  concerns early on, I think the more Miss S continued 
to borrow from Quick  Quid the more questions this should have raised about the 
sustainability of her finances. 
As Quick Quid is no doubt aware,  the regulations in place at the time it agreed  these loans  
required high cost short term lenders to assess whether or not a borrower would be able to 
repay its loans sustainably. The regulations defined sustainability as being  able to meet  
repayments out of normal  income  and/or savings and explained that repaying a loan 
sustainably means  without having  to borrow or go without.
If a consumer manages to successfully  repay  a loan either  on time or earlier than set out in 
the loan agreement, this doesnt automatically mean  that they have managed to repay it in a 
sustainable manner   they may have had to borrow from elsewhere in order to meet their 
loan repayments  or they may have  had to go without. And they may be left in the situation  
where they have  to borrow again  from the same lender because repaying the previous loan 
left such a gap in their available  funds.  And so I cannot reject  Miss Ss complaint about these 
loans solely  on the basis that she successfully repaid  them.
As for the gaps in lending  Quick Quid has pointed out - I can accept that where there is a 
period of time between someone  repaying  a loan and applying for another  one, it might be 
reasonable to conclude  that their immediate  funding shortfall had been met and that they 
were not relying  on high-cost short-term credit  to meet an ongoing  need.  And so it might be 
proportionate for a lender  to carry out less stringent checks or gather less information  than 
might be expected for an affordability assessment prior to or in the absence  of such a gap. 
However, I dont think there  is an absolute  figure  for the length  of gap that signifies  a 
dependency on such credit or one that signifies a lack of dependency. I am likely to view a 
gap of one or two pay cycles differently to a gap of a year. But my conclusions about  what a 
gap might signify will depend  on the circumstances of the consumer  and the particulars of 
the lending relationship. 
In this case Quick Quid  says that there  were gaps of up to 130 days between Miss S 
repaying one loan and asking for another. There were three gaps of over two months - the 
longest gap came before Miss S applied for her fifth loan, then later before her 12th and 13th. 
I considered all of these in my decision but given the circumstances  in each of these cases, I 
concluded Quick  Quid ought to have  looked  further into Miss Ss circumstances before 
agreeing to the loans.
I said Miss S asked  for a fifth loan about  four months after repaying her fourth  and it was for 
a lower amount  of £500. This was now the fifth time in about ten months that Miss S had 
asked for credit.  And the maximum repayment  (£632) would take up most  of her declared 
disposable income. So I think Quick Quid should  also have queried her circumstances 
further before agreeing to this loan.
Ref: DRN02986764Miss S went on to ask for a further eight loans. And even though there were some gaps of 
two to three  months  between Miss S repaying one loan and asking for another,  Quick Quid 
should have continued to look further  into her circumstances throughout the lending 
relationship, given the number of loans she took out.
fluctuations in Miss Ss loan amounts
It is true that the amount of money Miss S borrowed fluctuated. I dont know  if she always  
received the amount she applied for. Even assuming this, I dont think the variation in the 
loan amounts means that she wasnt dependent on Quick Quids loans. The frequency of 
Miss Ss borrowing and the number of loans taken  out suggests  to me that she wasnt 
borrowing from Quick Quid to help with a short-term emergency but rather to meet an 
ongoing need. Miss S started  out by borrowing £400 from the lender and ended up over 18 
months later owing £700 plus interest.  Even if the amounts varied throughout her lending 
journey, it doesnt  seem  to me that her financial situation was improving over this time. And 
had Quick Quid carried out proportionate checks its likely that it would  have seen that its 
loans werent sustainably affordable for Miss S when she applied  for her fourth loan and 
beyond. 
what Quick Quid should  do to put things right
Ive concluded  that Quick  Quid was irresponsible to agree to lend to Miss S from January 
2016 onwards,  namely loans 4 to13b  in the summary table. In order to put Miss S back  in 
the position she would have been  in, had it not agreed these, Quick Quid  should: 
-refund all interest  and charges Miss S paid for loans 4 to 12;
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-I understand  that Miss S hasnt made any repayments for loan 13,13a  or 13b. Assuming 
Quick Quid still owns this debt, it ought  to remove any outstanding interest from this loan 
so that just the capital remains. And it can use the above refund to offset  the capital 
amount if it chooses to do so. 
-remove any adverse information about all of these loans from Miss Ss credit  record;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid  must give 
Miss S a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Ss complaint in part about  CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as Quick  Quid and 
require it to put things right for her as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN02986765COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss S has complained  about short-term  loans  granted to her by CashEuroNet  UK LLC trading as 
Quick Quid  (Quick Quid or the lender).
background
Quick Quid  agreed 13 loans for Miss S from August 2015 to February  2018. These were  all deferred 
payment loans with three repayments, only the last of which included a repayment of capital. I have 
included some  of the information the lender provided  about these  loans in an appendix to this 
document.
Miss S says that Quick Quid was irresponsible to lend to her, especially after she needed to extend  a 
loan repayment period due to financial hardship. She says she ended up dependent on short term 
loans and borrowed repeatedly. 
Our adjudicator found  that Miss Ss complaint should be upheld in part and recommended that Quick  
Quid refund  the interest and charges she paid on loan 2, loans 4 to 12 inclusive and from the point 
she asked for additional credit on her 13th loan. 
Miss S agreed with this adjudication but Quick  Quid didnt  and so the complaint has come to me, as 
an ombudsman, to review  and resolve.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time.  
In response to our adjudication, Quick Quid said in  response to FOS assessment which  
recommends CashEuroNet  UK uphold loans which were funded after March 2015,  we regret  to inform 
you that we cannot agree  to FOS recommendations. Please note that in CashEuroNet UKs initial 
response to FOS we provided detailed  information indicating why the loans were responsibly lent to 
Miss [S]. Furthermore, we would like to advise  that we are currently in talks with senior management  
at FOS to amicably resolve this outstanding issue, therefore we kindly ask that you move this case to 
the ombudsman queue for a final decision.
The lender also supplied a document  with information about its  entire lending process  including all 
the checks  that we performed prior to lending, the screenshots  of customer  applications  as well as the 
sample acknowledgement from the contract that customers have to check when their repayment  
amount is greater than their estimated disposable income. 
However, Quick  Quid didnt  comment  on our adjudicators findings about the proportionality of its 
checks or the affordability of the loans, nor did it provide any new information  for me to consider. The 
document the lender  sent in response to our adjudication is one it seems to send to this Service as a 
matter of course on many  of its complaints.  It is a generic document which doesnt directly address 
any of the points made in the adjudication but explains  why it is of the view that all of its lending 
decisions were made responsibly after March 2015. 
This Service has responded to Quick Quid on this generic argument directly and through earlier final 
decisions. So I am not going  to expand on this point any further here, though I have considered  it 
alongside everything else in making my decision. 
Ref: DRN02986766I would remind Quick Quid  at this point of the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) guidance in how 
complaints are to be dealt  with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular  DISP 
1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result  of determinations  by the Ombudsman are effectively  applied 
in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination  by the Ombudsman to the individuals  in the respondent who handled 
the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman  concerning complaints received 
by the respondent and using this in training and development  of the individuals dealing with 
complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance  produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the 
Financial Ombudsman Service  and communicating it to the individuals dealing  with complaints in 
the respondent.
My decision  will focus on the specifics of Miss Ss complaint and what  both parties  have said about  
this.
The FCA was the regulator  at the time Miss S borrowed the loans in question. Bearing in mind  the 
rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business (PRIN)  and its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC), I would expect a lenders affordability assessment to vary with circumstance. (I am not 
quoting the specific regulations here because, as before, I would expect Quick Quid  to be conversant  
with these  through previous  ombudsman decisions, particularly recent decisions, which  set these  out 
in detail.) 
In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id expect  a 
lender to seek more  assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income; or
-the longer the lending  relationship.
Turning to the specifics  of Miss Ss complaint, Quick Quid recorded  Miss Ss income  and expenditure, 
ran credit checks and calculated an estimated disposable income figure or EDI when she applied for 
each of her loans. I understand the lender used some information about  Miss Ss monthly  credit 
commitments in the EDI calculation, but I dont know what Quick Quid  found  out about these from its 
credit file checks or how it incorporated this information.  In any case, the EDI figures  dont appear to 
vary significantly from Miss Ss stated  disposable income  figures.
Our adjudicator found  that Quick Quid didnt carry out proportionate  checks for any of the loans it 
agreed for Miss S, apart from the first one. I agree, and for the same reasons.  
Quick Quid  ought to have been concerned that Miss S might not manage to repay her second loan in 
a sustainable way, given the size of the largest loan repayment  (about £856) relative  to her stated 
monthly disposable  income (£675). And when she asked for a third loan within  a couple  of weeks 
after repaying  the second  loan, albeit  of much  lower  value, Quick Quid ought to have considered that 
Miss S might be dependent on short term lending  to meet  an ongoing need rather  than to cover a 
short term gap in her income. So it ought to have enquired further about  Miss Ss expenses  to check if 
there was anything beyond her regular  expenses, such as other short term loans, which could impact 
on her ability  to repay these two loans. Without knowing what  the credit  checks would have revealed 
or how it responded to these, I cant say that the lender did enough here.
Miss S asked  for a larger amount of £950 when  she applied for credit  for the fourth time. At this point 
Quick Quid  shouldnt  have  continued to rely on the information she provided. I think  a proportionate 
Ref: DRN02986767check would have led Quick Quid to look further into Miss Ss financial  circumstances than it did for 
her earlier loans and to seek some verification of her income and expenditure. Miss S asked for a fifth 
loan about four months after repaying her fourth and it was for a lower amount of £500.  This was now 
the fifth time in about ten months that Miss S had asked for credit.  And the maximum  repayment 
(£632) would take up most of her declared  disposable income.  So I think Quick Quid should also have 
queried her circumstances further before agreeing  to this loan.  
Miss S went on to ask for a further  eight loans. And even though there were  some gaps of two to 
three months between Miss S repaying  one loan and asking for another, Quick Quid  should  have 
continued to look further into her circumstances  throughout the lending  relationship, given  the number 
of loans  she took out. I have also thought about the fact Miss S repaid all but one of her loans early. 
While early repayment  might not have raised  concerns early on, I think  the more Miss S continued to 
borrow from Quick  Quid the more questions this should  have raised about the sustainability of her 
finances. 
Our adjudicator found  that, had Quick  Quid  carried out proportionate  checks from loan 2 it wouldnt 
have agreed  credit for Miss S (apart from loan 3 and the initial credit it agreed for loan 13) because  it 
would have learnt these loans were  likely to be unaffordable for her. Our adjudicator  also pointed  out 
that Quick Quid ought to have foreseen that some of the loans were unaffordable based  on the 
information it had gathered from Miss S about her income and expenditure. 
loans 1 to 3
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss S but I dont plan to uphold her complaint about her first 
three loans.  Our adjudicator upheld  her complaint about loan 2 because  the highest repayment was 
greater than the disposable  income shed declared to the lender. 
When Miss S applied for loan 2 she told Quick  Quid that she had £675  in disposable  income a month.  
It doesnt  seem that Quick Quids checks uncovered  any contradictory  information  and I dont think  
proportionate checks would have provided  any. I can see from Miss Ss bank statements  that she was 
borrowing from other short  term lenders at that time. But it seems that she had repaid everything 
outstanding by the time she asked  for this loan. Although she borrowed again from these lenders in 
the days  after taking out this loan, I dont think on balance Quick  Quid would have been aware of this 
pattern at this stage in the lending relationship and so wouldnt consider that her disposable income  
would be impacted.
Although the third repayment was more  than the disposable income  Miss S usually had available to 
her each month, I have considered that loan 2 was to be repaid in three lots of £186, £151 and £856  
(rounded). I have thought  about whether or not it was reasonable for Quick Quid  to agree to this 
particular loan on the basis that Miss S might  have  a surplus left over from month to month to help 
meet her final repayment.   I have borne in mind  that Miss S repaid her first loan within about  two 
weeks which might suggest that repaying  it didnt cause her difficulties. She then asked for this 
second loan within a matter  of days. However, given this was Miss Ss second loan I wouldnt expect 
Quick Quid  to have a sense of how Miss S managed its loans at this point. And considering the 
amount of the first and second repayments in relation to her declared  disposable  income,  I dont think 
Quick Quid  was wrong to have agreed to it. 
loans 4 to 13 
I plan to uphold Miss Ss complaint about loans 4 to 13 for the same  reasons our adjudicator  did. Had 
Quick Quid  looked further into Miss Ss circumstances  for these  loans it would likely have learnt  that 
she wouldnt  be able to afford to meet her repayments in a sustainable way, irrespective  of how the 
loans were structured.  Throughout this time Miss S was borrowing regularly from several other high 
cost credit providers, held two credit  cards and was in a debt management plan. And it seems  from 
her bank statements  that she was repaying  several personal loans over this time and was constantly 
overdrawn. In addition to managing existing  debt, Miss Ss spend on gambling exceeded her income,  
Ref: DRN02986768especially throughout 2016. I think its likely Quick Quid would have discovered some  if not all of this 
and, as a responsible lender, wouldnt have  agreed any of these  loans for her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint about the initial advance  of £300 Quick  Quid agreed 
in February 2018. They found that this loan would  have appeared  affordable to Quick Quid had it 
looked into her finances  in more detail  at that point because shed received a PPI repayment of about 
£1,300 which temporarily boosted her available money. I note Miss S received this over a month 
before taking out this loan,  it didnt bring her account back into credit and it was taken out in multiple  
withdrawals over the following few weeks. So when Quick Quid  came to agree this 13th loan for 
Miss S, I dont  think it would  have learnt that she had any additional  money  available to her or even if 
she had, that it would alleviate  her finances to such an extent that Quick  Quid would have agreed to 
lend to her again.
what Quick Quid  should do to put things  right
Ive concluded that Quick  Quid was irresponsible to agree  to lend to Miss S from January 2016 
onwards, namely loans  4 to13b in the summary table. In order to put Miss S back in the position  she 
would have been in, had it not agreed these, Quick Quid should:  
-refund all interest  and charges Miss S paid for loans 4 to 12;
-pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the dates of 
settlement;
-I understand that Miss S hasnt made any repayments for loan 13,13a or 13b. Assuming Quick 
Quid still owns this debt, it ought to remove any outstanding  interest from this loan so that just 
the capital  remains.  And it can use the above refund to offset the capital amount. 
-remove  any adverse information about all of these  loans from Miss Ss credit record;
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest.  Quick Quid  must give Miss S a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to partially  uphold Miss Ss complaint for the reasons given above and require CashEuroNet 
UK LLC Limited (trading as Quick Quid)  to put things right as Ive set out. 
Ill wait two weeks to see if either party  has anything further to add  before considering my decision 
on this complaint once more.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02986769Appendix Miss Ss loan information 
Start date End date Principal (£)Maximum 
instalment 
(£)Loan term 
(days)
1 06/08/2015 21/08/2015 400 496 85
2 24/08/2015 16/10/2015 700 856 98
3 03/11/2015 28/11/2015 50 62 87
4 22/01/2016 29/01/2016 950 1,170 98
5 07/06/2016 27/06/2016 500 632 85
6 28/06/2016 16/07/2016 1,150 1,426 94
7 31/07/2016 04/09/2016 900 1,123 92
8 09/09/2016 07/11/2016 400 496 82
9 30/12/2016 26/05/2017 550 686 91
10 08/06/2017 27/06/2017 500 624 84
11 07/08/2017 09/08/2017 1,150 1,444 85
12 11/10/2017 25/11/2017 600 744 77
13 19/02/2018 300 367 95
13a 08/03/2018 200 612 78
13b 09/03/2018Outstanding
200 857 77
Ref: DRN0298676