K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr F bought  the policy in 1994 at the same time as taking out a loan. He applied  for the loan 
and PPI policy in branch.  
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £267.70  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
for £1,500, repayable over a 36-month  term and the policy term matched that of the loan. 
The PPI cost £10.13 a month.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr F for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  Mr Fs monthly loan repayment for the 
remaining term in the event of a successful  disability claim and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr F was employed as a mechanical electrical engineer  and he has told us he 
was entitled to some sick pay. Mr F also says he had an insurance  policy  which he couldve 
relied on in the event  he was suddenly unable to work,  however,  Ive not been able to rely on 
this evidence due to the lack of detail provided  about this policy.  Ive addressed this in more  
detail later in my decision. Mr F has said he had a medical condition at the time of the sale. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in November 1995.
Mr Fs representative  has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Fs representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr F wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Fs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr F about the poor value;
 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr F and the impact they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN03233622The information Mr F received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr F disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Fs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs complaint
This sale took place  in 1994 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1995. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:

Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN03233623The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Fs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Fs complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr F with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr F sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr F, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr F suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr F and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr F know he had a choice?
Ref: DRN03233624Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Unfortunately, due to the length of time that has now passed since  this policy was sold there  
is limited evidence available. So, I havent got a copy of the loan agreement or any notes 
from the meeting.  But Lloyds have sent me a sample loan agreement which they say is the 
same or similar to the one Mr F wouldve  completed and signed at the time. This sample  
shows the PPI was listed as Optional Payment Protection in the loan table at the top of the 
agreement. And further down the page there is a separate box for PPI where  Mr F wouldve 
had to tick the yes box to agree to the cover being  added to the loan. 
While I havent seen  Mr Fs actual loan agreement, Ive not seen any reason why it wouldnt 
have been the same or similar  to the sample loan agreement Lloyds provided. And based on 
this agreement I think its clear that the PPI was an optional product and its likely it wouldve 
only been added to Mr Fs loan if hed ticked the box to agree to the cover.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr F knew the policy was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice during this sale. Mr F disagrees. As things stand, there isnt 
enough information to determine  this point. But being able to do so isnt crucial  to the 
outcome because, had Lloyds recommended the policy,  I think it wouldve been a suitable 
recommendation to have  made for the reasons I set out below. As a result, Ive considered 
the complaint  on the same basis as Lloyds.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr F with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr F. It seems Mr F cant remember clearly  what happened  and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had some limited information  about 
Mr Fs financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Mr F would have  been caught by the significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Mr F had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr F given his circumstances. So, Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr F, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr F met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN03233625-Mr F had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Fs ability to continue  to meet 
his loan repayments would have been  put under strain if he was not working for an 
extended period  of time  even  allowing for the death in service,  redundancy and sick 
pay benefits he says he would have been entitled  to. Mr F also said he had an 
insurance policy which  he couldve relied  on. We contacted  his representative and 
Mr F directly  to ask for more  information  about  this. But, at the time of writing we 
havent received  any more information  about this policy. So unfortunately, without 
any other details Im cant rely on what Mr F has said to conclude  that having this 
other policy meant the PPI wasnt suitable for him. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr F.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr F. There was 
nothing about  Mr Fs employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult for 
him to claim. Regarding  pre-existing  medical conditions,  Mr F has told us about  the 
hypoglycaemia and frozen shoulder he suffered from before the sale.  But these dont 
appear to be caught by the specific terms and conditions on limitations and 
exclusions. And based on what  Mr F has told us about these conditions,  neither had 
affected him for many  years before the sale took place.  Ive not seen any evidence 
that Mr F had to take time off work  at the time, so I think  its unlikely he wouldve 
needed to take time off for these conditions going forward. There were  also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mr F cancelled the policy 
early, the loan term was relatively short and there is nothing  to suggest (at the time) 
that Mr F had plans to repay  the loan early. The purpose of the loan was not debt 
consolidation or anything else which might suggest a need to repay the loan early,  or 
that this was likely to happen.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr F sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr F was given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr F was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr F would have taken out the policy  without any 
sense of what the policy was. And I think Mr F knew that the single premium being  added to 
the loan and the monthly cost was £10.13  each  month (as its likely this information was, in 
my view, sufficiently clear as seen  on the sample  loan agreement Lloyds says was used  at 
the time.   
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the total cost of the PPI inclusive of interest,  or 
about the exclusions or limitations before Mr F agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr F Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
Ref: DRN03233626and reasonable to Mr F. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr F all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Fs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Fs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Fs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr F about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Fs representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr F has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
What effect did Lloyds shortcomings  have on Mr F? To what extent did Mr F suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr F. So, I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr F suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr F would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr F, I have  found  that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr F has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr F would have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr F says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN03233627Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr F had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised him that there was a suitable  
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Fs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. Although  I 
consider it more likely  than not that Mr F knew he was borrowing the money  to pay for the 
policy and that it would  cost £10.13 a month, it doesnt appear  Lloyds  told him the total cost 
of the policy  over the loan term including the interest.
 
Having said that, given the loan was relatively small  and interest  would only accrue  over 36 
months, and the interest would not have made the policy cost significantly more than Mr F 
realised, I dont think it likely the missing  cost information would have affected Mr Fs 
decision to buy the policy in his circumstances. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr F would  have found  the cost unacceptable  if he had been 
given all of the cost information during the meeting in which he agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr F would get back  in return  
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Fs expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr F thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr F 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Mr F repaid the loan early and the 
policy was cancelled,  so it wouldve been more expensive for Mr F to have done so; 
and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr F be unable to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr F pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude the policy  wasnt as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr F from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
Ref: DRN03233628cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
The evidence about Mr Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. As Ive said above, although Mr F says he had some 
medical conditions  when the PPI was taken out and the policy  wouldnt have provided cover  
had he needed  time off work because of these conditions, I dont think  better information 
about this exclusion  would have put him off agreeing  to it. I say this because  based on what  
Mr F has told us about these conditions, neither had affected  him for many years  before the 
sale took place.  Ive not seen any evidence that Mr F had to take time off work at the time, 
so I think its unlikely he wouldve needed to take time off for these conditions going  forward 
 or at least not long enough to necessitate  Mr F making a claim.  
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr F would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr F had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr F was unable (through disability) to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr F would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  were  Mr F made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr F 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Fs representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) make  
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. 
Ref: DRN03233629In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mr F would not have 
bought the PPI he bought  unless , in the particular circumstances of the complaint, there is 
evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Fs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr F 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr F believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr F in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr F compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr F thinks  Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr F, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1994 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Fs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr F and about  the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr F in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN032336210Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0323362