K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with a loan.
background
Mr W took out the policy in August 1996  at the same  time as arranging the loan in a branch  
of Lloyds.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mr W disagrees with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds doesnt  have any paperwork available from the sale, which isnt surprising given how 
long ago it took place. This does make the case more difficult  to decide.  In reaching my 
decision I have considered the evidence  that we do have as well as what I consider is most 
likely to have happened.
Mr W says he didnt know he had PPI attached to the loan, therefore it was added without 
his knowledge  or consent.
Although Lloyds doesnt have the actual application form, it has given  us a sample of the 
type of credit  agreement  that would have been  in use at the time. This has yes and no 
boxes that can be ticked to either accept or decline PPI. There is also a separate  column  of 
costs for the PPI policy,  which  is described as optional.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr W has said. But Ive also considered how long ago 
the sale took place and how this may have  affected his memory  of events. From the 
evidence available, I think its more  likely  that Lloyds gave Mr W a choice about buying the 
policy. It seems  to me that he probably decided to take out the policy, knowing that he didnt 
have to.
Lloyds advised  Mr W to buy the PPI. This means  that it needed to ensure that it met his 
needs. From  what I know of Mr Ws circumstances at the time, I think  the policy was suitable 
for him.
Mr W has said that he would have received at least three months sick pay from his 
employer. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially  for 
longer than Mr W would  have received full pay for. Mr W has also said that he had some 
savings. But having  the policy would have meant that he could retain  his savings or used 
them to cover other outgoings  at what would have been a difficult time.
Ref: DRN04453882Lloyds also needed  to give Mr W enough information for him to make an informed choice 
about buying the policy. As Ive already mentioned, the credit agreement had a separate 
column that listed the main costs of the PPI. But it didnt show the interest  that would be 
charged on the insurance premium as a separate  amount. However, the interest  was a small 
amount compared  to the loan amount and the premium amount, so I dont think  that having 
the interest shown separately would have caused  Mr W to change  his mind about  buying the 
policy.
Its possible that Lloyds  could have provided  more information about  the policy, particularly 
in regard to the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr W wasnt  affected by any of these things. 
And as I think he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think  that more 
information would have caused  him to change his mind about buying  it. So he isnt any 
worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong.  So theres nothing that 
Lloyds needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0445388