K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) wont refund disputed transactions  made 
from his current account. 
background
Mr M says that one chip and PIN transaction (totalling £7) and two ATM cash  withdrawals 
(totalling £300  each) were made from his HSBC current  account  on 4 December 2017.  
Mr Ms daily cash withdrawal limit was also increased, on the same day, in branch. 
Mr M says he didnt  make any of the transactions himself and it wasnt him who went  into 
branch to increase his daily withdrawal allowance.  
When Mr M originally  complained to HSBC,  he thought the last genuine transaction  on his 
account took place on 27 November 2017 (£2.60 at a supermarket). But our investigator 
noted there was a cash withdrawal, a number of balance enquiries and some  declined 
attempted transactions after this date but before the disputed  transactions - between 
27 November 2017 and 29 November 2017. Mr M confirmed  these  transactions fitted with 
his usual usage of the card and so were mostly likely to be him. But he said he hadnt had 
his card with him for around  a week before the disputed transactions  took place so any 
activity on the account  after 29 November 2017 couldnt have been  him.   
Mr M discovered his card was missing on 4 December 2017 on his way to work. His salary 
was due to be paid into his current account  that day so he wanted to use his card - but he 
wasnt able to find it. He waited until he left work to check if the card was at home but when 
he couldnt locate  it, he reported the card lost/stolen. 
Mr M has told us he lives in shared accommodation  but no one is allowed in his bedroom. 
This is the only card that is missing and its usually kept in his wallet at home. 
Mr M has memorised his PIN, it isnt written down anywhere and it isnt something  that 
someone could  easily  guess. 
HSBC decided not to refund the disputed transactions. It thought  Mr M had authorised the 
transactions because:
The genuine card was used to make  the transactions.
There was no plausible explanation as to how Mr Ms PIN had been compromised  
he hadnt told it to anyone, it wasnt easily guessable and there were no incorrect PIN 
attempts before the transactions took place.
The last genuine  action on the card which wouldve required Mr M to enter  his PIN 
was approximately  7 days prior to the first disputed transaction   if this was when 
Mr Ms PIN had been compromised, HSBC  believes the fraudster wouldve attempted  
to use the card earlier and would not have waited until 4 December 2017 to utilise the 
account. 
Mr Ms ATM withdrawal limit was increased  to allow  the second ATM withdrawal to 
take place (the account had reached  its £300 daily withdrawal limit after the first 
transaction). This was done in branch and either photo ID or a signature matching 
the one HSBC held on file for Mr M wouldve been  produced  before this could be 
authorised.
Ref: DRN04273992There were  no further attempts to use the card after it was cancelled  indicating that 
whoever was using  the card knew it had been cancelled  by Mr M.
The transactions were  allowed because £700 credited the account on the same  day 
 indicating that whoever was using the card knew a substantial credit  was due to be 
paid into the account.  HSBC didnt  think a fraudster wouldve  known this.  
Mr M didnt  agree with HSBCs decision and he asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt unable  to 
conclude that the transactions had been  made fraudulently and he was persuaded they were  
most likely made and authorised by Mr M. 
Mr M responded to say HSBC shouldve requested CCTV footage  of whomever  made the 
withdrawals and this would have supported his version of events. Mr M asked for the 
investigators answer to be reviewed  by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
our investigator previously set out - and for much  the same  reasons. 
Generally, HSBC can hold Mr M liable  for the disputed  transactions if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Ms genuine card and PIN were  used 
to make the disputed transactions.  But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable HSBC to hold Mr M liable.  So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely  than not that Mr M consented  to the 
withdrawals being  made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to conclude  that Mr M 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
The disputed withdrawals were  made  using Mr Ks genuine  card and PIN, and theres  no 
convincing explanation for how a fraudster could have known Mr Ms PIN. By Mr Ms own 
admission, he hadnt told anyone his PIN, he hadnt written it down and it wasnt a 
number that couldve  been easily guessed. There were  no incorrect PIN attempts on the 
account during  the period in question, and it wouldve been impossible for a fraudster to 
have simply guessed  Mr Ms PIN. 
It is possible that someone was able to observe Mr M entering his PIN on 
29 November 2017 but the next action that took place on the account  was a balance  
enquiry on 2 December 2017. I dont think a fraudster, who had taken the time to 
observe Mr M entering his PIN and stolen his card, wouldve waited approximately  3 
days to try and utilise the card to see if they could  withdraw  funds. I think they wouldve  
tried to use the card straightaway before Mr M became aware it was missing  and 
cancelled his card. 
Its possible that a fraudster mightve  gone into branch to increase Mr Ms daily cash  
withdrawal limit but again I think this scenario is unlikely.  The fraudster wouldve been at 
Ref: DRN04273993significant risk of getting caught during this process had he not been  able to provide the 
necessary security requirements  to authorise the withdrawal increase. And HSBC has 
been able to confirm that whoever went into branch  was able to provide  a signature 
matching Mr Ms or was able to produce  photo ID. I think its unlikely a fraudster  would 
have been able to confidently produce either  or be willing to put themselves at significant 
risk of being  caught. Especially given that whoever  authorised the increase only made 
one further transaction on the account  and didnt attempt any others.  I dont think  a 
fraudster wouldve placed themselves at such a risk to only make  one further transaction.  
There were  no further attempts to use the card after it had been  cancelled by Mr M and 
there is no convincing  explanation for how a fraudster wouldve known the card had been 
cancelled. 
Ive compared  the genuine account  activity on Mr Ms account in October and 
November 2017 to the activity that took place after Mr M has said the card was being  
used by someone else. And Ive looked  to see if there are any differences  in the account  
usage during this time to indicate  that the card was in the hands of someone  other  than 
Mr M. However, the pattern of activity  is generally the same as Mr Ms.
There are four balance enquires on 4 December 2017, more than on any other day 
during the period in question. Mr M is due to have his wages paid into the account on 
this day. And the consistent balance  enquires  indicate to me that someone is waiting for 
this payment to credit  the account. And I cant see how a fraudster wouldve known to 
expect a credit into the account on that particular  day.
In response to our investigators opinion, Mr M said HSBC shouldve  obtained  CCTV footage 
which wouldve shown the actions on the account  were not carried  out by him. Its possible  
that CCTV might have identified that someone  other than Mr M made the withdrawals. But 
Mr M didnt  have to make  the withdrawals personally in order  to be liable  for them  under the 
relevant rules. He can still be held responsible  for them if he authorised  the use of his card. 
So even if CCTV had been available, looking at all of the evidence in this particular case,  I 
dont think I could be as sure as I would need to be to say that Mr M wasnt  involved.
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr M authorised the disputed 
withdrawals. It follows  that HSBC is entitled  to hold him liable for them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN04273994
Ref: DRN0427399