K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained NewDay Limited, trading  as Aqua, wont refund £189.99 he paid to a 
company for IT services on his Aqua credit  card.
background
In June 2017 Mr B received a cold call from an IT company. They  told him his computer was 
infected by viruses but they could sort this out for him. Mr B wasnt  too keen on doing  this 
but ended  up paying them £189.99  under pressure.  Anti-virus  software  was fitted  to his 
computer after he gave  them remote access.
Mr B later got a call from someone  suggesting  hed been scammed  and he should  contact 
his credit card company. Mr B complained to Aqua about what had happened. He was also 
concerned hed been pressurised to buy something he didnt need.  Hed since  been told by 
his own IT security company that he had all the security and anti-virus  protection  he needed.
Aqua reviewed Mr Bs complaint. They got a copy of an invoice and service details from the 
company whose services  Mr B had bought. As Aqua could see Mr B had authorised the 
transaction and received the service, they didnt think  they could uphold  his complaint.
Mr B brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.  Our adjudicator  didnt think  Aqua had 
done anything  wrong so she told Mr B she couldnt  uphold his complaint.
Mr B remained unhappy  and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint.  Before I was 
able to consider  this a further investigator reviewed the complaint.
He felt it was clear Mr B had not understood what he was buying  when  he bought the 
services. After discussion with Aqua, they agreed to refund £189.99.  They explained Mr Bs 
account was severely  in arrears as no payments had been made for more than a year.  
Theyd now sold the debt on to a debt recovery company.
We tried to contact Mr B to let him know about this offer. Hed formerly  had a representative 
on the account but this was no longer the case. We were unable  to contact Mr B.
I now have everything I need to complete  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Aquas offer 
overall is fair. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the transactions were distance-related. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.  Although there 
are other circumstances that we take into account.
Ref: DRN01406302Ive considered the evidence here.  Theres no doubt Mr B made this transaction  himself.  He 
gave over his card details  and then allowed the IT service  company access  to his computer. 
I also think its clear  Mr B got a service  from this company.
However I dont think Mr B knew what he was buying nor why. Ive seen nothing to doubt his 
feeling he was pressurised to buy the anti-virus service. I can also see why, having spoken 
to his own IT security company, Mr B felt hed been scammed.
So Im pleased Aqua agreed to refund the £189.99 to Mr Bs credit  card account. I would 
have asked them to do this too.
I appreciate this wont solve the problems Mr B is having with his account.  I believe he is 
discussing with the company  that now owns the credit card debt about  how he can make 
arrangements to pay whats owed. But £189.99 will be removed  from that debt.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  NewDay  Limited, trading as Aqua, 
to make sure £189.99 is removed from Mr Bs credit card debt now owned by a third party.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0140630