K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2009. Mr K says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Capital One had to make  it clear to Mr K that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr K says he never knowingly took out PPI and that the call in which  he was sold PPI 
was to activate a card, rather than to purchase  PPI.
Capital One hasnt been able to send us a recording of the call in which Mr K was sold the 
PPI. But it has sent us a copy  of the call script  it says was in use for activation calls at the 
time. And, after the card has been  activated,  this script instructs  the advisor to explain the 
PPI policy  and to ask the consumer if they want it.
Based on what I understand about  Capital  Ones sales practices at the time, I think  its likely 
that the call with Mr K largely followed this script. And that the advisor wouldnt have added 
the PPI to Mr Ks account if Mr K hadnt  indicated that he was ok with this. So I think its 
likely that Capital One did make it clear  to Mr K that he had a choice about  this PPI. And that 
Mr K chose to take it.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr K got the information he needed to decide  if the PPI 
was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like Mr K was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. And the 
policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than the sick pay hes told us he wouldve 
been entitled to. So it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.
Mr K has said he wouldve been  able to find another job if hed lost his own job, and that his 
family couldve helped  him with his repayments. But peoples circumstances can change, so 
his family  might not have been able to help him when he needed  it. The PPI wouldve meant 
he didnt need  to rely on his family  if he wasnt earning and hadnt  been able to find another  
job for some time. So I still think  he couldve found the protection  it offered appealing, and I 
dont think better information  about  it would have put him off taking it out.
Mr K has also said his employment was stable, and that hes still in the same job now.  But 
the nature  of insurance means that cover  is provided for risks that may not occur. The policy 
could have provided a benefit  to Mr K if he had lost his job, or been unable to work due to 
accident or sickness. So I dont think this means the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN07380572Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr K, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr K any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0738057