K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about  delays  by Santander  UK Plc while  processing a Faster 
Payment. 
background
On 17 May 2019 Mr R tried to make a Faster  Payment  of £11,000. He wanted to pay funds 
into an investment Mrs R had with another business.  But the payment was blocked  and their 
online banking was suspended because the payment was flagged by Santanders security 
systems. 
Santander says it tried to contact Mr R but wasnt able to get through. Mr R called Santander  
and was transferred  to the security department. Mr R provided information  about the transfer  
and confirmed it was genuine. He was told the back office team had been emailed and 
would either  release the payment or contact him again if they needed anything further. He 
was asked to check  his online account after 19:00  that day to see whether the payment had 
been released and his account access reinstated.
Mr R called Santander on two more occasions. On the second occasion he was transferred 
to the security team but had a long wait before  he was able to discuss the transfer.  The 
security team said the payment  was still waiting to be processed  and confirmed someone  
would be in touch  if more information  was needed.  Mr R asked whether he could  visit his 
branch with identification to help speed the process up and was told he could. 
On 18 May 2019 Mr R visited a branch with identification and it removed the block  on his 
account and arranged for the payment to be released. Mr R says he spent an unreasonable 
amount of time both on the phone and in branch dealing with the matter. He also feels  
Santanders delay  meant Mrs R lost out on interest.  Mr R complained but Santander said the 
transfer had been held because of genuine  fraud concerns and released within the agreed 
timescales for Faster  Payments. It didnt agree to pay any compensation to Mr and Mrs R. 
Mr R referred  the complaint to our service  and an investigator looked at it. She said the 
payment was legitimately  held and released  within 24 hours. She didnt ask Santander to 
compensate Mr and Mrs R and said the complaint had been dealt with fairly.  As Mr R didnt 
agree the complaints been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr R is frustrated by what happened  on 17 May 2019 and in the days  
that followed. Ive listened  to his calls with Santander and can see he spent a lot of time 
discussing the payment.  But I need  to be fair to both parties. Whilst I can see the issue did 
delay the payment over night and Mr R made several calls, I have to balance  that against 
Santanders obligation to protect  its customers.  
Ref: DRN02630952Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Rs account  terms. I can see that Santander can stop a payment 
to get additional information if it has any concerns  over fraud.  I understand Mr R had already 
made a larger  transfer so he was surprised when the £11,000 payment was stopped. But 
Santander had legitimate  concerns over the transaction so I think  it was right for its security 
team to stop it and ask for more information.  
Mr R says he doesnt think  Santander tried to call him on 17 May 2019  as its claimed. The 
systems evidence Ive seen shows that it tried calling twice  at 15:04, again  at 15:14 and a 
fourth time at 15:25. But the number  it called was engaged each time. Santander called a 
short time later and left a message and Mr R went on to get in touch. Santanders  records 
show it tried to call Mr R again  at 17:48 and 20:07 but there  was no answer and it didnt 
leave a message.  I appreciate Mr R says these calls werent made.  But Im satisfied 
Santander tried to get in touch to discuss the payment as claimed.  
Mr R was able to speak  with the security  team when he called  back on 17 May 2019. Ive 
listened to the call and Santanders call handler  took information  from Mr R and said it would 
be forwarded to the back office team to process the payment. Mr R was asked  to check  his 
online banking at around 19:00  to see whether  the payment had been released. The call 
handler said the payment would be processed as quickly as possible  but couldnt  confirm 
when and said it was in a queue to be processed. 
I note Mr R called back twice more  on 17 May 2019 and at one stage was on hold for around 
half an hour before he was able to speak with the security team. But when he got through  he 
was given the same information as provided during  the previous call  that the payment was 
in a queue  waiting to be processed. During this call Mr R was advised he could visit his 
branch the following day in order to provide identification  if the payment hadnt  been 
released. Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but I dont think it would be fair to award compensation 
for delays  he experienced trying to speak  with the security team  again. 
Mr R visited his branch on 18 May 2019 and provided identification. Hes told us it took 
around an hour for the branch to get his account access back and arrange for the payment 
to be released. I appreciate that wasnt convenient  but, as Ive said above, Im satisfied 
Santander had a legitimate reason to hold the Faster  Payment  so the request for additional 
information was reasonable.  In addition, whilst I appreciate Mr R remained concerned,  I 
have no reason to doubt Santander would have  processed his payment on 18 May 2019 as 
promised the previous  day. 
Santanders systems evidence shows the payment was released in less than 24 hours from 
the time Mr R first tried to send it. Whilst thats  not as quick as most Faster Payments, its 
within the normal timescales so I dont think  it would be fair to tell Santander  to compensate  
Mr and Mrs R for the delay in the payment reaching  the other business. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs R but Im satisfied  Santander  acted reasonably by 
blocking the Faster  Payment no 17 May 2019  and restricting their account access. I think 
Santander dealt  with their complaint fairly so Im not telling it to take any further action. 
Ref: DRN02630953my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 August 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0263095