K821x#15The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Loans.co.uk Ltd mis-sold  them payment  protection  insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs W were sold a single premium  PPI policy when they took out a personal loan 
with Loans.co.uk  in 2006. The cost of the policy was added to their loan and they paid 
interest on it. The policy would have covered Mr and Mrs Ws loan repayments for up to five 
years if they made a successful accident  or sickness claim. 
Loans.co.uk has disputed  that it sold the policy to Mr and Mrs W. Its said that it wasnt the 
broker for the loan and that both the loan, and the PPI were  sold by a third party. And 
because of that it cant provide any information  such as the sales process or any 
documents from the time.  One of our ombudsmen  issued a decision  on Loans.co.uks 
liability in August 2020 saying that it was responsible for the sale. 
The adjudicator who looked at the merits of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint upheld  it. They  didnt 
think Loans.co.uk had provided evidence to show it made the costs clear  to Mr and Mrs W. 
Loans.co.uk disagreed  again stating it hadnt brokered the loan or sold the PPI. 
So, Mr and Mrs Ws complaint has come  to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I have noted Loans.co.uks comments that it didnt sell the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. But 
as this matter has already  been subject to a decision where  the outcome was that 
Loans.co.uk was responsible, I wont  be making  any further comments  about  it. In my 
decision, I have  only looked at the merits of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
From what  Ive seen, I think its more likely Loans.co.uk recommended the PPI to                 
Mr and Mrs W. So, it needed to make sure it was right for them in their particular 
circumstances. It also needed to give Mr and Mrs W information about the policy that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. I have no evidence  that Loans.co.uk did this.
I can see the cost of the single premium for the policy was set out in the application form for 
the loan that was signed by Mr and Mrs W. But theres nothing  in this document  to show    
Mr and Mrs W how much interest  theyd  be charged on the premium  over the life of the loan. 
Nor have  I seen anything  that shows Mr and Mrs W what the total cost of the PPI, including 
the interest,  would be. 
Finally, I havent seen anything that shows Mr and Mrs W how much  of their monthly loan 
repayment would relate to the PPI costs   and this is something  I think it would have been 
good practice for Loans.co.uk to give them. 
Ref: DRN09773572This missing information about the cost of Mr and Mrs Ws policy represented quite  a lot of 
money. I think  it would  have mattered to Mr and Mrs W when it came to them  making an 
informed decision about whether they wanted  the cover. And I dont think  theyd have  
thought the PPI was good value for money if Loans.co.uk had given them  better cost 
information than it did. 
It follows I think Mr and Mrs W have  lost out because of what Loans.co.uk has done  wrong  
and so it should put things  right.
Putting things  right
Mr and Mrs W borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger  than it shouldve  
been, and they paid more  than they shouldve  each month. So, Mr and Mrs W need to get 
back the extra theyve  paid. 
So, Loans.co.uk should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs W the difference between what they paid each month on 
the loan and what they would have paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs W paid each month from when they 
paid it until they get it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If a successful claim was made  under the PPI policy, Loans.co.uk can take off what Mr and 
Mrs W got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Loans.co.uk to take off tax from this interest. Loans.co.uk must  give                
Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and direct  Loans.co.uk  Ltd to 
put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2021.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0977357