K820x#14complaint
Mrs M brings a complaint regarding administration of a life assurance policy  held by her late 
husband, Mr M. She says that Scottish  Friendly Assurance Society Limited failed to tell her 
that in 2015 it had taken  over ownership  of the policy. 
A claim  payment was issued in June 2018. Mrs M also complains that Scottish  Friendly 
should have written to her in 2015 noting it had hold of the funds. Further,  she says it ought  
to have paid her interest on the payment from 2015,  especially since it made no effort  to 
settle the claim with her.  
background
Mrs Ms husband sadly passed away in March 2013.  At the time of his death,  he held three 
life assurance policies with Marine and General Mutual Life Assurance Society. 
Two claim  payments were made  by Marine and General to Mrs M in August 2013.  Those  
policies were held by Mr and Mrs M jointly. However, it could not pay out on the third policy 
because a grant of probate  was required. That policy was held in the name of the late Mr M 
only.   
On 26 April 2013, Marine and General  wrote  to Mrs M to explain it needed a copy of Mr Ms 
death certificate. Mrs M was able to return that in early 2014. Marine  and General confirmed 
receipt on 26 February 2014  and it asked her to supply a grant of representation.  
Probate was completed  and issued to Mrs M and her daughters  on 1 July 2014.   
Marine and General wrote out to Mrs M periodically  to enquire about the grant of 
representation, as it had heard nothing further.  It issued letters dated 30 May 2014, 2 
September 2014, 5 December 2014 and 23 March 2015.  
Marine and General transferred all of its business  to Scottish Friendly  on 1 June 2015, so no 
further reminders were  sent after this date.    
On 12 June 2018, Mrs M supplied the grant  of probate to Scottish Friendly.  It paid the 
policys sum assured  of £153,000 to Mrs M on 28 June 2018.  
Mrs M complained. Scottish  Friendly  rejected the complaint. It said it wrote to policyholders 
when it took over the business. That wouldnt have included Mrs M as the policy was never 
in her name. If Mrs M had sent a grant of probate to Marine and General it would have been 
redirected to Scottish  Friendly in any event. 
It also noted how since 2013 Marine and General had made clear to Mrs M what information 
it needed from her. It therefore did not agree that it had adversely  affected Mrs Ms claim 
since the next required actions were for Mrs M to provide a grant  of representation or 
probate.
However, as part of reviewing the complaint, Scottish Friendly discovered that it had paid the 
claim on 28 June 2018. It said it had a policy of paying a claim within four days  of receipt of 
the required evidence.  Because  of this, it paid Mrs M £18.38   that being  8% interest from 
18 June 2018,  the latest day it ought to have settled the claim. In addition,  it paid Mrs M 
£100 as compensation for any inconvenience  it had caused her.  
Ref: DRN01774302An adjudicator from this service looked into the complaint  but he did not think  it should  
succeed. Though he was sympathetic to Mrs Ms position, he felt the responsibility  to supply 
the evidence needed to pay the claim was Mrs Ms. Scottish Friendly  had not done anything  
wrong because  at no time did its actions affect  Mrs Ms ability  to continue with the necessary 
paperwork to facilitate  the claim payment.  
Mrs M didnt  agree. She said probate wasnt finalised  until the end of 2014. She also 
reiterated how it was unfair of a business to hold on to money that belonged  to someone 
else, without paying interest on that sum.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further Id like to pass my condolences to Mrs M and her daughters. I realise  
that the circumstances  of Mr Ms death  have been  particularly difficult for them, and that the 
many delays they have  experienced have  been out of their control. 
Its my role to decide if I think  Scottish Friendly has been unfair or unreasonable  in some 
way. And if it has done so, what ought to be done to put matters  right.  Having looked at all of 
the evidence,  I agree with the outcome reached  by our adjudicator.  
Scottish Friendly took ownership of the policy from 1 June 2015. It isnt responsible  for the 
actions of Marine and General prior to that date. 
Mrs M did receive a letter dated 23 March  2015 which was after she says probate was 
finalised. That letter  was similar to the previous five reminder letters.  It noted  how I refer to 
previous correspondence and would  ask if you are now in a position to progress the claim. 
At the time the policy transferred, it was clear  that the claim could  not carry on any further 
without Mrs M providing the necessary evidence. It is reasonable for Marine  and General 
(and thereafter Scottish Friendly) to obtain  proof  of representation or probate such  that it can 
be satisfied it is making  the payment to the correct person(s).  
I do appreciate Mr Ms point that, as good practice,  it would be sensible for Scottish Friendly  
to have written out regarding the late Mr Ms policy. If it acquired the policy  details from 
Marine and General, it would have known  the policyholder had sadly  passed away and it 
needed outstanding evidence regarding a grant  of representation (because  in 2015, it would 
not have been aware  Mrs M and her daughters  had been issued a grant of probate).   
However, I think that even  if it had done so, the outcome would be the same. Mrs M still had 
to supply the evidence required to release the policys sum assured. She had been reminded 
six times of that requirement in letters sent to her correct address. Though  Scottish  Friendly 
didnt continue to write  out, Mrs M still knew (or ought to have known) that to progress the 
claim, she needed to supply  evidence. 
I realise there are mitigating reasons as to why Mrs M couldnt  provide it any sooner, but she 
did not do so until June 2018. That is not the fault of Scottish Friendly. It had suitable 
processes in place  to ensure any contact  to Marine and General would be appropriately 
Ref: DRN01774303redirected. Mrs M had received six reminders,  at least two of which were sent after the date 
probate was granted.   
I realise Mrs M feels strongly that because the policy  proceeds were not paid for several 
years it means Scottish Friendly (and previously Marine  and General) have had the benefit 
of earning interest  on that sum. In cases where  we feel a business has behaved unfairly 
such as unreasonably disputing a claim) we have the power to award interest  dating  from 
when a claim ought to have been settled. 
But, that doesnt apply here. Scottish Friendly could  not have settled the claim any sooner 
than 18 June 2018. It didnt have the evidence to pay the claim before then, and accordingly 
interest should not run from a point any earlier than that. Because the claim was actually 
paid ten days  later, Scottish Friendly has given Mrs M 8% interest between those two dates 
 that is correct. It has also rightly awarded her some compensation for upset she may have 
been caused. 
As it stands, the compensation Scottish  Friendly has paid to Mrs M of £100 is within  the sort 
of range of awards we would make  for an administrative failing. And in any event I would not 
be able to award compensation to Mrs M directly for any upset caused, because  she is not 
an eligible complainant in her right. 
The policy was owned by Mr M and therefore,  his estate after he passed away.  Mrs M brings 
the complaint  here as one of the representatives  of the estate. In instances of making  award 
for any distress, we can only make such payments to eligible complainants to whom the 
distress has been caused. And we cannot  award  a distress payment to an estate.  
my final decision
I know Mrs M will be disappointed by this outcome, but I must be fair to both parties in a 
complaint. And I dont  think Scottish Friendly has behaved unfairly  or unreasonably beyond 
the matters which it has already  compensated her appropriately for. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M on behalf of 
the estate of the late Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2019.  
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0177430