K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) refusing to
cover replacement of part a pathway  at their home. They want Lloyds to cover replacement  
of the entire tarmac  surface to ensure  a smooth  surface.
background
I set out the background  to this matter, and my provisional view, in a provisional decision 
issued in November  2019. A copy of that decision  is attached.
In that decision  I set out why I thought that Lloyds should pay to Mr and Mrs M:
£25801.60 for replacement of the driveway, including a payment for traffic measures, 
plus interest;
£6650.00 to reflect the cost of replacing the tarmac to the side pathway,  plus interest; 
£714 to reimburse  the cost of the surveyors report, plus interest; and 
£150.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs M accepted that provisional  view. 
Lloyds did not accept the provisional view and indicated that I had wrongly understood that 
Lloyds had elected to settle the claim by cash, rather  than undertake the work itself. Lloyds 
argued that it wanted to undertake the work itself and was satisfied it could do so without a 
lip being created between the replaced driveway  and the existing side path. 
On this basis, I reconsidered my provisional view and offered Lloyds the option to undertake 
the work  on the driveway itself, on the basis that, by doing so, it agreed that if any lip 
developed between the surfaces then it would then replace both the driveway and path at 
that time.  
Lloyds indicated that it wished to do this. 
Mr and Mrs M indicated  that they were  not happy for Lloyds to undertake  the work, because  
they had already received  a settlement payment  for the driveway and had engaged a 
contractor independently. They explained that they would incur  a liability to the contractor if 
they did not proceed with their contractor.  
It then became clear  that Lloyds had already made a settlement payment to Mr and Mrs M, 
in April 2019. This was described at the time as a First Interim Payment, at which time the 
cost of the side path remained in dispute.  
The First Interim  Payment Report  detailed  that the settlement sum included £17,950 to pay 
for the driveway,  payments for the render plinth, traffic control  and administration,  and 
reimbursement of the surveyors  fee of £714.00.  The total payment, taking into account  the 
excess, was £24,663.00
Mr and Mrs M have  provided evidence of the payments they received from Lloyds in 
April 2019. These were a payment for £25,450.00, followed  by a payment of £150 which 
reflected compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN01284622As Mr and Mrs M have entered into an agreement with a contractor, based on Lloyds having 
settled their claim for the driveway, it is no longer open to Mr and Mrs M to repay the 
settlement, or for Lloyds  to undertake  the work itself. 
As a result, I indicated to the parties  that I would return to my provisional position, namely 
that the evidence available, including  the surveyors report provided by Mr and Mrs M, 
weighs in favour of it being necessary to replace both the driveway  and the side path at the 
same time, in order to avoid a lip developing.  
Mr and Mrs M have  responded, accepting  that decision. 
Lloyds has not responded. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not seen evidence or arguments  which alter my provisional view,  as supplemented by 
the correspondence described  above.  
I therefore adopt my provisional decision reasoning, as supplemented by my 
correspondence with the parties. 
As payments have  already  been  made to Mr and Mrs M for the driveway cost (including  a 
sum for traffic management), reimbursement of the cost of the surveyors report, and 
compensation for distress and inconvenience,  these no longer need to be part of the award. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and given in my provisional decision,  I direct Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited to:
pay to Mr and Mrs M £6650.00 to reflect the cost of replacing  the tarmac  to the side 
of their property. Simple interest* should  be added to this sum at a rate of 8% p/a 
from the date of loss up until the date of settlement.   
*If Lloyds Bank General  Insurance Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken  off. It should
also give Mr and Mrs M a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0128462