K820x#14complaint
Mrs O says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, have  taken  responsibility  for the sale.  
To keep  things simple,  Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other  business.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 20 March  2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this PPI policy had not been mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
20 April 2019. But neither Mrs O nor FICL have sent me anything  new to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have  sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having  reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think this particular  PPI policy  
was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Os 
complaint about  Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02387212COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs O says she was mis-sold a payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy. Financial  Insurance 
Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, have taken  responsibility for the sale.  To keep things simple,  
Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
Mrs O bought the policy  in 2003 at the same time as taking out a store  card.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Os store card application briefly  explained  what PPI was for and what it cost. There was a place 
she could sign if she wanted  to buy it, or which could be left blank if she didnt  want it. Mrs O signed  
specifically for PPI, separately to signing  for the application as a whole.  So I think that Mrs O was 
made aware she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  even 
if, understandably, she no longer remembers doing so after so long.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs O, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. They did 
have to give Mrs O enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Mrs O about PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  The 
question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed her mind. Here,  Mrs O 
chose to take out the policy - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. From what shes told us, 
she only had limited  savings,  and didnt  have any other cover in case  she was off sick or lost her job. 
So the policy  couldve really  been  useful for her in case something went wrong. And if her 
circumstances changed,  Mrs O could cancel  the PPI at any time without  a penalty.
As our adjudicator  pointed out, Mrs O did have a medical  condition which  might not have been 
covered. FICL  questioned how the condition mightve affected her ability  to work. Mrs O explained 
that her condition was well-managed, only affected her in specific circumstances, didnt affect her 
ability to work,  and didnt ever cause  her to take time off so far as she remembered. And by the time 
of the sale, shed  had this condition  for many years,  so she wouldve had a good idea of how it 
affected her. Its worth bearing mind  that the PPI was there  to cover  extended time off work. But from 
what Mrs O has told us, it doesnt sound like she wouldve considered her condition to be likely  to 
ever cause her to claim. She could  have claimed  for time off for other conditions, and she wasnt 
affected by any of the policys other exclusions  or limitations. So I still think the policy couldve  been 
useful for Mrs O in her circumstances.  And so I dont think  that better  information was likely to have 
put her off taking out the policy.
Ref: DRN02387213my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Please could  Mrs O and FICL  send  me any more  information  or comments  to look at by 
20 April 2019. After  that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0238721