K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  the service provided  by HCL Insurance  BPO Services  Limited  
(HCL) when he tried to arrange  a monthly  payment from his pension fund.
background
Mr L requested a monthly drawdown from his pension fund. HCL didnt act on his request 
with the result that the payments didnt start when he wanted  them  to. When  Mr L chased 
HCL about the missed payment, he was told that HCL would need to see a copy  of Mr Ls 
bank statement before the payments could  start.  This delayed the payments further; 
altogether two payments were missed.  Mr L complained to HCL about the delay in setting up 
the payments  and that he wasnt told a bank  statement would be needed.
HCL upheld  the complaint and offered £100  compensation  for the trouble  and upset suffered 
by Mr L. However, HCLs letter contained  an incorrect date.  Mr L complained again; HCL 
apologised for this mistake and enclosed a cheque for the £100 compensation that had 
previously been  offered.  Mr L remained unhappy and complained to us. He wants a full 
explanation about the need for a bank statement and more compensation for HCLs failure to 
make the payments.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ls complaint.  He concluded that HCL was responsible for 
the first missed payment. But he didnt think HCL was responsible for delays after this. He 
thought that HCLs request to see a bank  statement  helps to ensure account security  and 
didnt think it was unreasonable  for HCL to ask for one. He felt that £100 compensation was 
reasonable for the trouble and upset Mr L had suffered.
Mr L wasnt happy with this. He doesnt think HCL needed to see a bank statement and, by 
continuing to insist on it, HCL was responsible for the second missing  payment. Mr L asked 
for an ombudsman to review the case.  It has now come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were two missed payments which caused  Mr L inconvenience.  The first missed 
payment in November  2018 was caused  by HCL not acting  on Mr Ls request. HCL has 
agreed that it didnt  deal with his request correctly. The second  missed payment was caused 
by HCL not receiving  a copy of a bank statement for the account, although one was 
requested two weeks before payment was due. Had a bank statement been provided, Im 
satisfied the second payment would have been made on time. I accept that the two missed 
payments have caused Mr L some inconvenience. I conclude that HCL is responsible for the 
first missed  payment, but not the second.  
Ive also considered the impact of the delayed payments. Mr L says that he had taken out 
some loans. These loans  were to be repaid by the money that was to have come  from his 
pension fund. He says hes had to take money from an ISA to cover  the two missing 
payments. I can see that Mr L has had the inconvenience of having to juggle his finances. 
But, as I said earlier, I dont think HCL is responsible for all the delays experienced by Mr L. 
And HCL has accepted that it made  a mistake  at the start of the process and has paid £100  
compensation. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN09737232The remaining  area of disagreement is whether HCL needed  a bank statement to start the 
payments to Mr Ls account.  This is the same account Mr L originally used to pay into his 
pension fund. He had also received a payment into this account  from the fund in 2015. As 
HCL already had the account details, Mr L doesnt  think a bank statement is necessary. 
The last payment made to Mr Ls account  was in 2015. HCL says that it needs to see a bank 
statement when it hasnt  made a payment to an account for more  than a year.  I think  its 
reasonable for HCL to have a procedure that requires confirmation of account details when 
making payments  to accounts that havent  been  paid into for more  than a year.  In terms of 
Mr Ls complaint, I can see why HCL would want to see a bank statement to provide this 
confirmation; I think this is reasonable. So I dont think HCL has done anything wrong in 
asking Mr L to send  a bank statement.
Whilst I appreciate Mr L will be disappointed  by the outcome,  for the reasons Ive set out 
above I wont be asking  HCL to do any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Geoff Pearson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0973723