K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc is asking him for personal information over the 
telephone.
background
Mr M has an account with HSBC. Earlier this year HSBC asked Mr M for some  personal 
information. It explained that this was to comply  with its regulatory requirements and 
safeguarding procedures. Mr M completed the form and sent it to HSBC. HSBC  then 
telephoned Mr M to confirm some details.  As Mr M couldnt verify that he was talking to 
HSBC, he didnt provide  the answers.
Mr M complained because he didnt expect to receive phone calls,  especially asking him for 
sensitive information.  HSBC explained  that it needed to confirm  information with him and the 
only team  that can do that are the safeguarding team who can be contacted  on the 
telephone. It asked Mr M to call a specific number and then arrange a call back from the 
safeguarding team  at a specific date and time.
Mr M felt it was unacceptable for HSBC to ask for this information  over the telephone. He 
said he would only provide information in branch  or by post. Our investigator considered the 
complaint and felt HSBC  had acted reasonably. He explained that the information HSBC 
was asking for was for regulatory  and safeguarding  purposes. He also explained  that the 
only way to speak  to the safeguarding team was over the telephone.  And that HSBC has 
said Mr M can go into his branch to ask them to make that appointment. So he didnt think it 
had done anything wrong.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
HSBC needs to keep up to date information about its customers  this is for safeguarding 
purposes to protect  its customers. HSBC has explained to Mr M that by doing so, its 
complying with its regulatory requirements.  Its also explained to Mr M that it does  need  to 
confirm some details with him and this isnt unreasonable.
I appreciate that Mr M doesnt want to discuss his personal information with someone over 
the phone, particularly because hes unable to verify who he is talking to. But HSBC has 
explained that the information can only be taken by a member of its safeguarding  team   this 
team is contactable on the phone. To enable Mr M to verify who he is talking to HSBC has 
asked him to call a specific number to make an appointment for a call back. This call back  
could be at a specific time and date so Mr M will know its HSBC. I think this is reasonable.
Mr M has said he will give the information  in branch   but HSBC has explained there  wont  
be anyone there who can confirm the safeguarding details with him in branch. But he could 
ask for the branch  to call the safeguarding team   Mr M may wish to try this but it isnt 
guaranteed that someone will be available. Overall I dont think  HSBC has done anything 
wrong. Whilst I understand  Mr Ms hesitance at answering personal questions  over the 
telephone, I think  HSBC has given him the option  of arranging a specific time and date to 
enable him to know it is the safeguarding  team contacting him. As HSBC needs  this 
Ref: DRN04323772information to comply with its safeguarding process, and the team  are only available over the 
telephone, I dont think HSBC has done  anything wrong. So I dont uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0432377