K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy about the way Virgin Money plc (Virgin) has handled his complaint 
concerning the recovery of refunds  he was owed from a third party.
background
In August  2017,  Mr H made a booking for the rental  of a motor  home  with a hire company, 
who I will refer to as C. 
Mr H was charged three additional  duplicate payments of £1,265.  C agreed to refund the 
three payments to Mr H. However, the refunds  were  not showing on Mr Hs account so he 
contacted Virgin.  Virgin asked Mr H to return to C to ask them to complete a trace  of the 
refunds. Mr H was provided  some  information from C but Virgin  said it wasnt enough so 
Mr H instructed solicitors to help him recover the money.
In December 2017, Virgin submitted a chargeback request and provisionally refunded the 
three transactions. Satisfied  with the refunds, Mr H told his solicitors the matter had been 
resolved. However  one transaction was re-debited in January 2018.  In April 2018, Virgin 
submitted a second chargeback. C defended the request and said the chargeback had been 
raised out of time and the refunds had already been issued. 
 
Mr H complained to Virgin  because only two out of the three transactions  had been  
refunded. He said he had incurred costs  and the situation was causing  him stress. Virgin 
accepted they initially  raised  the incorrect query and they recognised there were times where 
progress hadnt  been made. They offered £175 compensation for this - which Mr H 
accepted.  As the matter remained unresolved, Virgin also told Mr H that they intend to start 
an application under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA)  in order to recover  
the one remaining duplicate payment of £1,265.
Unhappy with their response, Mr H brought the complaint  to our service. The investigator 
upheld the complaint as she felt Virgin hadnt  raised the chargeback  correctly  and it was 
submitted too late. She said Virgin should  refund the three transactions to Mr H and increase 
the compensation to £250.
In response, Mr H said Virgin should also reimburse him for the associated  fees which 
included solicitor fees, interest and for a balance transfer. 
Virgin Money disagreed  with the investigator and said:
-They asked Mr H to get from C the account details the refunds were sent to and ask 
them to start the process of recalling the payment;
-C is responsible for finding out where  the refunds have been sent and C hadnt 
attempted to contact  their bank to get the payment details;
-They raised a section. 75 CCA request  in order to resolve  the issue;  and 
-They should not be held responsible for the actions of C or their bank in losing  the 
refunds
Ref: DRN02717242The matter  was then referred to me for a decision. In November 2019,  I contacted  Virgin to 
let them  know my provisional decision. I said:
I currently  intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint and I wanted to explain the reasons and 
redress to you. 
I say this because  I am not satisfied youve done what you needed to do following Mr H 
raising his disputed transaction query with you in September  2017.  Had you done so, I 
believe a fully successful  chargeback application wouldve been made at that time (or, in the 
alternative a section 75 application) and Mr H wouldve received refunds for all three  
duplicate transactions  of £1,265 (a total of £3,795). I believe this wouldve reasonably been 
completed around the end of 2017.  The actions of Virgin since  September  2017 have meant 
the complaint  has remained  unresolved for a significant amount of time  2 years  and it is 
still unresolved with many outstanding pieces of information. 
As Ive explained, I believe  you couldve stepped in earlier  to assist Mr H in trying  to recover 
the money and raise  the chargeback request. This has led to Mr H instructing solicitors  to try 
to recover the money. By your own admission, you incorrectly  raised the query as a missing  
payment which  caused a delay. There were also significant delays to raising the second  
chargeback request.
Despite our repeated  requests for more information  including what happened at the first 
chargeback application, why the matter was not moved to arbitration and the current  
progress of the s.75 application, we havent heard from you. 
response to my provisional  decision
Virgin said the matter  was initially treated as a missing payment query but due to the lack of 
information it was closed in December 2017. They said they subsequently raised a dispute in 
December 2017  which was considered out of time by C. They also said they considered  a 
section 75 claim but they believed  C did not breach any conditions.  Virgin  said they dont 
have any documentation  concerning the chargeback being declined however they said they 
explained the situation with Mr H during a telephone call.
Ive been in contact with Mr H and he has confirmed  he accepts my provisional findings. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In situations where what  has happened is 
in dispute or unclear, I have to decide  what I think is more likely to have happened.   Having 
done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I think its important to mention that theres no dispute  that Mr H is owed the refund of 
the three duplicate transactions  or that he has been  paid two of these duplicates. So I must 
decide whether  Virgin  has acted fairly and reasonably to assist  Mr H in recovering the 
outstanding refund of £1,265 from C. 
In September  2017, Mr H approached Virgin to try to resolve the issue  and I believe it was 
reasonable for him to do so. By Virgins own admission they raised the query as a missing  
payment, rather than a disputed transaction. This error wasnt  realised  until December 2017 
meaning a significant delay  was caused  in raising  the chargeback request. Virgin  
Ref: DRN02717243provisionally refunded  the three  transactions  pending  the chargeback request. Satisfied the 
money had been  recovered, Mr H told his solicitor the matter had been resolved. 
Virgins records show three  chargebacks were  submitted in December 2017.  On a number  
of occasions,  weve  asked them for more  information about  this request, but they have  failed 
to send it to us. In the absence of further  information, their records show  three chargeback  
requests were submitted. However there  is an entry in January 2018  which  says debited  
TXN as duplicate CB submitted. This suggests  to me that its more likely Virgin believed a 
duplicate chargeback was requested so they re-debited  one transaction. However, as Ive 
mentioned above,  it was always clear  from the outset the dispute  query  concerned three 
duplicates transactions.  The refund of them wasnt in dispute  by C so its unclear as to why 
Virgin believed one chargeback was a duplicate. 
Mr H said he believed all three transactions were  successfully  refunded  so he transferred his 
account balance  to another credit provider  in April 2018.  He said Virgin never made  him 
aware that one transaction was re-debited. On realising what  had happened, Mr H said he 
transferred the sum of this transaction back to his Virgin account.
In April 2018, Virgin submitted a chargeback  request for a second time. C defended  the 
application on the basis that the request had been  made out of time and they had already 
issued the three refunds. According  to the scheme  rules in this matter, a chargeback must 
be raised within 120 days from the transaction settlement  date. If the request is not received 
within this time frame the other party has the right to defend the chargeback   which  is what  
C has raised.
Overall Im not satisfied  Virgin did what they needed to do when Mr H first contacted them  in 
September 2017. Had they done so, I believe Mr H wouldve successfully recovered the 
three duplicate payments  of £1,265 (a total of £3,795) towards the end of 2017. 
Further, I dont believe its fair for Virgin to say Mr H hasnt  tried to get the information they 
required from C. Im satisfied Mr H did all he could to recover the funds from C himself, 
including instructing solicitors. I cant see what else he couldve done.
On this basis, I believe Virgin should refund the outstanding transaction  of £1,265  to Mr H 
along with any associated interest.  If they choose to do so, Virgin can try to recover the cost 
directly with C and/or their bank but this is a matter for them.
I wont be asking Virgin to pay Mr Ss balance transfer fee. Although I havent seen any 
evidence that Virgin made Mr H aware  of the re-debit, I believe it wouldve been reasonable 
for Mr H to have checked his account and his statements before proceeding to transfer  the 
balance. I also wont be asking Virgin to cover the cost of Mr Hs solicitors fees. While I 
understand why Mr H may felt it was necessary to instruct solicitors, Virgin had yet to raise  a 
chargeback request at the time they were instructed. 
I dont believe Virgin has done what it should have or acted fairly or reasonably in this 
matter. I also think  they shouldve been clearer and more  forthcoming throughout  both with 
Mr H and our service.  The matter has remained unresolved for a significant amount of time 
especially when I think it shouldve been resolved by the end of 2017. I also note that Virgin  
has told our service they are not pursuing  a s75 under the CCA.  
I can see Mr H has had to spend  a significant  amount  of time and effort  trying  to resolve this 
situation. To put this right, Virgin should pay Mr H a further £225 compensation for the 
Ref: DRN02717244distress and inconvenience caused. To be clear, this in addition to the £175 it has already 
paid to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. To put things right, I 
require Virgin Money plc to:
-refund  the disputed  transaction  to Mr H of £1,265 (which was re-debited  to his 
account in January  2018) plus any associated  interest:
-pay 8% simple interest on the above  figure from 1 January  2018 to the date of 
settlement; 
-ensure there arent any negative entries on Mr Hs credit  file as a result of this matter; 
and
-pay a further £225  compensation, in addition to the £175 already paid, for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H.
If Virgin Money plc considers that it's required by HM Revenue & Customs  (HMRC)  to take 
off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr H how much it's taken off. It should  also give
Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HMRC, if
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Simona Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0271724