K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to him alongside a credit card in 2003. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Through his representatives, 
Mr B disagreed with that view. So the matter has been passed  to me to make  a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Having considered all of the evidence  before  me, I havent upheld this complaint.  Ill explain 
why below. 
Mr B told us he cant remember anything about how the PPI was sold to him. But I can see 
from the paperwork thats available from the time that he probably bought the cover in a 
branch when he applied for his credit card. As Mr B hasnt been able to recall what  
happened, I think its likely that what was discussed around the PPI probably  reflects what  
was written in the paperwork. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr B would have known the policy  was optional  
and he didnt have  to buy it if he didnt want it. In their response to our adjudicator,  Mr Bs 
representatives said that it was not made  clear  to him that he had a choice about the PPI. 
Its not quite clear to me how that can be the case when Mr B doesnt recall the sale. 
I can see from the PPI section on the credit card application form that Mr B has ticked  a box 
to say he wanted cover. I think the wording  on that form is sufficiently clear  to show that Mr B 
didnt have to choose to take a policy out. It follows that I think  the person selling this cover 
to Mr B would have also made that clear.  I can also see that he didnt choose other financial 
products that were  available  at the time.  That brings me to the conclusion  that hed thought 
about which products  were right for him. 
RBS has also sent us one of Mr Bs credit card statements. I can see the PPI is listed there 
as cardholder  protection plan. If Mr B wasnt aware hed taken a policy out, I think  hed have 
queried what these  payments were for at the time. Overall, Im satisfied Mr B would have 
known he had a choice about buying this PPI. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest this was an advised sale. The documentation doesnt 
suggest that RBS took account  of Mr Bs personal circumstances before recommending this 
policy to him. But RBS still had to make sure it gave Mr B enough  information  about the PPI 
so he could decide for himself whether it was a good  fit for his needs. That information had 
to be fair, clear and not misleading.  
I dont think the form is clear about  the cost of the PPI. And I dont think  Mr B would 
necessarily have known  hed have to pay interest on the cost of his premiums  if he didnt 
Ref: DRN07779892repay his credit card balance off in full every  month.  On that basis,  I dont think  the person 
selling PPI to Mr B would  have made  this clear  either. 
So, the question  for me now is whether Mr B would have acted differently if RBS had told 
him everything it should have done. To help me decide what hes likely  to have done, Ive 
looked at what  Mr B told us about his personal  circumstances  in 2003. And Ive also 
considered the terms and conditions of the policy.  
I can see that if hed had to make  a claim on his PPI, 10% of Mr Bs credit card balance  
would have been repaid  every month he was out of work for a maximum of 12 months.  Mr B 
told us that he didnt need a policy because hed have received six months full pay and six 
months half pay from his employer if he became unwell. But I think  this policy  would have 
paid out in addition to and for longer than his full pay. So it could have been useful for Mr B.
Mr B also told us that he had savings  he could have used to cover his repayments.  I dont 
doubt that was the case. But if he was out of work, I think Mr B could have used those  
savings on his other essential expenditure  at what would  have  no doubt been a very 
stressful time for him. 
I appreciate Mr B doesnt now remember. But I think he probably chose to buy this PPI at the 
time. And I think it was overall probably  a good  fit for his needs. So I think  hed have still 
bought PPI even if RBS had given him clearer information. This means RBS doesnt  have  to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. 
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  RBS didnt  tell Mr B that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0777989