K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy because  Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  has recorded incorrect  information on
his credit file.
background
In late 2018 Mr H was declined for two credit card applications so he got in touch  with a
credit reference agency (CRA) about this. As a result,  in January 2019 he then complained
to Lloyds about two issues:
1. Incorrect address
The CRA  told him that his registered  address was incorrect  and this is likely to have 
contributed to his failed applications for credit. So Mr H complained  to Lloyds that hed told 
them about the change in September 2018 but they hadnt notified the CRAs. Lloyds sent a 
request for the details to be changed  and Mr Hs credit file was updated.
2. Open disputed  transaction query
The CRA also told Mr H that there was an open disputed transaction  query on his credit card 
account from January 2018.  Mr H believed this related to a disputed  transaction he had 
raised with Lloyds. However he said hed told them this was resolved in February 2018. Mr H 
complained to Lloyds  that this query remained open and that it was being reported  on his 
credit file. Lloyds updated their records by closing the query. But Mr H is unhappy that it was 
closed in February 2019 rather  than in February  2018. He has said this open query has been 
recorded inaccurately for a number of months and its having a negative impact on
his credit file.
Unhappy with Lloyds  response, Mr H referred  his complaint to our service. The investigator
did not uphold the complaint because they thought the incorrect  address had the greatest 
impact on Mr Hs credit  file, rather than the open disputed transaction query.  They  also felt 
the compensation offered  by Lloyds was a fair amount. In the absence  of further information
about the impact  of the query on Mr Hs credit  file, they believed it was reasonable for Lloyds
to mark the query as being closed in February  2019.
Mr H disagreed and maintained the open  query  was having a negative  impact which may
affect his future applications for credit. Lloyds  disagreed and said the record  of an open
disputed transaction  query is not adverse information.
This matter was then passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision in 
November 2019  and an extract of my provisional  findings is below.
Ive considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold  Mr Hs 
complaint and Ill explain why.
incorrect address
As Mr H has confirmed  his credit file has been updated to his correct address, this issue  is
no longer in dispute. I think  Lloyds compensation amount of £150 for the distress  and
inconvenience caused relating to the incorrect address  is a fair way to settle  the complaint.
Ref: DRN07151302And I note this has been paid to Mr H.
open disputed transaction query
So Ive considered whether it is reasonable for Lloyds to report  the open disputed 
transaction query as being closed in February  2019, rather than February 2018. Mr H has 
said he bought an item on his Lloyds credit  card in November 2017  however because he 
failed to receive  it, he raised a query  with Lloyds  around January 2018. Mr H said he 
eventually received the item in late January 2018  and he called Lloyds to let them know  the 
matter had been  resolved. I have seen Lloyds records  and I can see this conversation did 
take place. I can also see the query  wasnt closed.  Instead Lloyds records  in March 2018 
say they failed to receive requested information from Mr H about the details of the missing 
item, which suggests Lloyds failed to close the query the month before.
I am satisfied Mr H told Lloyds  that the disputed transaction query  was resolved in    
February 2018 so I wouldve expected them to close the query, update their system and
notify the CRAs at that point.
I have  seen a copy of Mr Hs credit file provided  by two CRAs and it shows there  is an 
unknown marker  recorded  for several  months  between 2018 and 2019 in relation to his 
Lloyd credit card account. Lloyds hasnt disputed this marker relates  to the disputed 
transaction query but they said this is not adverse  information on a credit  file.
However neither  Lloyds  nor I can definitively say how this information will be considered  by 
other parties who may look at Mr Hs credit file. Even so, it isnt an accurate record  of how 
Mr H managed his account so Lloyds should  update Mr Hs credit file to reflect  that the query
was closed by Mr H in February 2018.
Mr H says he is somebody  who aims  to stay on top of his credit card account and he may
need to apply for credit in the future  so I can understand why this issue  is important for him.
I can see he raised the issue about  the open disputed transaction query with Lloyds in 
January 2019.  I can also see that it wasnt addressed in Lloyds subsequent final response
letter. Due to the time and inconvenience it has taken Mr H to have the open disputed 
transaction query recorded accurately with Lloyds and the CRAs it reports  to, I am asking
Lloyds to pay £100 compensation to Mr H.
response to my provisional  decision
Both parties were invited to comment on my provisional decision.  Mr H and Lloyds confirmed 
they accept my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I've reached the same 
conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision and for the same  reasons.
my final decision
Ref: DRN07151303For the reasons set out above,  Ive decided  to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I require Lloyds 
Bank PLC to:
1.Update Mr Hs credit file to show the disputed transaction query he had raised in
January 2018,  was closed in February  2018 and send confirmation to him that this
has been done; and
2.To pay a further £100 compensation, in addition to the £150 already paid to Mr H, for
any distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Simona Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0715130