K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2010. Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading  at the time as Egg (Egg)  mis-sold him the 
PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have confirmed that they have no further comments  to make or new information 
for me to consider.  As I havent received  any responses which require  comment, I see no 
reason to change  my provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank  UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already  done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN02543552Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2010. Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading  at the time as Egg (Egg)  mis-sold him the 
PPI.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Cs case. Im currently intending on not 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Egg had to make it clear the policy was optional and Mr C had to agree to take it out. Egg 
has given me examples  of the pages from the online application  it thinks  Mr C would have 
completed, and they show he would have been asked to choose if he wanted the policy 
and select either yes or no options on screen.  Egg has said Mr C wouldnt have been  
able to proceed with his application unless he chose one of these options.  I cant be sure 
exactly what Mr C saw and filled in but without any evidence to make  me think  otherwise, I 
think its likely he would have seen these options  when  applying for the credit card and that 
the PPI was added as a result of him selecting  yes.
Ive also been  given a copy of the credit  agreement which was sent to Mr C after he 
completed his application  and this includes a tick in the box stating that he wished to take 
out the PPI. There is also an electronic signature  box to confirm this selection and a tick has 
been placed in this box.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told I think  Egg made Mr C aware the policy  was 
optional and he chose  to take it out, knowing he could have refused it if he didnt want  it.
Egg didnt  recommend the policy to Mr C so it didnt have to check the policy was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr C got the information  he needed to decide for himself if 
it was right for him.
Its possible  the information Egg gave  Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by the main  exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
Mr C told us he had a pre-existing  medical condition at the time of the sale. As this policy 
didnt provide cover for ongoing  pre-existing medical  conditions  this could have meant that 
Mr C may not have been able to claim if he was unable to work due to this condition.  As a 
result our adjudicator upheld this complaint. But from the information we have been given, 
I dont think better information  about  this exclusion would have made a difference to 
Mr Cs choice about taking PPI. I say this because the medical report  we have been  given 
Ref: DRN02543553was from 1996,  14 years before the sale. And, it appears from reading this report  that his 
medical condition  was in some  way caused by the occupation he had at the time. I can 
see that, by the time of the sale, Mr C had changed his job and so it would seem this 
occupation was not having the same  impact on his condition. Ive thought very carefully 
about this but I think its unlikely Mr C would  have expected to be off work (for more than 
the 28 day period  required by the policy) as a result of this condition and therefore  need  to 
make a claim.
From what  we have been told, Mr C would have received  six months full pay, followed by 
six months half pay from his employer if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness.  
But this policy would  have  paid out for up to 12 months which would be in addition  to any 
sick pay, and potentially  for longer  than he would receive full sick pay. And it would have 
provided cover for the same length  of time if he was to lose his job. So I still think this policy  
could have provided a useful benefit  to him.
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Egg didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional decision
I currently dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already  done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Ref: DRN0254355