K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lex Autolease Ltd applied unfair charges to his account at the end of 
his lease term.
background
Mr H entered into a two year hire agreement with Lex Autolease in 2016.  In 2018 he 
returned the car. Following this Mr H received notification  of charges that had been applied 
to his account. These related to damage  and a missing service history. Mr H says that the 
dents to the car were caused by manufacturing faults and that there was no indication that 
the car needed  servicing.
Lex Autolease says that at the end of the hire term the car underwent  an inspection, in line 
with its normal processes. The car then underwent another  inspection once it was with the 
collections agent. It says that this identified some damage that fell outside of the accepted 
levels and that the car was missing any service  history. 
Mr H said that he thought the damage was due to a manufacturing defect so Lex Autolease 
contacted the manufacturer. It was told there  were  no known issues that would have caused 
the reported damage. Lex Autolease agreed to credit Mr Hs account with £42 for a charge 
made for a dent in the left hand front door as this was not noted in the collections report. It 
says that the other charges remain.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He did not think  that the charges had been  
unfairly applied.  
Mr H did not accept our adjudicators view. He reiterated that no message came on the cars 
display to say that a service was needed. He said that although this may have been included  
in the terms and conditions it was unlikely  any customer  would regularly refer to these. He 
said it was reasonable to have expected  to receive some other indication that a service  was 
required.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H is unhappy that charges  have been  applied to his account at the end of his lease  term. 
I can see that the outstanding damage charges relate to scratches to a wheel and a dent.  
There is also a charge applied for a missed service.
Mr H thought that the dent could have been  due to a manufacturing defect. However further  
investigation into this has not identified any known manufacturing  issues. Therefore I do not 
find that I can say the damage was the result of a manufacturing defect. As the damage was 
noted on collection and photographs have been provided to show the damage I cannot  say it 
is unreasonable that a charge has been  applied for this.
In regard to the wheel damage,  this is shown on the inspection  report.  Lex Autolease  has 
explained that it uses industry  guidelines to assess what is considered fair wear and tear. I 
have looked at the guidelines from the British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  
Ref: DRN06111172(BVRLA). This says that any damage  to the wheel spoke is not acceptable. Therefore I do 
not find it unreasonable that a charge has been  made.
I note that Mr H has said that he will accept  paying  the damage charges but is particularly 
upset about the charge for the missing  service history. I understand the points Mr H has 
raised about a service  light not coming  on in the car. However I would expect Mr H to have 
checked what servicing requirements  the car had. The terms and conditions set out that the 
car must be serviced by the manufacturers appointed dealers at the intervals the 
manufacturer recommends. The dealer has also said that Mr H would have been told he 
needed to service the car according  to the manufacturers guidelines when he entered  into 
the hire agreement. 
Further information has been provided saying  that the car had a service interval of 12 
months or 12,500 miles whichever came  sooner.  Mr H has said that no services were carried  
out. So, while I appreciate the comments Mr H has made,  I find it reasonable that he should 
have been aware  of the need to have the car serviced and had he not known when these 
were due he could  have contacted the dealer or manufacturer. Therefore I do not find it 
unreasonable that Mr H has been  charged for the missing service history.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0611117