K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant) shouldnt have lent money  to him 
because he had other debts at the time. He wants Avant to:
freeze the interest on his loan and set up an affordable repayment plan;
refund  the interest and any charges paid, plus statutory interest;
remove any adverse information  on his credit  file.
background
Mr W took out a loan with Avant in May 2015. The terms  of the loan required him to pay 
equal monthly instalments over 42 months.  
Mr W didnt make the payments required and started to incur  charges. 
In July 2017, Avant sold the debt to another company. 
Mr W sought advice and assistance from a debt charity and entered  into a repayment  plan.  
In April 2018, he complained to Avant that they should never  have lent to him in the first 
place. He said that, at the time he applied  for the loan,  he had multiple loans with other 
companies and no way of paying them back. 
Avant didnt  uphold his complaint. They said that they had carried out an assessment on 
Mr Ws income and expenditure before they had lent to him. They  had also ensured that he 
had had no overall debt increases in the 12 months  prior to the loan being  taken out. They 
considered that they had properly assessed the affordability of the loan to Mr W. 
Mr W brought the complaint to us. 
Our investigator thought that Avant did carry out appropriate checks  for the loan. 
Mr W has asked  for a further look at his complaint  so it has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr W isnt going to be happy  with my decision. I think Avant carried out an 
appropriate assessment  of Mr Ws finances  before  they decided to give him the loan. I will 
explain why. 
I have looked  at the forms that Mr W completed  prior to the loan being taken and also the 
information that Avant held regarding Mr W as well as further information that I now have.
When Mr W applied  for the loan, he told Avant his monthly income  was £1,213  and his 
monthly expenditure was £600.  His statements show a weekly  pay of £282 and his 
expenditure from these  statements is mainly repayments  of payday lending  and cash 
withdrawals. 
Ref: DRN06933762Avant werent offering Mr W another payday  loan. They were lending  Mr W a larger amount 
over a longer  period of time. This could've enabled him to repay most if not all his short  term 
lending and given  him a fixed  monthly instalment of £125.33.
However, even without repaying  the short term loans, when looking at the information 
provided, Mr W had disposable income of over £600 per month. The monthly repayments for 
the loan were £125.33 so I don't think this loan was unaffordable. There  are occasions 
where we might say a lender  should  have done  further checks if there were any concerns  
with the information it relied on. But I don't think that Avant needed to do anymore checks  as 
the information Mr W had provided matched what was on his statement and his credit report.
my final decision
I think that AvantCredit of UK, LLC carried out a proper assessment of Mr Ws finances 
before they gave  him the loan. So, I dont require them  to do anything  else.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0693376