K821x#15complaint
Mr P says that after an accident, AXA Insurance  UK Plc gave  him incorrect information, and
as a result  he spent a considerable amount of money on hire cars and taxis. He is also
unhappy with the service  hes received from AXA, including the lack of updates about his
claim for consequential losses.
background
Mr P was involved  in a non-fault motor vehicle  accident in September  2017. As a result,  his
car was deemed a total loss. AXA made a payment to the finance company to clear the
outstanding finance, with the balance paid to Mr P. He wasnt happy about that. Hed wanted
the full amount paid to him.
Mr P later also complained to AXA that hed been told, when he reported the incident, that
hed be reimbursed for hire car costs. Hes said that if hed been given the correct
information (including about the daily cap on payments), he wouldnt  have  paid for the hire
car.
Finally, Mr P said AXA hadnt been  giving him updates  about  the ongoing claim for
consequential losses, and that overall hed received extremely  poor service.  In particular he
says he kept having  to chase for responses, but his calls werent returned. He feels hes
been blacklisted.
The investigator believed  AXA should pay Mr P interest on the £510.15 that the third party
insurer (TPI) had agreed to pay to cover hire car/taxi costs  but which he hadnt known
about until some months later. As well, the investigator said Mr P was entitled  to increased
compensation totalling £500 for the trouble and upset hed experienced because  of AXAs
poor customer service. (That was, over and above the £250  AXA had previously offered.)
AXA didnt agree and so the matter came  to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 February  2019,  explaining why I felt 
the amount of compensation for trouble and upset  should be reduced,  but agreeing that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  
Mr P did not accept the provisional decision. In his response he acknowledged that the TPI 
was still offering to pay his taxi costs, but he said that he hadnt  accepted  because  he felt 
other costs  should be considered. He made no specific  submissions  about  the reduction  in 
compensation for trouble  and upset.  
AXA did not accept  the provisional  decision, but provided no further submissions. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and given that there has been  no new information to change  my view,  I see 
no reason to depart from my previous decision.  
Ref: DRN06735742I think the complaint  should be upheld, but with reduced compensation. My reasons (broadly 
as set out in my provisional decision) are below. 
Hire car costs
The policy says that if the damaged vehicle cant be repaired  (total loss), then a courtesy car
would be provided  for up to 14 days. The policy goes on to say that if a courtesy car cant  be
arranged after an accident,  then AXA would pay alternative travelling costs up to a maximum
of £15 per day. The evidence  indicates  this maximum wasnt pointed  out to Mr P when he
called.
While I feel the policy document is clear  on this point, I also think its reasonable to expect
that Mr P would have  been reminded, when he called, of the relevant limits. As it was, he
went ahead  and made his own alternative  travel arrangements and incurred costs  for that.
Because it was a non-fault  accident, Mr P had been attempting to claim his uninsured losses
from the TPI, as he was entitled to do. The TPI had confirmed  to AXA in a letter dated 13
December 2017  that theyd reimburse  him his taxi and hire car costs totalling £510.15.
However, AXA didnt  tell Mr P until September 2018.  In the meantime he had been out of
pocket.
So while I do think AXA couldve  been clearer when Mr P first called to clarify the hire car
issue, he hasnt lost out entirely,  since the TPI has agreed to reimburse him. At the same
time, I think its fair that AXA pay Mr P interest on the £515.15 from the time AXA became
aware of the TPIs offer to pay (on about 13 December 2017), until the date Mr P became
aware of it (25 September  2018).
It is also important that Mr P be reminded that we cannot consider or decide on any 
concerns he may have  about the way the TPI is dealing with him. It is a matter between  him 
and the TPI as to whether or not he accepts  their offer.  
Consequential losses
In its 13 December 2017 letter, the TPI referred to other losses  claimed  by Mr P (including
his claim for time spent and lost wages),  but declined to cover them at that point. It is not
clear what,  if any, further developments there have been in that regard, but that is a matter
for Mr P to follow  up directly  with the TPI; that isnt something AXA is obliged to do. Nor is
AXA itself obliged under  the policy to cover those consequential  costs or losses.
The investigators view was that if the TPI agreed to reimburse any other  of Mr Ps
consequential losses, then interest  should  also be paid on any such outstanding amount if
AXA was responsible for a delay in Mr P receiving it. However, Ive seen nothing to suggest
that other  payments were  offered by the TPI, or that any such  offer or payments were
delayed by AXA. So I cant  see that Mr P has been prejudiced by AXAs actions in that
regard, and that means there is no interest to be paid.
Payment to Mr Ps finance  company
Mr P is also unhappy that AXA made a payment directly to his finance company to pay out
the balance on the lease,  before paying  him the remainder of the settlement. The policy
allows AXA to do that, and that is a usual policy provision. While AXA might reasonably have
explained that to Mr P before making  the payment,  I cant see that it has done anything
wrong, nor that he has been prejudiced by that.
Ref: DRN06735743Compensation for trouble  and upset
AXA acknowledged Mr Ps concerns  about its service, and apologised for that (including for
the unusually  long phone hold times that had been  occurring). In its letter of 15 January
2018, AXA offered  £150  compensation for the poor service. But this was different from the
£250 initially  offered when  Mr P made  his complaint. AXA has since  confirmed its offer of
£250 still stands,  which I consider it should, in the circumstances.
Its apparent from what Mr P has said, and the information provided by AXA, that Mr P did
encounter unacceptable service  in the course of his claim. That included repeated delayed
(or totally absent) responses/follow-up to his enquiries and information requests, and overall
poor communication.
In particular, the delay of about 9 months  in AXA passing on the TPIs response to his
consequential losses claim was unreasonable and could have been  easily  avoided.  As well, I
understand the payment  for the total loss of the vehicle was not made when it had been
promised.
Its understandable  that Mr P felt considerable upset and inconvenience as a result.  In the
circumstances, AXA should  pay him a total of £350 (including the £250 previously offered). I
appreciate that this total is less than that recommended by the investigator, but Im satisfied
that is already  a considerable amount  and is fair in the particular circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint and 
that AXA Insurance UK Plc should  pay:
interest at the rate of 8% simple on the £510.15  offered  by the TPI to cover
hire car and taxi costs,  calculated from 13 December 2017 to 25 September  2018 (and if 
AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.)
a total of £350 for trouble and upset. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Helen Moye
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0673574