K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs S bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs Ss store card application form was completed to show that she wanted the 
PPI cover. So I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs S didnt realise she had a 
choice about whether or not to buy the PPI. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. That means it didnt  have to ask about any other means  that Mrs 
S had to cover her repayments.
But even if FICL had recommended  the policy to Mrs S, it doesnt  look as though 
it was unsuitable  for her, based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time. Mrs S says she was entitled  to benefits  from her employer if she was off 
work sick. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to her employer benefits,  
and wouldve meant she could use her sick pay to cover other expenses.  
So I think Mrs S wouldve had some use for the policy,  despite  her existing 
arrangements.
Its possible  the information FICL  gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mrs S would have  been  affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit.  So I 
dont think better  information  wouldve stopped her buying it.
Ref: DRN09937742my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0993774