K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about issues  hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS).
background
In September  2016 Mr D was supplied with car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS.
In 2017 Mr D experienced two separate instances  of the car stopping without warning. The 
car was returned to the dealership following the first breakdown but no fault could be 
identified. On each  occasion a software update was carried out to try and resolve the issue.
The car broke down  again in early 2018.  It was returned to the dealership and a further 
attempt to resolve the issue was made.  In late 2018  the car broke down again and was 
returned to the dealership who replaced  the battery.
Mr D complained to VWFs and asked to reject  the car. VWFS  declined  the request and said 
there was no evidence of a point of supply fault.
Mr D wasnt happy with VWFSs response so he complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He didnt think  it was reasonable to replace the 
battery on a car which was only two years old which had a history  of random breakdowns.  
The investigator said the agreement should  be cancelled  and Mr D should receive a refund 
of his deposit and some of his monthly  payments.
VWFS accepted the investigators view in part but said it didnt agree that Mr D should have 
his monthly payments refunded.  It said that Mr D had been  able to use the car and it felt the 
compensation was adequate for the issues hed experienced.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt seem to be any real dispute between the parties that the car isnt of 
satisfactory quality. But for the avoidance of doubt,  I agree with the investigator that a 
reasonable person wouldnt expect a brand new car to break  down repeatedly and to require 
a new battery after only two years. I dont think the battery on this car (and possibly other 
components related to the battery  such as the stop/start system) was durable.
Therefore Ill focus on redress. Im of the view that because the car isnt of satisfactory  
quality and because  the first attempt to repair the car didnt resolve the issue,  Mr D should 
be allowed to reject the car.
Although Mr D experienced repeated  breakdowns he was able to use the car up until 
October 2018 when  it was last returned to the dealer for repairs.  Hes been without use of 
the car since  then and he hasnt been provided with alternative transport. Because of this, I 
think Mr D should receive a refund of the monthly  payments  hes made since  October 2018.
Ref: DRN04225342As well as loss of use, Mr D has suffered impaired enjoyment of his car. Hes explained  that 
the random breakdowns caused him significant distress and inconvenience.  Hes had to wait 
for significant periods of time for roadside  assistance and hes had to return  the car to the 
dealer on four separate  occasions. Taking  this into consideration  I think compensation of 
£500 is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
must:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr D.
Refund any deposit paid by Mr D together with simple interest at 8% per year from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund Mr Ds monthly  payments from October  2018 to date
Pay compensation of £500 for distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0422534