K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Culver Financial Management Ltd (CFM)  gave  them 
unsuitable advice  to take out a reviewable Whole-of-Life (WOL) plan because:
No alternatives  were  presented.
The suitability  letter doesnt identify the risks in relation  to the plan after the first 
10 years or show the risks in a quantifiable way.
The suitability  letter doesnt spell out the future increases or that these could be 
substantial.
When they stopped the plan they got back £40,226 having  paid over £70,000 into it 
which is a shocking  devaluation of their finances.
They werent told why they were recommended to cancel their existing policy.
background
In 2002 Mr and Mrs G were advised  to take out a joint life second  death reviewable unit-
linked WOL plan to be put in trust to help mitigate their potential  Inheritance  Tax (IHT)  
liability which was calculated at £850,000.  They took out a WOL plan that provided  life cover 
of £499,000 at a premium of £400 each month. The plan had an inflation option that 
Mr and Mrs G exercised  in 2015 which increased  the sum assured to £548,900 with a 
premium of £440.
On review of the plan by the provider  in 2018  they were told an increase  of the premium to 
£1,665 was necessary to keep the sum assured the same, or a reduction to the sum assured 
to £275,532 would be needed  to keep the premium the same.  The review also indicated 
further significant increases would be needed  in future.  This led Mr and Mrs G to cancel the 
WOL plan and complain  to CFM and the provider - which  complaint  has also been referred 
to us and which I am considering separately.
CFM provided  a final response to the complaint and, in short, made the following points:
It didnt  advise Mr and Mrs G to cancel the existing policy which  its records show  had 
been taken  out as temporary measure for IHT protection.
The adviser did advise Mr and Mrs G that the existing policy could run alongside the 
recommended WOL plan.
Having  agreed  the objective  the adviser had to find a provider who could meet the 
objective, not provide  alternative options.
Its suitability letter  explained that the premium  would almost certainly need to 
increase in the future and it provided an illustration  for a plan that was designed so 
the premium  remained  level where  the premium was much higher.
The future increases to the premium werent  known  and there was no way for the 
adviser to provide this information.
The WOL plan was recommended purely  as a life cover  plan not a savings plan and 
the suitability  letter warned that in later years there would be little or no surrender 
value.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
short he made the following points:
Ref: DRN07153732Mr and Mrs G werent advised  to cancel their existing policy.
CFM  advised that the existing policy could be kept going in conjunction with the 
recommended WOL policy.
On the information available the decision  to cancel the existing policy  was made  by 
Mr and Mrs G.
The recommended WOL  policy was suitable  and it isnt for us to say if there was 
something else that may have  been suitable.
The adviser made clear that the premium was likely to go up in the future.
There was no evidence to support what Mr G had said about being  told that any 
increases would be modest  and affordable.
The adviser provided three options  one of which was a plan that was designed so the 
premium wouldnt  need to go up which had a much higher initial premium.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the investigator. They said that the existing policy wasnt part 
of an IHT solution but a pension policy and that they have been  told they shouldve been 
given alternatives.
Mr and Mrs G also said that they didnt choose the cheapest premium  form the options 
presented by the adviser and they had dutifully paid the premium  for 17 years  and were told 
any increases would only be minor. And when the provider increased the premium so 
significantly they were  forced  to stop the plan. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr and Mrs G believe that the WOL plan wasnt suitable  for their needs. 
They have ended  up cancelling the plan because of the increase to the premium that 
wouldve been necessary for them to keep the sum assured  at the level they wanted and 
had been warned of further  significant  increases being necessary. 
I understand why they chose to cancel  the plan. And having paid over £75,000 into the plan 
they are now without the cover that was intended  to be used by their children to pay the 
potential IHT liability arising on the death of the second of them.
But this doesnt  mean that CFM did something wrong in advising them to take out the plan in 
the first place. Mr and Mrs G have not suggested that they didnt want to mitigate their 
potential IHT liability - as the suitability letter identified  their objective as being. So the main 
issue I am considering  is whether the advice to take out a WOL plan was suitable  to achieve 
that objective. In simple  terms  there  are two main ways of providing IHT mitigation. 
The first is to reduce  the value of your estate so that IHT is no longer payable  or is at least  
significantly reduced. This is usually achieved by gifting part/s of your estate to your family, 
either absolutely  or by way of a trust. This will then generally not be taken into account for 
IHT purposes seven years  after the gift. 
It is clear from the suitability letter that this wasnt an option that Mr and Mrs G were 
interested in as the letter records they wanted to keep hold of their assets to maintain their 
lifestyle.
Ref: DRN07153733Mr and Mrs G have not suggested this wasnt the case and even  if they had gifted some of 
their assets  away I think it likely they wouldve still had a significant  IHT liability, given the 
potential value of their overall  estate as referred  to in the suitability letter was £2,625,000. 
Their potential IHT liability  was £850,000 taking account of their combined  nil-rate band  of 
£500,000. So even if they had gifted £1 million of their assets  away they would still have  had 
a potential IHT liability  of £425,000. So I still think they wouldve needed to take further steps 
to mitigate their potential  IHT.
The second  way of trying  to mitigate the impact of IHT is to put in place something that wont 
itself form part of the estate but will pay the potential IHT payable on second death. A WOL 
plan placed in trust is a recognised way of achieving this.
Mr and Mrs G have said that no alternatives were given. But, as I have said,  the adviser did 
advise that ideally steps should be taken to reduce the IHT liability by reducing assets. And if 
Mr and Mrs G are suggesting that there was some obligation on the adviser to go through all 
possible alternative plans  that were  available then this isnt something  that I think he needed 
to do. He had to make a suitable  recommendation not all suitable recommendations. 
Mr and Mrs G have said that the adviser  didnt identify the risks in relation  to the plan after 
the first 10 years, or do so in a quantifiable way. But the suitability letter made  clear  that the 
premium would be regularly reviewed after 10 years and warned, in bold, that: 
It is almost  guaranteed that the chosen level of premium will need to be increased  in the 
future to maintain  the level of life cover required.
I acknowledge no figures were provided  as to what the premium might increase to on review.   
But that isnt something that any adviser wouldve been able to provide as this wouldnt have 
been known at the time of advice.  
Mr and Mrs G have said the adviser indicated any increases would be minor  or modest.  I 
accept Mr and Mrs G have told me what they believe happened. But they are recalling 
events from a long time ago and recollections  from so long ago are unlikely to be accurate or 
complete. And I think they were given  a clear indication that the premium would need to 
increase significantly.  
This is because the adviser provided  an illustration  for a reviewable WOL plan for the same  
amount of cover that was designed  but not guaranteed  to keep  the same  premium until 
second death. The premium for that plan was £843 as set out in the suitability letter. If that 
was the figure for a plan designed not to need  a premium increase I think it was reasonably 
clear that at some point  the increase on review of their plan would be more  than minor. I also 
think it is unlikely the adviser wouldve suggested  any increase would be minor having 
provided that illustration.
 
Mr and Mrs G have also complained about  the amount they got back  when they cancelled 
the plan. But it was taken out to provide life cover on the death of the second of them.  So 
whilst it included investment, the purpose  of that investment was to help pay for the cost of 
providing the life cover  as this increased  over time  as life cover  costs increase as people  
age. The plan wasnt in itself an investment that was meant to give Mr and Mrs G any money 
back. The adviser also made this clear in the suitability letter.
The adviser explained in the letter that the plan:
Ref: DRN07153734will acquire a surrender  value during the early  years, but as the policy  is primarily designed 
to provide life cover,  in the latter years little or no surrender value  should  be expected.
So Mr and Mrs G were made aware  that they wouldnt necessarily get anything back if they 
cancelled the plan. 
One other issue raised by Mr and Mrs G is about  their existing policy. In the suitability letter 
this is referred to as a joint life last survivor level term assurance policy that was arranged 
some years previously to provide IHT family protection in the pre-retirement period. 
Mr and Mrs G have said that the adviser  didnt explain  the advantages  and disadvantages  of 
cancelling the policy, or advise  them about  retaining the policy  and offering a product that 
ran alongside  it. In a letter  to us dated  24 June 2019 Mr G actually said they were advised to 
get out of the existing policy.
But the suitability  letter actually suggests the policy should only be cancelled  if Mr and Mrs G 
find acceptable and affordable alternative cover. And goes on to say that the policy  could run 
alongside the recommended WOL plan. So there  was a suggestion the policy  could be 
continued with another  product to run alongside it  the WOL plan. I have seen no evidence  
CFM advised them to cancel the existing policy. In the circumstances Im not persuaded that 
what the adviser said about  the existing policy was wrong. 
I note Mr and Mrs G also suggested  that the existing policy  wasnt to do with IHT mitigation 
but related to a pension. I have been given no further evidence  on this point  or about the 
policy generally. If it was a joint policy on a second  death basis as the suitability  letter 
indicates then I dont see how it related to a pension. 
But in any event, whatever it was for Im not persuaded  that this made  the advice given 
about the WOL plan unsuitable. Mr and Mrs G still needed to mitigate their potential IHT 
liability so still needed the WOL plan regardless of what the existing policy  was. If it didnt 
relate to a pension then the advice to keep it going unless suitable alternative cover  was 
obtained seems sensible  - given they still had a significant potential  IHT liability  even taking 
account of the WOL plan.
In summary,  whilst I acknowledge  and accept Mr and Mrs G feel they werent  given suitable  
advice, a reviewable WOL plan is a suitable recommendation for IHT mitigation as long as it 
is made clear that the plan will be reviewed and what the risks are  in particular the 
likelihood of premium  increase  on review. Im not satisfied  on the evidence I have seen that 
the adviser didnt  give Mr and Mrs G the information they needed about the plan.  I think  the 
WOL plan was a suitable  recommendation in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN07153735my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0715373