K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains about the overall customer service he received from Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) following the closure  of his account.
background 
Barclays made the decision to close Mr Cs account. Then,  in October 2018 Mr C made a 
subject access request (SAR) and received a reply  from Barclays  that it would take up to 30 
days to process, although he was warned  that in complex cases that might  be longer - up to 
90 days. By the time of his complaint in March 2019, he said he had not had a response.  In 
addition when he spoke  to various Barclays representatives on the telephone,  he said they 
always failed to identify  him and discuss with him any difficulties he was facing. He was 
unhappy with one of the calls as he said he was laughed at. 
He also had a meeting  with a branch manager  who he said had not been informative and in 
fact very animated. He felt Barclays had not investigated his complaint properly and then 
closed it down. Overall he thought  Barclays  had been evasive and failed to give him clear 
information about what was happening  with his SAR request. 
Barclays said it didnt have any record of Mr Cs SAR request and couldnt say what  had 
happened to it, despite sending him an email acknowledging receipt  of the request. Barclays 
accepted Mr C went into branch on Saturday the 2 March  but said they were unable to help 
at that point as the team  dealing with SAR requests were not working. A specific  
appointment was made for him with the branch manager on the 6 March,  but he did not keep 
it. Barclays did say that Mr C attended  without an appointment on the 23 March when he 
was upset and agitated,  asking to see all of the notes on his file. Barclays say their advisor 
offered to raise an SAR and or a complaint, but Mr C didnt  want to do that, and nor did he 
want the advisor to speak  with the manager  when that was offered.
Barclays didnt accept  it had provided  poor service in any of the calls nor in meeting with 
Mr C. Mr C was unhappy  with Barclays response  and so an investigator  from this service 
looked into the complaint. He thought Barclays had provided a poor service  and awarded 
£200 compensation in recognition of the confusing  and incorrect information it gave. Mr C 
disagreed with that view and so the matter  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat the investigators 
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues.  My decisions are based on the 
evidence in front of me. Where such evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, I consider  
what is more likely  to have happened  in light of that evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I accept Mr C made a SAR request and that something then went wrong. I cannot say what,  
but it is clear that Barclays  exceeded the time limits for complying with the request and that 
is clearly poor service. Mr C has then tried to find out what  has happened  to his SAR request 
and it seems Barclays were unable to give him a definitive answer. Like our investigator,  I 
think the most likely  explanation  is that because they had not properly recorded the request 
Ref: DRN08584172the various advisors he spoke to got into difficulty in accurately advising him and giving him 
clear information. I also agree that Mr C raised  this issue in his complaint and Barclays  have 
not dealt with it in their final response  letter. Again that is poor service  and so Mr C is correct 
when he says his complaint  was not properly dealt  with.
I have considered the meeting Mr C had with the branch manager and Ive considered  the 
statements of Barclays staff and also of JR, Mr Cs witness, who accompanied him to two 
meetings. JR indicates that the manager was very animated and threatened to have both 
she and Mr C removed from the premises. JR also states that the manager was aggressive 
towards her in his mannerisms and gestures. Neither the manager nor the staff member who 
was also in attendance has spoken of such behaviour. Ive also looked at the notes of the 
first call Mr C had with this service when he outlined his complaint. He too makes no mention 
of such behaviour on the part of the manager.  On balance therefore,  I am satisfied that there 
was no such behaviour as JR has alleged. Ive also considered whether there is evidence 
that Barclays were unhelpful  or evasive. I dont think they were, because they arranged a 
specific appointment for Mr C and offered to take a complaint and further  SAR request. I can 
see however how Mr C might have interpreted the response he received as evasive, 
because Barclays were  unable to help him with specific information he sought at that time.
I have listened  to the recorded telephone calls sent to me. I know  Mr C says there  were  
more than this but Barclays has only found 3 more which  are of very short duration and not 
as Mr C describes. So I dont think listening to them will change anything. The calls I have 
listened to have not recorded anyone acting inappropriately and all those people Mr C spoke 
to were professional  and tried to help. So I dont  think there  is any evidence of poor service  
here.
So I do think  Barclays should  pay compensation to Mr C for the failures  in service, and the 
issue is how much. I have thought about  the £200  compensation  our investigator suggested 
and I think that this is reasonable. It is in line with the awards this service would make for 
distress and inconvenience in circumstances like this, and I think it is fair.
my final decision
So my decision is that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC should pay Mr C £200.00. Under the rules  of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision 
before 24 October  2019. 
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0858417