K820x#14complaint
Mr T doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce the debt from which  he was discharged 
when his protected trust deed came to an end in 2006.
background
In September  2019, I issued my provisional decision explaining to Mr T why I wasnt  
intending to uphold his complaint. I said that it would be fair for RBS to use Mr Ts 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI to reduce the amount he owed and didnt repay to RBS 
when his trust deed came to an end.
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further comments  or information they 
wanted me to consider before making  my final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable, Im required by DISP  3.6.4 R of the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  industry  
practice at the relevant time.
RBS has responded  to my provisional  decision saying that it had nothing further to add. It 
told us that the offer of redress on the complaint remained outstanding as it was yet to 
receive acceptance and it would  be used  to set-off the outstanding amount  against RBS 
claim in the trust deed.
Mr T hasnt  given  me anything further  to consider so I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. I am sorry  to disappoint Mr T, but for the reasons set out below I havent 
upheld his complaint.
Ref: DRN07212452my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. Its fair for The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc 
to use Mr Ts compensation  for the mis-sold  PPI to reduce the amount he owed and didnt 
repay when  his trust deed came  to an end. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN07212453Copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr T doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use his payment protection 
insurance (PPI) compensation  to reduce  the debt from which he was discharged when  his protected 
trust deed came to an end in 2006.
background
Mr T took out a series  of loans  with RBS between 1999  and 2001. He took out PPI alongside  these  
loans to protect his repayments. He also took out PPI on an overdraft. 
In July 2002  Mr T entered into a trust deed as he was unable to pay all his debts when they fell due. 
This became  a protected trust deed for his creditors. This is an alternative in Scotland  to bankruptcy  
(called sequestration in Scotland). It is a legally  binding agreement between  a consumer  and their 
creditors, which is administered by a trustee.
When Mr T entered into the trust deed,  RBSs total claim  was £16,652.18  and RBSs  records indicate 
that it didnt receive any dividends. RBS didnt chase for these outstanding  sums but it confirmed it 
wrote off the accounts as a result of the trust deed.  While RBS didnt  chase for the outstanding sums 
the debt still existed.  So a substantial amount of debt was left unrecovered from Mr T.
Mr T complained to RBS about the mis-sale  of these policies. RBS upheld the complaint about  all the 
PPI policies and offered  to refund the PPI premiums and the extra interest that Mr T had paid to date 
together with simple interest to compensate him for the time hed been out of pocket. Mr T signed  the 
acceptance forms for these offers in June 2017 and RBS confirmed receipt  of this acceptance.
RBS confirmed it had used the redress to offset  against its total claim  in the trust deed. But Mr T 
doesnt think  the PPI compensation he was offered should be used by RBS in this way. He says that 
as the protected trust deed  long since ended, he doesnt owe the money to RBS.  He has asked that 
the compensation be paid directly to him.
Our adjudicator said that she didnt think this complaint should be upheld.  She thought  that it was fair 
to set off the compensation  against the sums  owed  to RBS. She said that RBS had acted in line with 
our expectations. Unhappy with the adjudicators view, Mr T asked that the matter be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. He said that he no longer  owed any money  to RBS as he had long 
since been discharged from the protected trust deed,  so it wasnt right that RBS should use the 
compensation to reduce debt he was no longer  responsible  for. So the matter has been  passed to 
me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable, Im 
required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
Ref: DRN07212454As RBS has upheld Mr Ts PPI mis-sale  complaint, in this provisional decision Ive just looked  at 
whether what  its done to put things right is fair and reasonable. I havent looked at how the PPI 
policies came  to be mis-sold. And Mr T hasnt raised any issues about the amount of compensation 
offered so I also wont consider this. Mr Ts complaint is that RBS has set-off the amount of 
compensation to reduce the loan amount that hasnt been fully repaid rather than paying the 
compensation directly  to him.
So in this decision I need to decide whether its fair and reasonable for RBS to use Mr Ts PPI 
compensation offer to reduce the much higher amount of debt which he wasnt required to repay  back 
to it (and was written off by RBS)  after his protected trust deed was closed  in 2006.
And in this case the relevant  law I need to take account of is Scottish law. In recent years there have 
been a number of cases looking at what happens to PPI compensation after a trust deed has been 
discharged. 
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court considered  the effect  of a discharge  
following a final distribution by the trustee.  In that case, the discharge was held to terminate the trust 
which meant that any unrealised assets  were returned to the debtor  including the PPI compensation  
that no one had known about at the time.
So in this case the Supreme  Court said that the PPI compensation should  not be paid to the trustees 
for the benefit of the creditors. It said it should  be paid to the consumer.
In Donnelly v The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC [2017] SAC (Civ) 1, the Sheriff Appeal Court 
considered whether RBS could offset PPI compensation against the amount that hadnt been repaid 
when the trust deed came  to an end. The terms of the trust deed in this case  meant RBS had, in 
effect, agreed that the debt would be extinguished  and it couldnt later revive  the debt to offset the 
PPI compensation (I understand RBS has appealed this decision, so the outcome may change).
So I accept that, unless and until the Inner House reverses the decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court, 
and on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are essentially the same 
as those in this case, then RBS could  not, in court, successfully argue  for set-off in this case.
In this case I am aware of and have  taken into account the relevant  law. But I must apply an over-
arching test of whats fair and reasonable  in the particular circumstances  of Mr Ts complaint. Having 
done this, I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the money  Mr T borrowed 
and didnt repay.
Just because Mr T entered into a protected trust deed - owing RBS £16,652.18 - and Mr T was 
discharged from the debt when  the trust deed ended, doesnt make a difference to what is fair. I think 
it would be unfair to tell RBS to pay Mr T compensation when he doesnt  now have  to repay the 
borrowing which was still outstanding.
The fact that Mr Ts protected trust deed had come to an end before this offer of PPI compensation  
was made doesnt, in my opinion, make a difference to what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances here. I dont  think anyone would think  it fair to require RBS to repay the PPI 
compensation directly  to Mr T when  he doesnt now need to pay back to RBS a much bigger amount 
which he borrowed to take out his loans.
So it follows from what Ive said that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation  its offered to 
reduce the outstanding  debt which was written off by RBS following the closure of Mr Ts protected 
trust deed.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional  decision is Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN07212455Im currently  minded to decide that its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc to use Mr Ts 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI to reduce the amount he owed and didnt  repay when his trust 
deed came  to an end. 
So unless comments or information I get by 13 October  2019 change my mind, based on what Ive 
seen so far I dont plan to ask The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  to do anything more to put things right.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0721245