K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited (MBFS) didnt collect 
or inspect  her lease  car when they said they would. She says this resulted in her incurring 
storage charges.
background
Mrs B took receipt of a new car in February 2015. She financed the deal through  a hire 
agreement with MBFS and at the end of the contractual term she says she contacted  MBFS 
and arranged for their collection agents to pick the car up and inspect it on 23 February 
2018.
But the collection didnt  happen until 28 March and, as the car was no longer  insured, Mrs B 
said she had to put it in storage and pay the costs of £1,040. She was also disappointed that 
the rearranged  collection  meant she couldnt be present  when the car was inspected so she 
disputed the charges to refurbish the car.
MBFS apologised for the delay in collection and they offered Mrs B £250 to compensate her 
for this. They  also reduced the charges they were  making to refurbish the car. But Mrs B 
wasnt happy with this resolution and she therefore  referred her complaint  to this service.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the call records made  between Mrs B, MBFS and the collection 
agent and whilst there was no specific mention of the collection date, she tended to agree 
that it was likely the 23 February was the agreed  date and MBFS had therefore let Mrs B 
down. But she thought the compensation of £250 that MBFS had already offered was 
sufficient recompense in the circumstances. 
She went on to consider  the end of contract charges that MBFS had made.  She reviewed 
the inspection  report and noted MBFS were  charging for four areas of refurbishment but 
when she compared  the pictorial damage  with the guidelines provided  by the industry  
standard, the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA),  she thought the 
damage was clearly outside of the acceptable standard  and MBFS had therefore  been within  
their contractual rights to charge the £467.85 they did. She therefore thought theyd been fair 
to reduce this charge to try to settle the issue with Mrs B. 
She then thought about the storage  charges Mrs B was claiming  but she didnt think  it would 
be fair to ask MBFS to refund these.  She explained that she didnt think  the invoice Mrs B 
had supplied  was suitable evidence and she noted the person storing the car was a 
neighbour. She thought  MBFS  had been  fair when saying theyd be prepared to repay  the 
costs if Mrs B provided a proper invoice. But as that hadnt been  provided she didnt think it 
was fair to ask them to do anything more.
But Mrs B still disagreed and said the redress was insufficient. She therefore asked for a 
final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN01859712I know it will disappoint Mrs B but whilst  I understand she has cause to complain, I think 
MBFS has taken sufficient  action  to remedy the situation. Please let me explain. 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the delay and the subsequent storage costs
Ive reviewed the call records and contact notes that have been provided and whilst I 
understand that the 23 February  isnt directly referred to, I think Mrs Bs testimony  on this 
issue has been consistent and Im persuaded that it was most  likely  that a collection date of 
23 February had been  agreed.
MBFS were therefore late collecting the vehicle and I understand that this would have 
created some problems  for Mrs B as she wouldnt want to insure or store this car and her 
replacement vehicle.
But MBFS has offered £250  to compensate  Mrs B for the issues  shes experienced and in 
the circumstances I think  thats reasonable.
Of course,  if Mrs B incurred storage costs that she could evidence, Id think  MBFS should 
consider refunding them to her. But Im not persuaded by the evidence  Mrs B has provided. 
The invoice is editable and Mrs B has not been able to provide further evidence  to support 
her assertion  she paid these costs.
the refurbishment charges
The contract Mrs B entered into with MBFS said the vehicle  should be returned  in a good  
condition and an inspection was therefore conducted by a third party  company to identify any 
damage that was beyond  the guidelines for new cars provided by the BVRLA. There  is no 
requirement for the consumer to be present when these inspections are carried  out.
Ive reviewed the four areas of damage that have been examined in the report and Im 
satisfied, for the same  reasons that the adjudicator  has already set out in her third view of 
this matter, that each  of them represent  damage  that is chargeable under  the guidelines. Im 
therefore satisfied  that MBFS were  within their rights to charge all of the refurbishment costs  
that they did and Im further persuaded that theyve been reasonable, because  I note theyve  
been prepared  to reduce  these charges; removing the bumper spoilage charge and making 
a percentage  reduction elsewhere.
I dont think it would  therefore be fair to ask MBFS to take any further  action here. And 
overall, whilst  I realise they didnt  collect the car when  they should  have  and this has caused 
some inconvenience,  I think the compensation theyve offered and their approach to the 
refurbishment charges  has been reasonable. So I wont be asking them  to take any further  
action.
Ref: DRN01859713my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0185971