K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) taken  out in 2001. 
Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The PPI was part of a Total Mortgage  Protection  Plan that can also include life cover and 
critical illness cover. Mr Ws complaint is about  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
The PPI was taken  out with Mr Ws mortgage. From  what we know of how Halifax  sold PPI 
like this in meetings at the time,  I think  Halifax  would  normally  have given a choice about the 
PPI - and only added it if it was wanted.
Mr W says this didnt happen in his case. He says he wasnt  told about  the PPI. But the sale 
was well over fifteen  years ago. So, with that in mind, Mr Ws recollections on their own 
arent enough to make  me think Halifax didnt tell Mr W about the PPI. Or that Halifax  didnt 
give Mr W a choice about it like I think Halifax normally wouldve.
Also Mr W signed  a declaration that said he wanted the plan.  He thinks  he signed it without 
knowing what it was for. But what he signed says the plan could provide cover for things 
including accident,  sickness and unemployment.
Taking all this into account, on balance I think its likely Halifax  made it clear that Mr W didnt 
have to take the PPI - and he chose  to take it.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr W so it had to check the PPI was right for him. And 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think the PPI was right for him. 
For example Mr W wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI  so he 
could have claimed on the cover  if the circumstances arose.  And, from what hes told us, 
Mr W was only entitled to statutory sick pay or redundancy benefits  from his employer, so he 
seems to have had a need for cover. 
For a successful claim the PPI benefit  wouldve paid out for up to two years.  By helping  with 
the mortgage costs,  it would  give Mr W more security and help protect his savings  at what 
could be a difficult time if Mr W were to become unemployed  or too sick to work.
Mr W has told us he had an existing protection plan hed set up after he lost income due to 
injury. So he says he didnt need  the mortgage  PPI, and wouldnt knowingly have agreed to 
it. But he hasnt been able to us any evidence of this policy. This isnt surprising  given how 
long ago the sale was. But it means  I dont have anything to support what  Mr W recalls about  
having this cover in place  at the time. And if the cover was in place, I dont have enough  to 
Ref: DRN03183232say that the benefit level, waiting period or scope  of the cover made the PPI unnecessary.  
Or anything to suggest that Mr Ws existing  cover wouldve been made any less valuable as 
a result of him taking  the mortgage PPI. So on balance I dont have enough to say Mr Ws 
existing cover made it wrong  for Halifax to recommend him the mortgage PPI.
The information Halifax gave Mr W about  the PPI might not have been as full or clear as it 
shouldve been.  Mr W says he wasnt told anything  about  the PPI. I dont  know  exactly  what 
information Halifax did give Mr W. But, for the reasons Ive given above, it seems like the 
cover would have  been  useful for Mr W if something went  wrong. Ive nothing  to suggest  it 
wasnt affordable. And it looks  like Mr W chose to take it by signing to say he wanted  it  so 
it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Taking everything into account, I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have changed Mr Ws decision to take the cover.
Ive thought about all Mr Ws points, including what hes said about Halifax not mentioning 
his mortgage PPI when he first complained  to Halifax about PPI. And what Mr W has said 
about how he wouldve  relied on the expert adviser  rather than reading small print. But, for 
the reasons Ive already  given and in the light of all Ive said above, these points dont 
change my decision.
Mr W has mentioned  a work absence for which he claimed on his existing insurance. If Mr W 
thinks he shouldve had a claim  paid in the past on the mortgage PPI and wants  to pursue 
that past claim now, he would need  to approach the policy insurer about  that separately.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0318323