K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Inter Partner Assistance SA failed to diagnose  and fix her boiler  under 
her home emergency cover, causing her undue increased costs. 
background
Ms B has home emergency cover underwritten  by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA). 
Separate to this insurance policy, she also has an agreement  with AXA Assistance  UK Ltd 
(AXA) to provide an annual boiler service.  
One of these boiler services took place  on 5 September 2018 and was completed by a 
plumbing company,  which Ill refer to as D. This company was acting on behalf of AXA 
when conducting  the service. Ms Bs boiler  passed  this service and D didnt diagnose any 
immediate faults  at the time.  
In December 2018, Ms B contacted IPA as her gas bill had become more expensive  than 
normal. She was concerned that her boiler might be leaking, so IPA agreed to instruct  D to 
go and check it. 
D visited Ms Bs home on 14 December 2018  and found no such leak. But, it found a fault 
with the diverter  valve, which  was resulting in an increase in usage.  Ds engineer  concluded 
that this is commonly  caused by general  wear and tear and would explain Ms Bs increased 
energy bills. Based on this opinion, IPA agreed to log a claim under the home emergency 
policy.
A replacement diverter valve was sourced by IPA  but this took longer than expected so it 
paid Ms B £100  compensation. On 17 December 2018, the part had arrived so D                
re-attended Ms Bs home to fit it. Once  fitted,  the boiler was eventually  switched  back on. 
But, when this happened, a further  fault was found because a surge  in the amperage  on the 
boiler had blown the Printed Circuit Board (PCB). So, a replacement PCB was ordered. 
While this was waiting  to be delivered, Ms B noticed a leak in the roof of her property on     
21 December 2018. Such leaks in the roof are not covered under her home emergency 
cover, so a roofer attended (who was not acting upon the instruction of IPA.)  He found 
considerable wear  and tear in the roof, but also noticed a small leak coming from the boiler. 
IPA instructed D to revisit the property, to fit the new PCB and assess the leak.  It found that 
the leak wasnt coming from within the boiler,  but from the hot water outlet pipe. 
Because of this, the leak wouldnt have been  noticed during the annual service checks. Ds 
engineer advised that it was only a small leak that was causing  minimal (if any) damage and 
was contained.  And to replace the pipe would considerably  risk further damage to the boiler. 
IPA agreed to source a second  opinion,  so B Plumbing also inspected  the boiler.  Bs 
engineer agreed  with D that it wasnt worth the risk to attempt to repair  or replace the leaking  
pipe.
 
At this time, further faults were also identified with the electrical  wiring  in the boiler.  So, both 
D and Bs engineers concluded that the boiler  was beyond economical  repair. In light of this, 
IPA offered  Ms B the policy  benefit of a £250 contribution towards  the cost of a replacement 
boiler. 
Ref: DRN07876462Ms B was unhappy  about this and raised  a complaint that D ought to have picked up these 
faults sooner,  when  it serviced the boiler in September 2018. She argued that had it done  
so, she wouldnt now need  a new boiler.  IPA responded  to the complaint and said that, as its 
agent for the home emergency claim,  D had acted fairly. 
Ms B didnt agree, so she brought  the complaint to our service and one of our investigators 
looked into it. During the course of his investigation,  IPA submitted that the annual  service 
agreement is not something that our service can consider.  Our investigator agreed that we 
couldnt consider  the work carried out during the service of the boiler, as this was outside our 
jurisdiction. But, he thought we could look at the actions of IPA and its agents under the 
home emergency claim. And, having considered this, he found that IPA had handled the 
claim fairly  so he didnt  recommend that it increase its offer of compensation, nor its £250  
contribution to a replacement  boiler.  IPA accepted this recommendation. 
Ms B didnt agree. She submitted  that the version of events IPA and D have provided  are 
incorrect, and was unhappy that our investigator hadnt made enquiries to find counter 
evidence that supported  her position.  She argued  that D incorrectly  diagnosed the issue with 
her boiler to start with. And maintained  that IPA should cover the cost of her increased 
energy bills and make a greater contribution  to the cost of a new boiler.
Because Ms B didnt  agree, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its my judgment that IPA 
hasnt acted unfairly here. Ill explain why. 
As the regulator,  The Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) sets out the jurisdiction of our 
service in the DISP  Rules part of the FCA Handbook. One of the requirements of DISP  is 
that our service can only consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission of a firm 
carrying out a regulated  activity (or some other activity expressly listed  in DISP 2.3.1). 
Its not in dispute  that the annual boiler service is an additional product to the home  
emergency cover, which isnt automatically included unless opted  into. Indeed, in the policy 
booklet, the annual boiler service is described  as Additional Cover.  Therefore, the two are 
separate agreements. IPA has submitted that our service is unable  to consider Ms Bs 
annual boiler service agreement because its not a regulated activity. 
An activity  is a regulated activity if its specified  in The Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (Regulated Activities)  Order 2001 (RAO). Part II of the RAO specifies "effecting" and 
"carrying out" a contract of insurance  as regulated activities.  
The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual indicates that the best description of what  
constitutes a contract of insurance comes  from the authority of the Court of Appeal,  in its 
decision in the case of Prudential Insurance Co v Inland Revenue Commissioners [1904] 2 
K.B. 658. This case, amongst  other  things, decided  the essentials of an insurance contract. 
In summary,  it considered  this to be that an insurer, in return  for prior payment (often 
referred to as a premium), provides the insured with the service it agreed to undertake  
when the contract  was concluded  in the event of the materialisation of a risk it agreed to 
cover. And, this risk is a defined event in the contract and has an occurrence which is 
uncertain or sudden. 
Ref: DRN07876463Having considered the annual boiler  service  policy  terms, Im not satisfied that it qualifies as 
covering an uncertain  event. I say this because the terms  set out that its a safety  and 
efficiency check which is booked in at a mutually agreed time, once a year.  So, it offers  a 
benefit to cover an expected event that is scheduled  on an annual basis. With this in mind,  I 
must conclude that its not a contract of insurance  and, therefore, isnt a regulated  activity  
that is within our services jurisdiction. 
In light of this, Im unable  to consider  the workmanship (or lack of workmanship) that took 
place during the annual  service performed on the boiler on 5 September 2018. Rather, I can 
only look at what happened when Ms B made  a claim on her home emergency insurance 
cover with IPA. That undoubtedly has all the key features of a contract of insurance, such  as 
the fortuitous  occurrence of a peril that is wholly contrary to the interests of the insured. It 
follows that, although D acted as an agent for both AXA and IPA  I can only consider the 
acts or omissions of IPA, and D as its agent,  under the home emergency cover. 
Essentially, this means that Im unable to comment on whether  D, while  conducting the 
boiler service in September 2018 (as an agent for AXA), ought to have found the faults that 
subsequently came to light.  It follows that I cant safely  conclude whether an earlier  
diagnosis of these  faults could have  prevented  the boiler ending  up being in a condition  
thats beyond  economical repair. Nor can I say whether IPAs acts or omissions resulted in 
Ms Bs energy bills being more expensive than usual  therefore,  I dont require  IPA to cover  
these increased costs.  
Following the start of the home emergency claim, D spent a considerable amount of time 
inspecting Ms Bs boiler over a number  of different occasions. Indeed, it completed at least 
two repairs, i.e. the diverter valve and PCB  so it strikes me that its engineers had ample  
time and opportunity to correctly diagnose any faults. These engineers appear to be suitably 
qualified and experienced;  and there  are no obvious mistakes or inconstancies contained in 
the findings that they reported  back  to IPA. 
In any event, IPA agreed the instruction of another engineer, from a separate  company, to 
give a second  opinion  that ultimately  agreed  with D. Similarly, Im not persuaded that their 
conclusions were based on anything other than a reasoned  opinion   so I see no reason to 
doubt the credibility of their findings.  
On the contrary,  the fact that two industry  professionals independently reached the same 
conclusion adds greater  weight to the current diagnosis that the boiler  is beyond  economical 
repair. In the circumstances, Ive seen no compelling argument that makes me doubt the 
evidential value of these opinions. Indeed, Ms B has produced no comparable  expert  
evidence to contradict  it. In light of this, I cant safely conclude  that its unfair  for IPA to rely 
upon this information. 
Ms B has argued that conversations took place  where one of the engineers corroborated her 
version of events. I understand this happened  indirectly, i.e. an engineer passed comment  to 
a third-party insurer which  is connected to Ms Bs home emergency cover  with IPA. Ms B 
has submitted that she found this out from the third-party insurer  and, therefore, this service 
ought to have asked it to provide a statement  to that effect. In other words, she asked for a 
statement to be considered as hearsay  evidence. 
Ref: DRN07876464However, hearsay   even if admissible in evidence   is usually regarded as weak and of 
very limited probative value. It certainly  doesnt  normally outweigh  independent  expert 
opinion which has been corroborated by a comparable expert. So, on balance,  it strikes me 
as probable that the documentary evidence already provided holds  greater evidential  weight 
than the reported, second-hand statements of a third party who has no direct  interest  or 
involvement in this case. Therefore, for the avoidance of doubt, I do not see the need to 
approach the third-party insurer for confirmation of what might have been discussed  in order  
to reach  a fair and reasonable outcome. 
IPA has offered Ms B the benefit of a contribution payment, according  to the policy  term 
which states that; If, in the insurers opinion, your boiler is beyond  economic repair, the 
insurer will contribute  a maximum of £250  towards  the cost of you replacing  it with a new 
boiler. So Im satisfied  IPA has made  Ms B reasonably aware of this benefit  that shes 
entitled to and has therefore  acted  fairly  in this sense. 
Its my understanding that IPA has already paid Ms B £100 compensation. Considering the 
time it took to source the necessary part for the boiler, Im satisfied that this is a reasonable 
amount of compensation in the circumstances  so I dont require IPA to increase it. Overall, 
its my judgment that IPA has acted fairly here,  so I dont  require it to do anything  differently 
for this complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Inter Partner Assistance  SA has offered  to pay Ms B £250 towards the condemned boiler 
(subject to any relevant  policy  terms and conditions). I regard that as a fair settlement of the 
claim  so, if its not already done so, I require IPA to pay the sum due under the insurance 
contract within 28 days of receiving notice of Ms Bs acceptance of my decision. 
Ive concluded  that IPA are not required to add interest to this sum, should it become  
payable. Because,  as per the policy terms and conditions, the £250 can be claimed by 
providing a copy  of the receipt for a replacement boiler. Therefore, this benefit under the 
policy is on the contingent that Ms B decides  to replace her existing boiler, as its ultimately 
Ms Bs choice whether to do so.
Ms B should note that accepting  my decision will compromise her legal rights against IPA, so 
shell need to decide whether to accept the decision/offer and be bound  by it; or reject  and 
preserve her rights  but with no guarantee that IPA will still honour  the offer. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.  
Matthew Belcher 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0787646