K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Covea Insurance Plc wont pay his home insurance claim for theft, has 
cancelled his policy and also demanded repayment of an interim payment it made.
background
In October  2016 Mr S made  a claim to Covea following  a burglary of his home. He submitted 
invoices for repairs to windows. Covea made an interim payment of £1,092  in respect  of the 
damaged windows. Mr S drew up a loss list. He also provided photos of some of the 
jewellery that had been stolen. Covea was concerned  that Mr S had had a high value theft 
but appeared to be substantially underinsured. And that the photos  hed provided  appeared 
to have been taken after the burglary. Covea appointed a special investigator who 
interviewed Mr S. 
Mr S initially  (according to the investigation  report)  confirmed  that the photos were  of the lost 
or damaged items and that they had been  taken some time before. Covea reviewed the 
metadata. There were  a number of photos which could  have  had their metadata  altered by 
photo editing software. But one particular photo, of a gold bracelet  was clearly created after 
the burglary. This was put to Mr S who said at first that it might have been taken from the 
internet as a representation. He later advised by email that the photo was of an identical 
bracelet his daughter still had and that the photos  hed provided  werent  actually photos  of 
the missing items but representations of them. He was asked to produce the original digital 
images of the other photos but wasnt able to do so.
Covea advised  Mr S in May 2017 that it considered that he was in breach of the fraud 
condition in his policy. It said he had dishonestly attempted  to claim for an item which  hadnt 
been stolen. It said it wouldnt  pay the claim and was cancelling his policy back to the date of 
the claim.  It also said it would be reclaiming the £1,092  already  paid out.
Mr S said that the special  investigator reported back wrongly  and didnt reflect what  he said 
 which  was that the photos were not of the actual items stolen but representations, as hed 
been advised by the police. He also complained about the length of time the investigation  
took particularly  that he had had to do chasing up by phone and email. He also pointed  out 
that it was unfair not to pay the claim just because of one item.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Covea had acted fairly,  in light of his 
changes of explanation for the date of the photo. She noted that Covea had been 
responsible for some  delay in investigating the case but had explained this as being due to 
the illness of the investigator and apologised for this.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For an insurer to allege fraud by its policyholder is a serious matter.  It means  that the 
cancellation of the policy will be registered on an insurance database and the fraud  may be 
registered on a fraud  database. For that reason we take the view that there must be strong  
evidence to show that it is most likely  that Mr S breached  the fraud condition in the policy 
before we could  say whether Coveas  action was reasonable.
Ref: DRN08895072Mr S sent in a number  of photos. Covea  wasnt able to tell from the metadata  on number  of 
these when the originals were  taken as the photos had been edited. Mr S hasnt provided 
the original digital photos. Covea relies on the evidence  of one particular photo which hadnt 
been edited. This photo was clearly  taken after the claim. It said that Mr S had initially said 
the photo in question was of the item stolen and then changed his explanation when 
confronted with evidence of when the photo  was taken.
Mr S sent the photos with an email saying  I have attached photographs and a jeweller's 
valuation to support  this claim. According  to the special investigators  report Mr S 
confirmed the images were taken by him of the claimed objects and were taken years ago. 
The investigator then discussed this photo  with Mr S and said He specifically confirmed, 
twice, that the image above is an image of the item which he is claiming for as part of the 
current claim and that the image was created within his household  That investigator  then 
went onto state  that he confronted Mr S who said there  must  be an error, and then said the 
photos were put together as a representation,  not as actual proof.  Mr S later confirmed by 
email that the photo was taken after the burglary and was of an identical bracelet in a set.
Mr S wasnt  able to produce the other original photos and reiterated  his account that the 
photos were never intended to be proof but were  representations", as advised by the police. 
I think Covea was justified  in having  concerns about  the photo.  Mr S didnt advise that the 
photos were representations and told the investigator specifically that they had been  taken 
some time previously and were of the items  in question. I think  it unlikely that the police 
would tell Mr S to provide representations  of the items  they would be well aware of the 
sort of evidence insurers require. Whilst Mr S criticises the special investigator, I think  it 
unlikely that he would  seriously misrepresent Mr Ss position as far as an allegation of fraud  
is concerned. So I think Covea acted reasonably in taking the view that Mr S had made  a 
deliberate misrepresentation and thus was in breach of the fraud condition  in his policy.
I note that there was some delay. This was between the meeting with Mr S on 19 December 
2016 and the report, which was drawn up on 13 February  2017.  During  that time Mr S 
attempted to contact  the special investigator  and was unsuccessful.  I understand that this 
was because of illness on the part of that investigator. That was unfortunate but overall  I 
wont make  an award in respect of that. Special  investigations do take some  time as they 
require the careful  review  of evidence. Also the Christmas period intervened.
Unfortunately, if Covea is satisfied that there  was a fraud in this case  that affects the whole 
claim, even  though it only relates to one photo  of one item. I would observe that there  were  
concerns about  the other photos  it was just not possible to be clear about the metadata  
without the original digital photos.  The fraud  condition entitles Covea to reject  the claim  and 
to cancel the policy and also to recover any money paid out. I cant  say on the evidence that 
thats unfair.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and make no award  against Covea Insurance  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Ref: DRN08895073Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0889507