K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Nationwide Building  Society  (NBS) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs G bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a loan. Mrs G says she 
applied for the loan and PPI policy in branch. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £959.19  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 60-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan The monthly 
loan repayment  was £116.26  with the PPI costing  an additional £22.31 making  the total 
monthly repayment £138.57.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs G for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mrs Gs monthly  loan repayment  for up to 
the remaining  term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months  in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mrs G was self-employed as a programmer. She has told us she was not 
entitled to any sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying her loan should she be 
unable to work. Mrs G hasnt told us of any redundancy benefits she would have been 
entitled to. Mrs G has said she was in good health at the time of the sale.  
NBS has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2000.
Mrs Gs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Gs representative says:
NBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs G wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Gs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NBS should  have told 
Mrs G about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
Ref: DRN08016312The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs G and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs complaint
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2000. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN08016313I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NBS at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Gs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any 
applicable rule of law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so NBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If NBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs G with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether NBS gave Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs G, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs G suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs G and NBS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs G know she had a choice?
NBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN08016314NBS has given us a copy of the personal  loan application that has been  completed by hand 
and signed and dated by Mrs G. That application  has a separate section entitled 
PROTECTING YOUR REPAYMENTS  followed  by two tick boxes  one marked  Yes and 
the other marked No. And I can see that the Yes box has been ticked  and the section 
signed separately from the loan application itself by Mrs G. 
And subsequent to Mrs Gs application  she was given a copy  of the loan agreement  of which 
I have been given a copy. The loan agreement gives details  of the loan and costs  and has a 
separate column entitled Optional  Credit Insurance. This agreement needed to be signed 
before the loan was agreed. So, I think this gave Mrs G a further opportunity  to decide  
whether she wanted  to take the PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs G knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did NBS provide advice?
NBS says that it didnt  provide advice during the sale, and Mrs G hasnt said either  way 
whether advice was provided. Looking at what happened when NBS sold Mrs G the PPI, Im 
not persuaded that it provided  advice. I say this because I havent seen any evidence  that 
NBS sought details of Mrs Gs wider financial circumstances to assess suitability of the 
policy or that it gave  her a tailored recommendation to take the PPI. And Mrs G hasnt  given 
me any alternative recollections to consider and that would make me think differently.
This means  NBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs G. Instead,  it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Mrs G to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs G was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs G was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because this was set out on the credit agreement  she signed. And while I dont 
know if anything was discussed about the PPI when Mrs G applied  in branch, I think Mrs G 
knew that the single premium  being  added to the loan was £959.19, the interest  added  to 
the premium was £379.41, the total cost was £1,338.60 and the monthly cost was £22.31  
(as this information was, in my view, sufficiently  clear on the loan agreement  Mrs G signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mrs G agreed  to take out the policy. 
So, I dont think NBS gave Mrs G sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN08016315Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Gs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Gs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Gs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs G about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Gs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs G has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that NBS ought to have done  either. 
What effect did NBSs shortcomings  have on Mrs G? To what extent did Mrs G suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that NBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mrs G. So, 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs G suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mrs G would 
have still taken out the policy, had NBS done  things  properly. 
Mrs G says she would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs G had to weigh up in her own minds  the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mrs G chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So, what  Mrs G thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs G has suffered  any loss or detriment.  
As Ive already  said, while Mrs G might  not have  been  clearly given the cost information 
during the application  itself, the information Mrs G was given in the credit agreement  which  
followed the application  and which required her signature before the loan the PPI started   
Ref: DRN08016316was clear. So overall, Im not persuaded Mrs G would have found the cost unacceptable  if 
he had been given all of the cost information  when she completed the loan application. If she 
had found it unacceptable, I would have expected her to have raised  this on receipt of the 
credit agreement which set this out clearly to her.
Im not persuaded NBS made clear exactly what Mrs G would  get back  in return  in the event 
she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Gs expectations about what the 
policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet her loan payments) 
were significantly  different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs G thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs G knew  about for 
which Mrs G had received treatment or advice during the 12 months preceding the 
start date of the policy and which recurred during the first 12 months after the start 
date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs G 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs G be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job bearing in mind her experience,  education or training 
reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs G pause  for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs G from taking out the policy. 
The evidence about Mrs Gs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mrs G was self-employed  when  the PPI was 
taken out, it wouldnt  have been any harder  for her to make a claim if she became 
unemployed than someone who was permanently employed. And I havent  seen  any 
evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs G 
hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical  conditions. So, I still think  she had some good  
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs G would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs G had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs G was unable (through disability) to carry on her 
own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN08016317The policy did provide  a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled  early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Mrs G decided to repay the loan early and cancel the policy. And I understand 
that Mrs G did repay her loan early  and received a pro-rata refund at the time.  
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs G would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences were  Mrs G made  redundant, or unable  to work through accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mrs G would  have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs G would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs G 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs G believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs G in the position  she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.
So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude 
NBS should pay Mrs G compensation,  as that would  put her in a better  position  than she 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Ref: DRN08016318Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Gs representative  says a court might take if it 
were to find NBS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs G in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0801631