K822xcomplaint
Mr T and Ms L complain  about an HSBC UK Bank  Plc loan they took out in 2003. They say 
the loan should not have been sold, and that HSBC hasnt paid them enough  compensation.
background 
Mr T and Ms L took out an HBSC loan in 2003.  It had a 15 year term, and was fixed  for 10 
years. 
Mr T and Ms L used the loan towards  the purchase  of a property. They used part of the 
property as their home, and let the remainder  to a company theyd set up. For the next few 
years, the company traded from the property.
Mr T and Ms L later decided that they no longer  wanted to run a business together.  
Following court proceedings, they sold the property to a third party in 2012.  Mr T and Ms L 
used the money  they received from the third party  to repay the loans  they had secured on 
the property, including the break cost of around  £4,000. 
In 2016, HSBC contacted Mr T to say it was reviewing some of its past business.  It offered to 
review the fixed rate loan it had sold to Mr T and Ms L in 2003. Mr T agreed  to the review.
HSBC ultimately decided it should have  sold Mr T and Ms L a loan fixed over 5 years rather 
than 10 years. It offered to pay Mr T and Ms L the difference between the cost of those two 
loans, plus interest. Its offer came to just under  £50,000.
Mr T and Ms L accepted  HSBCs  view that they would have taken a 5 year fix rather  than a 
10 year fix if HSBC had made  no errors. But they thought  HSBC  should pay them  
considerably more compensation.
In 2017, HSBC rejected the majority of Mr T and Ms Ls claims for consequential losses. It 
offered £1,500 in respect of bank charges, but it said it should  not have to pay the other 
losses claimed. Mr T was unhappy, and referred  the complaint to our service. Ms L later 
joined the complaint,  and signed our complaint form.
Mr T and Ms L would like HSBC to:
Refund all bank  charges it applied to all of their accounts between  2008 and 2011, 
including those  on short term loans taken  out at around the time of the sale;
Either: 
oPay Mr T and Ms L compensation for the loss they suffered when their 
business was sold in 2012 (which  Mr T estimates  at a minimum of £100,000), 
or
oPay Mr T compensation for the loss of the profit he would have received if he 
had continued  to run the business  from 2012  onwards (which Mr T estimates 
at a minimum of £250,000);
Pay Mr T compensation of £1,000 a month, calculated from February 2007 until the 
date this complaint  is settled, for the distress and inconvenience  this matter has 
caused him;
Ref: DRN04974892Refund the legal costs  they incurred in pursuing  this matter (around  £10,000  to 
£15,000); and
Pay them compensation for any additional  tax liabilities they incur  as a result  of this 
matter.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint, but he thought HSBCs offer was fair. 
Mr T disagreed, so the matter was referred  to me.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2019. I said:
Here, theres no need for me to decide whether HSBC has done anything wrong. Its 
obvious that it has. Everybody, including HSBC, accepts that it should  not have sold 
Mr T and Ms L a 10 year fix in 2003.  
All parties  also agree that HSBC should have sold a loan with a 5 year fix instead. 
Mr T and Ms L have already agreed  compensation for the direct losses caused  by 
the sale of the 10 year fixed  rate loan,  so I dont need to consider that issue any 
further.
The dispute  is now about the consequential  losses that Mr T and Ms L say they have 
suffered. For this part of their complaint, I need to look at whether the banks failures 
actually caused  these losses. And if they did, I also need to ask whether its fair to 
hold the bank responsible  for the losses. To do this, Id need to ask whether the bank 
could reasonably foresee that its failures would result in losses like these. In other  
words, Id need to be satisfied that the losses werent too remote  from the banks 
failings.
I also note that this complaint is brought jointly by Mr T and Ms L, so any award I do 
make will be made jointly to both of them. I cannot  consider any dispute between  
them as to how that award should  be apportioned.
bank charges
Mr T told us that he believes HSBC agreed to pay back all the bank charges the 
business had incurred.  HSBC  has not paid all the bank charges he identified  and 
so he is concerned that both our adjudicator and HSBC may be questioning his 
integrity.
I think the underlying  problem  here may be confusion  about what HSBC  agreed to 
do. I can see that Mr T and Ms L have been involved in several  businesses,  both 
individually and together. Some  of those businesses had very close ties  for 
example, referring  clients to each other,  or trading from the same  property.  But 
legally speaking, the limited companies  Mr T and Ms L were involved  with were each 
separate businesses.  I understand that HSBC is prepared to refund the bank charges 
incurred by the business making this complaint, but not the bank charges incurred by 
related businesses. 
I acknowledge that Mr T thinks it is unfair  for HSBC not to refund all bank charges 
charged to all of his businesses. But whether or not that is fair, I have no power  to 
make an award in respect of bank charges incurred by the related businesses. There 
are two reasons  for that:
Ref: DRN04974893I only have the legal  power to make an award  for losses  suffered by the 
person (or people) making a complaint. The complainants  here are Mr T and 
Ms L. The limited companies  are not complainants  and they cannot join the 
complaint, because they were not HSBCs customer in respect of the loan 
complained about.
The limited companies have been  dissolved.  That means they no longer exist,  
and nobody has authority to act on their behalf.  Neither Mr T nor Ms L would 
be legally entitled to accept any award on behalf of the limited companies.  
I understand HSBC  has offered to refund the bank charges Mr T and Ms L paid 
personally. Since I cant ask it to also refund  the bank charges paid by associated 
businesses, I think its offer of £1,500 in respect  of bank charges is fair.
I am not clear on whether  HSBC has paid that £1,500  and I ask it to confirm the 
position in its response  to this provisional decision. If HSBC has not already paid, 
then I intend to order it to refund £1,500 plus interest  at 8% per year simple. Interest 
should run from the date the bank charge was incurred up until the date HSBC 
settles this complaint.
loss on sale of business
I dont know exactly when  Mr T and Ms L decided  that they no longer wanted to run a 
business together, but theyd certainly made  that decision  by the end of 2010. Mr T 
says the financial  pressure caused  by the fixed rate loan was a significant factor in 
the breakdown  of his relationship with Ms L. Ms L has not commented on that matter,  
so I do not have her views.
The practical effect of Mr T and Ms Ls decision to stop working together  was that 
either one of them had to buy out the other,  or their business and the associated 
property had to be sold. HSBC appears to believe that Ms L did not want  to carry on 
with the business, so the property either had to be sold to Mr T or to a third party. 
Based on the limited  information I have, I think it is unlikely that HSBCs error in 
selling a loan with a 10 year fix rather than a 5 year fix caused Mr T and Ms L to 
decide to sell the property. I agree with our adjudicator that it is more  likely that their 
decision was based on changes in their personal  circumstances.  So, I dont think it 
would be fair for me to make an award for this head  of claim.
In any event, even  if I was satisfied that HSBCs  errors had caused Mr T and Ms L to 
choose to sell the property, there isnt enough  evidence  to show that the sale caused 
Mr T and Ms L to suffer  a loss.
According to HSBCs  records,  in 2012 there was a disagreement between  Mr T and 
Ms L about the market value of the property. HSBC appears to have believed  that 
Ms L was prepared to accept £625,000,  but Mr T thought the property was worth 
£775,000. I understand there  was originally a court order allowing  the sale at 
£775,000, but no buyer  could be found at that price.  There was further court  action, 
which ultimately allowed  a sale at a lower price.
Ref: DRN04974894Ive seen the valuation Mr T obtained  in April 2010,  when surveyors estimated the 
value of the property at between £650,000  and £725,000 (depending on whether  the 
business continued to operate).  That valuation was some time before the eventual  
sale. Property prices do not always go up, and I dont think  the valuation is enough to 
show that the property was sold at an undervalue.
Overall, I havent seen anything to suggest  that the property was sold for less than its 
market value. If the property had been worth £775,000,  then presumably it would 
have been possible  to find a buyer willing to pay an amount much closer  to that price.
loss of profits
Mr T accepts that he cannot claim compensation for loss of profits  after 2012 as well 
as making a claim for loss on the sale of the business in 2012.  He hasnt given much 
detail about his claim for loss of profits, because he felt his claim for loss on sale was 
easier to substantiate.
However, here Im only looking at losses caused by HSBCs  2003  error. In other 
words, Im looking  at losses caused  by HSBCs  decision to sell a 10 year fix rather 
than a 5 year fix in 2003. Im not satisfied that HSBCs 2003 error caused  Mr T to be 
unable to buy out Ms L nearly ten years later.
In any event, the payment HSBC has already made included  interest  calculated  at 
8% simple  per year on the difference between the costs  of Mr T and Ms Ls actual 10 
year fix and the cost of an alternative  5 year fix. In my view,  that interest award gave 
them some compensation  for having  been  deprived of the use of that money. To 
consider an award  beyond this  in respect  of loss of profit  or any other issue  I 
would need to be persuaded that any loss suffered was greater than the 8% simple 
interest HSBC has already paid. I dont think Mr T or Ms L have shown that their 
losses exceed that simple  interest.
ill health and stress
Mr T says the banks mistake caused him significant  distress  and inconvenience, and 
impacted his health. He said the costs  of the loan were a significant  factor  in his 
decision to move abroad for work   which itself contributed to the breakdown of his 
relationship with Ms L, and meant  he saw his family much  less frequently  than he 
wanted to. Mr T suggests HSBC should pay him £1,000 per month,  from February 
2007 until the date the complaint  is settled, to compensate him for that distress.
I fully accept that both Mr T and Ms L have  had a very difficult  time. The financial 
stresses associated with the loan cant have helped matters. But I dont think  I can 
fairly make the finding that HSBCs errors forced  Mr T to move abroad.  Like our 
adjudicator, I think its likely  that other factors were more significant. For example, I 
understand Mr T is an experienced member  of a relatively small industry,  and that his 
skills are in demand worldwide. I dont  think it is surprising that non-UK organisations 
made him offers of employment that he found  attractive  but I dont think  I can say 
that HSBCs error caused him to take up those offers.
I am not clear on exactly why Mr T has requested a payment of £1,000 per month. 
However, I understand £1,000 is the approximate amount he sent home  each month 
whilst working abroad. I appreciate that if his and Ms Ls loan had been cheaper,  he 
Ref: DRN04974895might have needed to send  less money  home. But I consider that arguments  about 
whether £1,000 a month (or some  other  amount)  would  have  changed hands  but for 
HSBCs error are arguments about financial loss, rather than arguments about  
compensation for distress.  HSBC has already refunded the additional amounts Mr T 
and Ms L paid for their actual loan (over and above the money  they should have paid 
for a loan with a 5 year fix). If I award  £1,000 per month in addition,  then I would be 
compensating them for the same loss twice. 
Looking at all the circumstances  here,  I think  there were a number of other matters in 
Mr T and Ms Ls financial and personal  lives that would have been  distressing. I dont 
think HSBCs  errors  in respect of the fixed rate loan were wholly or mainly 
responsible for that distress, and so I dont  think it would  be fair for me to make an 
award.
professional advice
The ombudsman offers a free and informal service  to resolve  disputes.  To decide 
whether a bank  has handled a complaint fairly,  we look at the facts  of the case  not 
at how well the complaint  is presented. So we dont usually require a bank to pay a 
customers costs for professional help in bringing their complaint here.
I cant see anything in Mr T and Ms Ls circumstances that suggest they werent able 
to bring their complaint to HSBC and then to our service without professional help.  
Unless I receive further evidence to the contrary, I dont intend to make an award  for 
professional fees.
tax liability
Mr T has suggested  he might have suffered an additional tax liability as a result  of 
HSBCs redress  payment.  But he hasnt  provided any figures to quantify  that claimed 
loss.
Mr T and Ms L almost  certainly paid additional tax in respect of the year they 
received HSBCs basic redress  payment. But that doesnt automatically mean that 
they paid more tax overall.
The effect of HSBCs  error was to artificially depress Mr T and Ms Ls profits  whilst 
the loan was outstanding  (because their actual loan was more expensive  than the 
loan they should have  taken). That means  Mr T and Ms L paid tax on the artificially 
depressed profits they actually made, and not on the higher profits they would have 
made if theyd taken a fixed  rate loan over a shorter term.
In other  words, between  2003 and 2012 Mr T and Ms L paid less tax than they would 
otherwise have done. Then they paid more tax than they would otherwise have done 
in the year in which HSBC  paid redress. In many cases, those  two things balance out 
 and overall, the complainant has paid broadly  the same (or less) tax than they 
would have done if the bank had made  no errors. Unless Mr T or Ms L provide further 
evidence showing that their personal circumstances  mean they have lost out, I do not 
intend to make an award in respect  of tax.
Ref: DRN04974896my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that the offer HSBC has made is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
If HSBC has not already  done so, I intend  to order it to refund £1,500 of bank 
charges, plus interest at 8% per year simple. Interest should be calculated from the 
date the charge was incurred up until the date of settlement.
If HSBC has already paid that amount, then I do not intend to order it to pay anything 
more
HSBC replied to say it had not yet refunded the £1,500 of bank charges to Mr T and Ms L. It 
had no other  comments.
Mr T did not accept my provisional decision. Briefly, he said my simplistic view is that if the 
business were not burdened  with £30,000  interest, it would have given me a much  different 
perspective not only on the business but also on my own personal financial situation.  I may 
indeed have made a number of different life changing decisions. 
Mr T went on to explain his concerns  about  the conduct and reputation of both HSBC  and 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments from the outset to decide whats  
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Im sorry  to further disappoint  Mr T and Ms L, but having looked at everything again I have 
come to the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision.  I now confirm  those 
conclusions as final. I remain satisfied  that HSBC should refund £1,500 of bank charges to 
Mr T and Ms L, plus interest  at 8% per year simple. I make  no other award.
Mr T is clearly very unhappy  about the way the Financial Ombudsman Service has looked at 
his complaint. Theres very little I can say to reassure him on that point, but I do want  to say 
that my findings are not intended as an attack  on his integrity. I entirely accept  that he and 
Ms L have  had an extremely tough few years. Working  abroad   so far away from his family 
 was obviously very difficult for him. The job he was doing was itself difficult  and 
distressing, and he made considerable sacrifices in carrying  it out. 
When I say that I dont think it would be fair for me to order  HSBC to pay compensation to 
Mr T for his distress, I dont mean that I think he suffered no distress.  Instead, I mean that 
Im not satisfied that his distress was caused  by HSBCs errors. For the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision, I dont think his decision to work abroad was caused  by HSBCs 
mistake in selling  him a loan with a rate fixed over 10 years rather than 5.  
Similarly, I dont  think HSBCs mistake caused Mr T and Ms L to choose to sell their 
business. I think other factors were more  important. And in any event, as I explained in my 
provisional decision I dont think their property was sold at below market value.
Ref: DRN04974897I acknowledge that Mr T has concerns about HSBCs evidence. Ive considered  his concerns 
carefully, but I dont  share them. I am satisfied that HSBC has properly co-operated with my 
investigation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I order HSBC UK Bank  Plc to refund £1,500 of bank charges to Mr T 
and Ms L. I also order HSBC UK Plc to pay interest  on that amount, at a rate of 8% per year 
simple. Interest should run from the date the charge  was incurred up until the date HSBC  
makes payment. If HSBC  considers that it is legally required to deduct tax from any interest, 
it must  send  a tax deduction certificate  to Mr T and Ms L.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 June  2019. 
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0497489