K820x#14complaint
Mr V has complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited  increased  his premium on his 
motor policy  due to a non-fault claim.
background
Mr V was involved  in an accident  in January 2018. He said this meant he had to pay an 
increased premium before  the end of his policy year. 
Skyfire said the premium increase was due to the fact Mr V changed  his car on the policy.
Mr V remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator  didnt think Mr Vs 
premium has increased due to the accident,  it was as Skyfire said due to the fact Mr V 
changed his car.
Mr V remained unhappy  so his complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Mr Vs insurance policy year began in December 2017. This accident happened  in January 
2018. Insurers dont  increase any premium  as a result of any accident until the next policy  
year, which would not have been until December 2018. So Im satisfied Mr Vs premium 
increase was not because of this accident  in January 2018.
Insurers generally can only change  the amount of premium to be paid in the middle  of the 
policy year,  if the policyholder changes the car on the policy as in buys  a new one. This is 
what happened here. Mr V bought a new car in May 2018 and wanted that car to be insured 
instead of his old one, on this policy.
When that happens, the insurer  must rate the risk the car has on the policy.  Sometimes  this 
means the premium  increases and sometimes it could mean the premium decreases.  Mr Vs 
new car increased the risk, which meant he had to pay more. Theres nothing wrong with 
that, as its very normal for the premium to change if you change  the car on the policy.
Skyfire showed  us how it calculated the premium. I cant  share  that with Mr V as its 
commercially sensitive  information and we publish our final decisions. But Ive checked it 
and Skyfire increased Mr Vs premium  because of his new car and it did so in accordance  
with its own underwriting  criteria.
Therefore it didnt nothing wrong.
.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Ref: DRN08265322Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0826532