K820x#14complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with the amount  paid by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) to 
settle a claim for theft under her contents  insurance policy.
background
Mrs A made a claim to RSA after some jewellery was stolen  from her shed. She said the 
items were worth about £5,000.
RSA accepted the claim. Its loss adjuster told Mrs A that it would settle the claim for £5,000. 
The loss adjuster overlooked the fact that there was a policy  limit of £2,500  in respect  of 
articles kept in any one outbuilding. RSA said the loss adjuster immediately retracted the 
incorrect offer and apologised. 
Mrs A complained to RSA. She thought it should  pay her the amount originally offered, being  
£5,000. RSA apologised for the mistake  but said it would only pay her £2,500  since  that was 
her policy limit.
Mrs A brought her complaint to this service.  Our investigator didnt uphold it. She thought 
RSA had treated  Mrs A fairly  by paying up to the policy limit in respect of her claim. 
As Mrs A didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I consider that the 
settlement made by RSA was fair, so I wont be requiring it to do anything  further.
Mrs As policy provides cover of up to £5,000 for contents stolen from an outbuilding or 
garage but with a maximum  of £2,500 for any one outbuilding. Mrs As jewellery was being  
stored in one shed,  so the maximum she was covered for was £2,500. 
RSA has paid that amount. Under  the policy terms I dont think  theyre required to do any 
more than that. Mrs A says she was told shed be paid £5,000  and shed like RSA to stand 
by that. I accept that it would be disappointing  for Mrs A to be told shed receive  £5,000 and 
then to learn that in fact the settlement would be half that amount. But I understand the 
mistake was realised immediately  and so its not as if Mrs A had time to rely on the fact that 
shed receive £5,000  and had changed her position  in reliance on that settlement. Although 
it would  be annoying,  I dont think it justifies any more than an apology  which  has already 
been made. So I dont think this mistake  would justify RSA having  to pay Mrs A twice  as 
much as shes entitled to under her policy.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
Ref: DRN06598102Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0659810