K820x#14complaint
This complaint is brought by Miss N, one of the executors of the estate of the late Mr N. She 
complains that Santander  UK Plc wont  refund money taken out of Mr Ns account. Miss N 
says cheques were forged and ATM withdrawals made that Mr N wouldnt have authorised.  
She wants Santander to refund the money to her late fathers estate.
background
The details of whats alleged  to have happened  here are well-known to both Miss N and 
Santander. So I hope both parties will accept the following as a summary  of the issues  and 
problems:
Mr N wasnt very well and for a period of time broke off ties with most of his immediate 
family;
During this period it seems Mr N re-established  a relationship with a third party, whom Ill 
refer to as Ms S;
Mr N gave Ms S power  of attorney to manage  his financial affairs;
After Mr N died in 2014, a settlement was agreed between the executors of Mr Ns estate 
and Ms S, whereby the latter received  a payment  out of the estate;
Some time later Miss N noted  what she thought was some unusual activity  that had taken 
place on her late fathers Santander account  in 2012 and 2013  amounting to nearly 
£20,000;
Miss N says some  cheques were  forged, and the signatures on them do not look like her 
late fathers,  believing them  to have been written and signed by Ms S (and there are 
some ATM withdrawals during this time, which were identified later,  that Miss N doesnt 
believe Mr N would  have made or authorised);
Miss N contacted  Santander but the bank said it wouldnt  refund the money;
Santander said there was no reason to believe  the cheques were unauthorised and 
pointed to Mr Ns health and how this might affect his signature as well as the relationship  
with Ms S, including the power  of attorney;
The bank said this was more likely to be a civil matter between  the executors of the 
estate and Ms S (if the settlement agreement had been concluded on the basis of 
incorrect information); and
Miss N raised the matter with the police but, after interviewing Ms S, they decided  not to 
take the matter any further.
Miss N wasnt  happy with Santanders response.  So she contacted us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into things for Miss N. But he concluded there wasnt enough evidence  
to be certain the cheques  had been forged or that Mr N hadnt  authorised  the ATM 
withdrawals. So he didnt  ask Santander to refund the money.
And in reaching  this conclusion, the adjudicator had considered the requirements of the 
Payment Services Regulations (PSRs)  as these set out whats  needed for a bank to hold a 
customer liable for withdrawals in circumstances like this.
Ref: DRN00390212The adjudicator pointed out that at our service we arent handwriting experts.  But he had 
looked at a selection of signatures on copies of cheques. And he couldnt  safely say they 
were clearly forged  and the variations  in Mr Ns signature were such that he would not 
necessarily have expected Santander to not believe them to be genuine.
Unfortunately, the length of time since the ATM  withdrawals meant Santander didnt  have 
detailed records. Miss N had said her late father had never  written  down his PIN. While the 
adjudicator had no reason to doubt  that, it was difficult  to know what  may have been agreed 
between Mr N and Ms S at the time.
Miss N didnt agree with the adjudicators view. So she asked for an ombudsman to review  
the complaint  made on behalf  of her late fathers estate and issue  a final decision.
Miss N says the pattern of the cash withdrawals was out of character for the use of her late 
fathers account. And she provided further analysis of why she believed  the signatures  on 
the cheques to be forged. Miss N also pointed to the settlement agreed with Ms S, which  
whilst being a substantial  amount, was for a relatively small proportion of Mr Ns estate  and 
agreed to avoid unnecessary legal costs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Miss N feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats clear from what 
shes said to both us and Santander.  And thats  not surprising. There  is quite a large amount 
involved here.
All of this comes on top of what must have been  a very difficult  time for Miss N and other 
members of her family. Her father hadnt  been  well and things hadnt been easy because of 
contact with him not being as much  as they may have wanted  or hoped for. So its quite 
understandable that Miss N is concerned about  whats come to light in more  recent  times.
But Im afraid I have to tell Miss N that I agree  with the adjudicators view. Its not possible to 
say with sufficient  certainty  that her late father didnt sign the cheques.  And the lack of 
records for the ATM withdrawals means I cant be sure they werent authorised.  So Im not 
asking Santander  to refund the money.
Theres not a great deal I can usefully add to what the adjudicators already said to Miss N. 
bearing in mind our remit, I think  he set out the position quite clearly.  But its important 
I reassure Miss N that Ive considered the estates complaint afresh and independently  of 
what the adjudicator  has done.
Like the adjudicator,  Im not a handwriting expert. Were an informal  dispute  resolution 
service, acting as an alternative  to the courts. We dont have the forensic expertise to 
determine whether  the signatures  on the cheques were forged.
Ref: DRN00390213That said,  Im conscious  Miss N has strong views  on this particular point. So Ive taken some 
time to look at all the information and copy cheques she and Santander have  provided.  I can 
see differences between the signatures  on some  of the cheques. Thats  to be expected. 
Signatures are seldom identical.  And Im aware that Mr N wasnt  well during the time in 
question. So I cant rule out the possibility Mr N signed them. And that means I cant  fairly  tell 
Santander it has to refund the money.
The position  on the ATM  withdrawals  isnt helped by the lack of detailed  electronic records. 
But they did take place some four years  before Miss N brought the matter to Santanders 
attention. So it isnt entirely  surprising the records arent that good.
My review  has been limited to what is available. And this seems to show  there was extensive 
other use of Mr Ns account around  the times of the disputed withdrawals. His debit card is 
used to make lots of purchases (at supermarkets,  other  retailers  and for fuel supplies), none 
of which  has been disputed.
I cant completely exclude the fact that Mr N might  have  been taken advantage of during the 
time all these transactions happened. But I dont believe itd be fair or reasonable to say that 
Santander should refund  the money  because of this.
Ive considered carefully the requirements  of the PSRs, and the guidance of the Financial  
Conduct Authority,  around  authorisation of spending/withdrawals.  And, on this occasion, Im 
satisfied Santander  can hold the late Mr N responsible for the various withdrawals.
I asked Miss N for details  of the police investigation  into the alleged fraud. The information  
she has is limited.  But it seems  clear the police  considered there wasnt sufficient evidence 
to proceed with a full criminal investigation/prosecution.
I realise Miss N will be disappointed with my decision. Given how strongly  she feels, the 
estate may wish to take action through other  routes. But my decision brings to an end what 
we, in trying  to resolve the dispute shes raised  on behalf of her late fathers estate with 
Santander informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Miss N or the estate of her late 
father any further on this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  the complaint  
brought on behalf of the estate of the late Mr N.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N, on behalf  
of the estate of the late Mr N, to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0039021