K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  was not of satisfactory quality. He wants  to reject it 
and end the agreement.
background
Mr T is represented  in this complaint by his partner  but for ease  of reading Ill mostly refer to him.
Mr T tells us that he acquired  the vehicle at the end of August 2018 from a dealer Ill refer to 
as TV. He says the finance  agreement was brokered by a company Ill refer to as E. Mr T 
states that prior to being supplied to him the vehicle had been sent for repairs  to the air 
conditioning. He says this was carried out by a manufacturers approved  repairer which Ill 
refer to as L. Mr T reports that on 23 October  2018  the vehicle suffered a breakdown  as a 
result of an electrical failure.  He says an inspection of the vehicle identified  numerous faults. 
This included but wasnt limited to, the front fuse box being loose and the cover missing.  He 
says this had allowed  water and leaves into the fuse box and some  fuses  were  corroded. In 
addition he states  there  were trims  out of place and some  fittings  were  missing. And that it 
had also been  found the vehicle had been  damaged  in an accident in 2017.
Mr T says the vehicle was taken  for repairs but some faults still remained when it was returned 
to him. And at this stage  he tried to exercise his right to reject the vehicle. He tells us that 
Alphera first appeared to accept he was able to reject the vehicle but subsequently changed 
its stance. Mr T reports that in October  and November 2019  the vehicle experienced further 
electrical faults similar to those repaired earlier. This included  requiring a new amp to replace 
that fitted in October 2018. He says the latest faults  had resulted in the vehicle having no 
sound system or reversing sensors. And he says the vehicle  warranty has now expired.
Alphera told us that L had carried out a repair on behalf of TV, prior to the vehicle being 
supplied to Mr T. It said that due to Ls faulty workmanship the vehicle  had needed to be 
repaired further but this had been done.  And as far as it was concerned the faults  had been  
rectified. But it offered  to refund  two months payments to reflect the inconvenience 
experienced by Mr T in having to have  to return the vehicle for repairs.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 January 2020. I said that I intended to 
uphold the complaint and thought that Mr T should be able to reject the vehicle. Since then 
Mr T has replied, through his representative,  accepting my decision. Alphera hasnt replied 
to my provisional decision.  In these circumstances I see no reason to change  my provisional  
decision. And I shall largely repeat  it in my final decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  is 
able to consider  complaints relating to it. Alphera supplied  the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act of 
2015 (CRA). This states that - in order to conform to contract  - goods must  be what  a 
reasonable person would consider to be of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Ref: DRN03194442Ive been provided  with a large  amount of information by the parties in this case.  And if I 
dont comment on an individual item, its not that I havent taken it on board. Its just that I 
dont think I need  to refer to it separately in order to give the reasons  for my decision.
Its also right that I should note that at various  stages E seems to have become involved in 
discussions about the vehicle. Im not entirely sure why this occurred. Although possibly it 
was simply seeking to assist with problems which had arisen from circumstances where  it 
had brokered  the finance for the faulty vehicle.  Or in facilitating arrangements for the 
financing of a replacement vehicle. But as the credit broker, E wouldnt be directly liable for 
issues of vehicle quality.
Its not disputed  that prior to supply to Mr T the vehicle was sent to L for repairs to the air 
conditioning system. Nor is there any doubt the vehicle suffered an electrical failure  on 23 
October 2018. BMWs emergency service  inspected and recovered  the vehicle which I 
understand was taken  to an approved repairer  which Ill refer to as DL.
TV has accepted  that some of the faults, including those related to the fuse box, were the 
result of poor workmanship by L. Its not for me to determine if L was responsible  for these 
errors and omissions  - as its not a party to this case. But TVs acceptance  is relevant to my 
findings. Whilst Im satisfied TV wasnt aware of these issues, it means its accepted  that as 
a result of them the vehicle  when supplied to Mr T wasnt of satisfactory quality. That 
seemed to be further confirmed when at one point it agreed to accept Mr Ts rejection of the 
vehicle and offered  to help him find a suitable  replacement.
After the vehicle was returned from DL, Mr T notified  Alphera of further faults on 6 November 
2018 and sought to reject the vehicle.  The email  stated  these additional faults to include:
The USB ports no longer working; a clunk when the start and stop kicks in both stopping  and 
starting; a really bad rattle from the door panel  where they tried to fix the windows not 
meeting; the rear NS window  does  not meet with the front NS window so when  the roof is 
down the windows have a gap at the top; the NS Window seals  keep coming away  from the 
top of the doors.
Ive not seen any independent verification  of these faults at this time. But an email  from TV 
dated 27 November  agrees to look for a replacement  vehicle for Mr T. And on 28 November 
an email from E to Alphera  advises that TV informed  it (E):
We will now be accepting rejection of the vehicle as a repair  has been attempted  on the 
fuse box, whether its been a poor repair from a third party or not, there  is still issues  with the 
fuse box and also other  faults on the vehicle.
So this seems to be an acceptance that faults with the fuse box hadnt  been  totally  rectified 
and an acknowledgement of the other issues which  Mr T had raised.
Subsequently, Ive seen various  emails  involving the BMWs customer service executive 
dealing with this complaint. In these, the replacement  vehicle is discussed and it appears to 
be accepted that Mr T was entitled to reject  the vehicle. An email dated 17 December 2018 
confirms this view.
Ref: DRN03194443This makes it all the more  surprising  that later the same day Mr T was advised by Alphera of 
a change of heart and that it wouldnt accept rejection  of the vehicle.  The rationale for this 
was seemingly that DL had said the vehicle was no longer  faulty. On 2 January the same 
customer service  executives signature  appears  on the final response  letter  in which Alphera 
indicated it wouldnt accept the rejection of the vehicle. That letter  indicates  the writer 
believed DL repaired the fuse box and gave the vehicle a clean  bill of health.
On what basis this latter statement was made  Im not able to say as Ive not seen any 
information that the faults reported  by Mr T on 6 November and confirmed by TV on 28 
November had been rectified.
Although Ive been provided with a large amount of information there  are still some gaps in the 
documentation. And where evidence is incomplete,  unclear  or contradictory - as some it is 
here - Im required to determine any dispute of fact on the balance of probabilities.  Im satisfied 
that based on the details  contained in the emergency breakdown report that the most probable 
cause of the initial electrical failure was the water ingress into the fuse box. It seems the most 
likely explanation is that L failed to replace  the cover after it had completed the work it 
undertook prior to the vehicle  being supplied to Mr T. So at the point of supply the vehicle was 
not, in my opinion, of satisfactory quality. If goods  are found not to conform  to contract but the 
short term right to reject hasnt been  exercised  within  the first 30 days  following the 
agreement, the CRA permits the supplier to have one opportunity  to repair  the goods. And it 
appears the vehicle  was taken to DL for the fuse box and any other repairs to be completed.
I havent seen  the job sheet for this repair - but it doesnt seem to be disputed  that the fuse 
box was replaced. I also note that at the time Mr T expressed his concern about whether this 
repair would prove  effective in the long term. He expressed his doubts in an email to Alphera 
on 29 October 2018. He said hed been told that all the connections in the fuse box had to be 
remade by hand which gave rise to risks going  forward. And he felt there  were  risks of further 
issues occurring when  the vehicle was out of warranty. Those fears  appear to be justified in 
the light of the most recent failures with part of the electrical system in November 2019. 
When Alphera changed its view about accepting rejection  of the vehicle  I cant see it 
provided any documentary information  to show that all the faults on the vehicle had been 
repaired. Ive seen nothing to support the assertions made that DL had given the vehicle  a 
clean bill of health.  And given  that Mr T had reported  additional  faults after the fuse box 
repairs Im not sure when  DL wouldve had the opportunity to investigate  these issues  let 
alone repair them. So on a balance  of probabilities Im satisfied that when Mr T sought to 
reject the vehicle in early  November 2018 he was within his rights to do so.
Subsequent events only go to further  support such a conclusion.  Since  the complaint was 
referred to this service  in December 2018,  Mr T has provided information  regarding more  
faults with the vehicle.  In June 2019  he told us the roof was again  leaking and provided a 
video which  appears  to support this. 
Ive seen job sheets  from DL which refer to an inspection and work carried out on the vehicle 
on or around  25 September 2019. The technicians report revealed a number of issues. 
Amongst the more significant  showed  that water  was still leaking in through roof seals  which  
had to be replaced.
Mr T reports the vehicle was again returned  on 26 October 2019 as the amp had stopped  
working. He says the amp was later replaced  as a gesture of goodwill although  he was 
charged £300 for the investigative works.
Ref: DRN03194444And he says that water  again entered the vehicle leading to its return to DL in November 
2019. Ive seen an invoice dated 13 November which records: 
Carried out fault memory check confirmed fault with amp.  Found water ingress on the amp 
and surrounding  area. Confirmed water  leak coming from rear bumper drainage vents.  
Advise to replace vents and replace the amp.
Despite reports of faults and repairs dating back to October 2018 - which  related to water ingress 
and electrical problems - the vehicle was still exhibiting many of the same  issues in November 
2019. Apart from repairs not having  been completely successful it seems to me that a vehicle 
which in November 2019 was only three years old shouldnt be suffering  from repeated  leaks. 
And as durability is a relevant factor in considering whether goods are of satisfactory quality I also 
think the vehicle  fails to meet the required standard regarding this aspect.
In summary,  Im satisfied  the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory  quality when supplied.  I find on a 
balance of probabilities that repairs to which the vehicle has been subject werent successful  
so as to return it to a condition  where  it conformed  to contract. Coupled with TVs initial  
agreement to accept  Mr Ts rejection of the vehicle  - with which Alphera initially  concurred - Im 
of the opinion that it would be fair and reasonable to allow Mr T to now end the agreement and 
reject the vehicle. And the most recent  information  which shows  that the vehicle has once 
again experienced further leaks and electrical faults only goes to confirm this view.
Mr T originally requested through his representative  that all payments should  be refunded. 
But its fair and reasonable that payment should  be made for fair use. The mileage  recorded  
at the time of the last invoice in November 2019 was 16,931.  This suggests  that only slightly 
less than average use has been made of the vehicle since it was supplied  when the recorded  
mileage was 8,000 miles. So other  than the refund to reflect the impaired use that Ive 
already indicated, I think the scheduled  monthly payments should  be retained by Alphera. 
Ive taken into account that Mr T has had to use the vehicle over a longer period than 
wouldve been required  if Alphera had abided by its first indication.  And I think the continuing 
uncertainty of wondering if/when further problems would arise is likely to have detracted from 
his enjoyment of the vehicle. Now that its been  confirmed  that further issues  arose  I think a 
modest increase  - to £200 - in the award for distress and inconvenience  is justified.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint, I require BMW Financial  Services  (GB) Limited  
to take the following action:
1.End the agreement with nothing further for Mr T to pay from the date of termination; 
Any monthly payments  made  covering any period after the date of termination  should be 
refunded (pro rata if necessary);
2.Arrange collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mr T;
3.Refund the deposit;
4.Refund two monthly payments to reflect impaired use;
Ref: DRN031944455.Refund £300 being the cost of vehicle health check  in November 2019 relating to water  
ingress still occurring;
6.Pay £200 to Mr T for distress and inconvenience;
7.Arrange to have  details  of the agreement removed from Mr Ts credit  record.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to any sums arising from items 3, 
4 and 5 above from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0319444