K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan taken out in 2004. The plan
included payment protection insurance (PPI), life cover and critical illness  cover.
Mr A and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  the plan. 
Mr A and Mrs B have also complained that their life and critical illness  policy was not 
cancelled in 2015 when a separate complaint about a PPI policy  sold at the same time was 
upheld by Halifax.
background
Mr A and Mrs B complained about  a PPI policy in 2015. This complaint  was upheld and 
Halifax paid Mr A and Mrs B the relevant redress. My decision doesnt consider the sale of 
the PPI policy  as this issue appears to be resolved. Ive also noted a reference to house and 
contents insurance. This decision  only considers  the sale of the LCIC elements, not PPI or 
house and contents cover.
Mr A and Mrs B were  unhappy that the life and critical  illness cover (LCIC for ease) was not 
cancelled at the point when the PPI was. 
They brought their complaint to our Service in 2017  and our adjudicator found that the critical 
illness part of their cover wasnt mis-sold  but that decreasing term assurance (life cover)  
would have been more suitable  instead of the level term assurance that Mr A and Mrs B 
were sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  outcome as our adjudicator and I think that this 
insurance was partially mis-sold  so I partially uphold the complaint. Ill explain why below:
I think Halifax made Mr A and Mrs B aware that they had a choice about buying the 
LCIC, and they chose to take it.
 
Although all of the paperwork from the sale is no longer available, the mortgage offer 
dated 3 November 2004, in the section for insurance, states; 
Insurance you must take out through  Halifax  plc
You do not need to buy any insurance thought Halifax plc.
Insurance you have chosen to take out thought Halifax plc..
Optional Insurance
The LCIC  are listed under the Optional Insurance heading. So I think  that Mr A and 
Mrs B would reasonably  have been  aware that they didnt  have  to take it as a 
condition of their mortgage.
Ref: DRN07656262I dont think Mr A and Mrs Bs circumstances made  it wrong for Halifax  to recommend 
that they take out life and critical illness cover with the mortgage.
But the life and critical illness cover Halifax recommended was set up on a level term 
basis. The mortgage  was on a repayment basis - so the loan would reduce over time.  
So I think that Mr A and Mrs B shouldve  been sold cover on a reducing basis  rather 
than a level basis. And I think Halifax should  refund to Mr A and Mrs B any difference  
between what they paid for the level cover and what they would have paid if theyd 
taken out decreasing cover instead.
I think the plan should have been  set up on a decreasing and not a level basis. So Halifax 
doesnt need to refund everything Mr A and Mrs B paid for the life and critical illness  plan.
the second part of Mr A and Mrs Bs complaint
Ive thought carefully about the cancelation  of the life and critical illness  cover  and whether 
Halifax did everything as they should  have. Having done so, I also dont  uphold  this part of 
Mr A and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Mr A and Mrs B have said that the life and critical illness cover should  have been cancelled 
at the same  time as the PPI was cancelled. But the life and critical illness cover was 
separate to the PPI cover that was sold  although I accept that they were  sold at the same  
time.
In their final response letter - which is a response to the PPI complaint, dated  26 February 
2015, Halifax clearly  breaks down  the different elements that make  up the Total  Mortgage  
Protection Plan (TMPP) on the first page. PPI is listed as Mortgage Repayments  Cover. 
Life Cover and Critical Illness  Cover  are listed separately. 
The letter also refers to the final response only being about the PPI and provides a phone  
number if Mr A and Mrs B wish to discuss the other  elements of their cover.
On page 4 of this letter it states; As you still have Life Cover and/or  Critical Illness Cover,      
I will adjust your direct debit for you. If you cancel your direct debit, you may lose the cover 
these policies provide. 
In my opinion, I think that Mr A and Mrs B would  reasonably have been aware at this point (if 
not already from the point of sale documents)  that the LCIC was separate to PPI and that 
theyd continue to be charged for this cover unless  they chose to cancel it. 
Mr A and Mrs B then tried to contact Halifax a number of times by telephone and Halifaxs 
records show that there was contact  between the two parties. The call notes dont  record 
that any enquiry  was made by Mr A and Mrs B prior to 29 November 2016 about  LCIC. The 
PPI issue had been resolved in February 2015.
It was shortly after this call that Halifaxs investigation into the LCIC part of the complaint 
began.
I havent found reason to uphold the second  part of Mr A and Mrs Bs complaint about the 
cancelation of the LCIC.
Ref: DRN07656263what the business needs  to do for the life and critical illness cover
Halifax should pay back, if it hasnt already done  so, to Mr A and Mrs B any difference 
between what they paid for the life and critical illness cover  and what they wouldve paid if 
that cover  had been set up instead  on a decreasing  basis  to match  their mortgage. 
Halifax should also pay Mr A and Mrs B simple  interest at 8%* per year on each payment 
from when they paid it until when they get it back.
*Halifax has to take basic rate tax off this interest.  Mr A and Mrs B can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0765626