K821x#15complaint
Ms W and Mr B say Bradford & Bingley  Plc (B&B) mis-sold them a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
This complaint is a complex one  and one that has taken  some time to resolve. But in 
summary, Ms W and Mr B were  recommended a PPI policy  by B&B.  For the reasons Ive 
explained in my provisional decision,  I thought they were given a choice in buying PPI and I 
think they chose  to take it.
The PPI was meant to cover Ms W for accident  and sickness only.  But it seems as though  
the unemployment element of the cover was also added. B&B have agreed to refund the 
unemployment part of the cover in line with our guidelines.
I considered this complaint as though B&B made  a recommendation  to Ms W and Mr B. So it 
had to check the policy was right for them - and based on the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, I think it was. I thought it possible that the information  B&B gave Ms W 
and Mr B about the PPI could have been clearer, but I didnt think  better  information  would 
have put them off taking the cover.
I also said I thought  B&B should pay back some of the cost of the accident  and sickness part 
of the policy  because I thought B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium)  so I thought it should have told Ms W and Mr B about  this. 
B&B responded to my provisional decision to say that the commission  and profit  share was 
under 50% of the PPI premium, and so it didnt  need to pay anything back to Ms W and Mr B 
in relation to the commission and profit share.
Ms W and Mr B responded to my provisional  decision  with a number of points.  The main 
point they seem to be unhappy with is that Ive not upheld the complaint when the 
adjudicator who initially looked at the complaint did. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im upholding the unemployment element of the PPI. But Im not 
upholding the accident and sickness element of the complaint. 
Id like to assure Ms W and Mr B that Ive considered  everything  theyve told me. I havent 
seen anything new from Ms W and Mr B since I issued my provisional decision.  I cant  agree 
with the adjudicator that the whole complaint should  be upheld  and Ive explained my 
reason for this in my provisional decision.
Ive also thought about what  B&B have  told me about the commission  Ms W and Mr B paid 
on their PPI  and whether B&B treated them unfairly. 
Ref: DRN04920012B&B has told us that the commission for Ms W & Mr Bs PPI was less than half of what  they 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how B&B has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Ms W and Mr Bs commission was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the commission   
so I dont think B&B treated them unfairly.  This means it doesnt  need to pay Ms W and Mr B 
back any of the commission they paid for the accident and sickness  part of the PPI. Ms W 
and Mr B are aware of this.
But based  on what Ive already said in my provisional decision,  I think B&B should pay back 
the cost of the unemployment part of the PPI.
what the business needs  to do  unemployment  cover
B&B should  put Ms W and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
unemployment cover. The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, 
and B&B should:
Pay Ms W and Mr B back the amount they paid each  month  for the unemployment cover
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Ms W and Mr B made  a successful claim under the unemployment part of the PPI 
policy, B&B can take off what  they got for the claim from the amount it owes  them.   
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms W and Mr B can claim back  the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms W and Mr Bs complaint  about the 
unemployment part of the PPI cover. But I dont uphold their complaint about the accident 
and sickness part of the PPI cover.
Bradford & Bingley  Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W and Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 May 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN04920013copy of provisional decision
complaint
Ms W and Mr B say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms W and Mr B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1994. The PPI was designed to cover Ms W 
in the event that she couldnt work through accident, sickness or if she lost her job. They  paid a 
monthly amount for the policy.
When Ms W and Mr B complained to B&B about the PPI, B&B agreed to uphold  Ms Ws complaint in 
relation to the unemployment aspect of the policy  but it didnt agree that the accident and sickness 
part of the cover had been mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought that this complaint  should be upheld because it didnt think the cover was 
suitable for Ms W. B&B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision. 
A different ombudsman issued a provisional  decision  on this case, disagreeing with the opinion of the 
adjudicator. Ill summarise  the last provisional decision below:
Ms W and Mr B told us they were coerced  into buying PPI and they thought  they had to buy a policy 
in order to get the mortgage.  Based  on the information available, our ombudsman  didnt think  she had 
enough information to agree  with what Ms W and Mr B had said. Theres information on file indicating 
a discussion took place about PPI. A box was ticked suggesting that Ms W and Mr B wanted to buy a 
policy  other  financial products on the same  form had been declined.  So it seemed  more  likely that 
Ms W and Mr B were  given a choice in taking the cover  which they subsequently agreed to buy.
Because this PPI was sold in a meeting, and there arent any notes of it available, our ombudsman 
agreed it was possible that Ms W and Mr B were told they had to buy a policy  in order to get the 
mortgage. But based on the information available,  she didnt have  enough information to agree that 
this was more  likely  to have happened.
Our ombudsman made a finding that B&B recommended  the PPI to Ms W and Mr B. So it had to 
check the PPI was suitable  for Ms W  as she was the person covered under the policy. 
Ms W and Mr B had been paying for a policy that would  have covered  Ms W in the event of accident, 
sickness or loss of job. The information on file suggests that B&B had recommended accident and 
sickness cover  only  as Ms W was self-employed at the time she bought the PPI, so unemployment 
cover might not have been suitable for her. Our ombudsman thought it likely that the unemployment 
cover had been added in error when the policy was set up. Because of the error  in setting  up the 
policy, B&B agreed  to refund  Ms W and Mr B the money theyve paid for this part of the cover. So our 
ombudsman looked into whether the accident and sickness part of the PPI was suitable  for Ms W  
and she found that it was.
Ms W was eligible for the accident  and sickness cover  and it didnt appear that shed have been 
affected by any of the main  things that might have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim.
Ms W said she wouldnt have got any sick pay. So this policy could  have been  useful to her if she 
became too ill to work.
Our ombudsman didnt  think  there was anything to suggest  that the PPI was unaffordable to Ms W. 
And the policy could have been cancelled  at any time had they no longer wanted it.
Ref: DRN04920014B&B also needed to give Ms W and Mr B enough information about  the PPI so they could decide for 
themselves if they wanted  to buy the cover. Our ombudsman thought it possible that the information 
might not have been as clear as it should have been, but she didnt think that better information  about  
the cover would have put them off buying  it.
B&B were  able to offer an accident and sickness only policy as an alternative to an accident,  sickness 
and unemployment policy. Our ombudsman thought shed seen enough  information  to persuade her 
that Ms W and Mr B had accepted the advisors recommendation to take out accident and sickness 
cover for Ms W only. So she thought  it likely that Ms W and Mr B wanted this level of cover  following a 
discussion with the advisor. So our ombudsman  agreed to uphold the complaint in part on the basis 
that the unemployment  part of the cover should be refunded in line with our normal approach. Our 
ombudsman went on to explain how B&B should calculate the offer.
Ms W and Mr B responded to the provisional  decision  to say they didnt agree  and they should  be 
refunded the whole amount  of the PPI  they gave a number of reasons why they didnt agree  with 
the below main  points:
They  were pressured  into buying the PPI and they were told they wouldnt get the mortgage 
without cover. The sales  representative took advantage  of them because they were  first time 
buyers and nave.  They  thought they had to buy two financial products  from B&B in order  to 
be accepted for the mortgage. Theyve said that they dont take out insurance where  they 
dont need to. 
Ms W and Mr B have  provided information to show they were  on a priority sales scheme  with 
the council and that the council had a connection with B&B.
Due to the nature of their work, Ms W and Mr B were both on low and fluctuating incomes. Mr 
B, at the time of taking  out the PPI, had no income. They have  also given  me quite a bit more  
detail as to their circumstances  to support what  theyve said about the financial difficulties 
theyve experienced. And the difficulty in them being  able to get a property.  They knew at the 
time that they would struggle to pay the mortgage alone  and that they couldnt afford  any 
additional policies.
Their parents could have helped  them if they couldnt  keep up with the repayments.
The only element of the policy they were interested in was the unemployment aspect of the 
cover, as this was a major concern for them. When they bought the PPI, they had no history 
of medical problems and didnt ever think they would  get seriously sick.
B&B agreed  with the provisional  decision  and didnt  have anything further to add in relation to the sale 
of this PPI policy.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I currently agree  with the provisional findings made by our other ombudsman in the last provisional 
decision. I also agree  that B&B should pay back to Ms W and Mr B the amount they paid because of 
the unemployment  aspect  of the PPI. But for the same reasons as outlined in the previous provisional 
decision, I dont currently agree that the accident and sickness part of the PPI was mis-sold.
Ive thought very carefully about everything Ms W and Mr B have said.  And I know how strongly  they 
feel about the sale of this policy. So I appreciate this provisional decision will come as a 
disappointment to them.  But Id like to explain in more  detail the main points theyve raised above, 
and why these dont currently change the previous provisional decision.
Ref: DRN04920015Ms W and Mr B have  repeatedly told us that they were under the impression they had to buy a PPI 
policy in order to get the mortgage. B&B say they would  have made it clear the PPI was optional and 
they would have got their consent before adding  the cover. Where theres a dispute about  what  
happened, I have to base  my decision on what I think is most likely to have  happened  taking into 
account all the evidence thats available.
Ms W and Mr B have  sent me a copy of their mortgage application. On it theres  a section that asks if 
they want  PPI and yes has been written next to it. Ms W and Mr B have been  offered other products 
that theyve  declined. I appreciate what Ms W and Mr B have  said about  the sale, in that they thought 
they had to have cover  in place. But there isnt anything on the documents  they sent in that makes me 
think they had to buy a policy. And given that they declined to buy other cover, I think it likely theyd 
have been aware at the time that they could have decided not to buy PPI. 
In addition to this, Ive seen notes that appear to be from a discussion B&B had with Ms W and Mr B 
about their circumstances. It appears that there was a discussion about the cover, where they were  
recommended accident  and sickness cover.  The notes state that the recommendation was accepted.  
So based on everything Ive read and been told, on balance, I cant  fairly say that Ms W and Mr B 
werent given a choice in buying  PPI  or that cover  was added without them agreeing to it.
Ms W and Mr B have  maintained that they felt pressured into buying cover. Theyve  given me quite a 
bit of information  about  their situation and why it was important to them  to get the mortgage. And 
having read what theyve said, it doesnt surprise me that they felt under pressure to be accepted for 
the mortgage. But I dont  think this necessarily  means that someone at B&B put them under unfair  
pressure to buy the PPI. Instead  I think its more likely that Ms W and Mr B felt they were under  a lot 
of pressure to get the mortgage  given their circumstances at the time, and so I can appreciate that 
the whole process of applying  for, and being accepted for a mortgage was a difficult  and a 
presumably stressful time for them.  I think its likely  that someone at B&B explained the PPI to Ms W 
and Mr B  and why it would  be important for them to have protection  in the event that Ms W became 
too sick to work. And the consequences of them not keeping up with the repayments on their 
mortgage could have been quite severe. But I havent seen anything  that makes me think they were  
put under unfair  pressure  and so I dont think I can fairly  uphold this complaint on this point.
Ive looked at the document Ms W and Mr B have given me that shows they were  part of a priority 
sales scheme with a third party. The letter says that if they need mortgage advice  that they could 
contact B&B. But the letter  doesnt  say they had to use B&B for their mortgage requirements. And this 
point doesnt affect my current decision  on the outcome  of this complaint.
I dont doubt what Ms W and Mr B have told me about the financial struggles theyve had. Looking at 
the information provided  to me, it seems  as though the cost of the PPI was discussed with Ms W and 
Mr B at the time, and I think they chose to take the policy, knowing how much the PPI cost. Given Ms 
W and Mr Bs situation at the time, I think they would have  struggled to keep up with the repayments 
to the mortgage without the PPI if Ms W became too sick to work. And given the serious 
consequences of them defaulting on a debt secured against their home, I think  theyd have benefited 
from the protection and peace of mind the policy provided.
Ms W and Mr B say their parents would  have helped  make repayments to the mortgage if they 
werent able to. But individual circumstances  can also change. And Ms W and Mr Bs parents may not 
have been in a position to help them when  needed. It was ultimately the responsibility of Ms W and Mr 
B to ensure the repayments were met. So I still think the policy would  have been useful to them  if 
something were to go wrong.
Ref: DRN04920016Ms W and Mr B say that unemployment  was a concern for them and they would have only been 
interested in this part of the cover. They said they wouldnt have wanted the accident and sickness 
cover because they didnt have any medical  conditions  and they werent anticipating being off work 
sick. From looking at the information available  from the sale, it seems as though just accident  and 
sickness cover  was recommended to them.  Presumably  this is because  the advisor  at B&B didnt 
think the unemployment  element of the cover  was suitable for them. For the avoidance of doubt, I 
dont think unemployment cover would  have been suitable  for Ms W. Because she was self-
employed, its likely she would have found it difficult to make  an unemployment claim. So I dont think  
B&B should have recommended this to them.
But in relation  to the accident and sickness part of the cover, although I appreciate that 
Ms W wasnt expecting to get ill, like most insurances, PPI was designed to protect against the 
unexpected. So they could have benefited  from the cover if Ms W was too sick to work.
So as Ive said before,  I dont currently think the accident  and sickness part of this PPI policy was mis-
sold. But B&B should pay back to Ms W and Mr B the cost of the unemployment cover as they have 
already agreed  to do.
B&B should also pay back some of the cost of the accident  and sickness part of the policy to 
Ms W and Mr B because : 
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Ms W and Mr B about that. Because B&B didnt tell 
Ms W and Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, B&B has basically offered  to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do  unemployment cover
B&B should put Ms W and Mrs B in the position  theyd  be in now if they hadnt  taken out 
unemployment cover.  The policy should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled already,  and B&B 
should:
Pay Ms W and Mr B back the amount they paid each month for the unemployment cover
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year .
If Ms W and Mr B made a successful claim under the unemployment part of the PPI policy,  B&B 
can take off what they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
what the business needs to do  accident and sickness cover
B&B has to pay back to Ms W and Mr B any commission  and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the accident and sickness part of the PPI premium.
B&B should pay back to Ms W and Mr B the extra they paid each month because  the commission  and 
profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of accident and sickness cover. B&B should also 
pay Ms W and Mr B 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms W and Mr B can claim back  the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
Ref: DRN04920017my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently think the accident and sickness element of the PPI 
policy was mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Ms W and Mr B.
But Bradford & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Ms W and Mr B any commission and profit share  
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium on the accident and sickness element  of the policy. 
And it should pay back to Ms W and Mr B what they paid for the unemployment part of the policy by 
doing what Ive said above.
I now invite  Ms W and Mrs B, and Bradford & Bingley  Plc to give me any further information  they want 
me to consider before I make my final decision.  This must  be provided to us by 23 November  2018.
Ref: DRN0492001