K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms unhappy that Virgin Money plc removed a promotional offer on his credit card when 
he accidentally missed  a payment.  
background
Mr M says he always paid off his card on time and missing one was a genuine mistake when 
he accidentally cancelled  his direct debit. He also says he received a text message saying 
the payment was due, not that it was overdue. He says he wants  Virgin to show  some 
flexibility and refund the charges and interest. 
Virgin said in its final response that it isnt able to reinstate the promotional  offer or refund  
any fees or interest.  Its terms and conditions say the promotional  offer would end if the 
minimum payment wasnt received when due. The statements made clear when the 
payment was due. But it wasnt  received in time. It was Mr Ms responsibility to ensure  the 
payment was made in time. It hasnt acted unfairly. 
Our adjudicator felt that this complaint  shouldnt be upheld. She said:
The late payment fee was applied in line with the accounts terms and conditions. 
The statement also set out information  about the promotional offer and that it would 
be removed if a minimum payment wasnt made when due.
Despite Mr M making a genuine mistake it was his responsibility  to make the 
payment when it was due. And hed had 20 days to do so from the date of the 
statement.
Virgin says its terms and conditions  and the credit agreement  dont  oblige it to send a 
text message when  a payment is missed.  It does so in response to customer 
feedback. But because this isnt a secure  method of contact the message  will not 
have any detail  in it. Its just to prompt the customer to check  their account  or to get 
in contact. It says it also sent Mr M a letter about  the default. 
Virgin has acted in line with its terms and conditions and it hasnt removed the 
promotional offer in error. So, she cant ask it to reinstate the offer or refund any 
interest or charges.
Mr M remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Im satisfied that Virgin adequately brought the terms  and conditions  of the account to Mr Ms 
attention and they made clear what would  happen  to the promotional offer if a minimum 
payment wasnt received  when due and that charges would also be applied  to the account. 
Mr Ms statement also set out when a payment was required some 20 days  later.
Ref: DRN09476192Virgin also sent a text message when the payment  was missed despite not being obliged  to 
do so and although this contained  limited information it was designed  to get the customer  to 
check their account. That seems reasonable.
I understand Mr Ms frustration at missing a payment  and have no doubt this was a genuine 
error on his part. 
Even so the simple  fact is it was Mr Ms responsibility to make the minimum payment by the 
due date. But here he didnt do so. As a result  Virgin removed the promotional  offer and 
applied charges and interest as it was entitled to do. 
Taking everything into account  I think Virgin has acted with the terms and conditions  of the 
account and hasnt done anything wrong.  And I dont think I can therefore fairly or 
reasonably require it to reinstate the promotional offer or refund any interest and charges.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Ms strength of feeling and frustration, I dont see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0947619