K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that BISL Limited  breached his data privacy  when administering  his motor  
insurance policy. 
background
Mr M is insured through BISL.  He received two texts from an insurer  he doesnt  hold a policy  
with telling him his policy  had been  renewed. Mr M called this insurer  and the agent was able 
to quote his policy number. But he said Mr Ms personal details were safe. Mr M contacted 
BISL and the matter  was investigated. It said another consumer had misquoted their phone  
number, giving Mr Ms number, so he received their texts. It said there had been no data 
breaches. But Mr M was still worried by this.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  BISL 
administered a number  of insurers policies. So the other  insurers agent Mr M spoke to was 
able to quote Mr Ms policy number. He thought  BISL had reasonably apologised and acted 
promptly to remedy the error.
Mr M asked  for his complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision.  He was 
concerned that the other insurer  had access to some of his personal details. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms concern that he was contacted by a company he didnt  insure with 
and then, when  he called  it, it was able to quote his policy number.
BISL has explained what went wrong. It administers policies  on behalf of a number of 
insurers. Another customer  had misquoted  their mobile phone  number, giving Mr Ms 
number. So texts  had been sent to the incorrect number. Ive seen  the texts  and they dont 
contain any personal or private information. 
When Mr M called  the other  insurer, BISLs  agent, acting for it, was able to identify his policy  
number from the information Mr M provided.  This doesnt mean that the other insurer had 
access to Mr Ms personal information. 
When BISL was made aware of the error,  it said it contacted  the other customer  and 
corrected the phone number. So Mr M shouldnt have any reoccurrence of the texts. I think  
BISL acted to fix the problem as soon as it was brought to its attention, as Id expect it to do. 
So I think that, whilst there was an error, it was made by the other customer,  not by BISL. So 
I cant reasonably hold BISL  responsible  for this. BISL acted  to correct the problem as soon 
as it was made aware of it. And Im satisfied that there were  no breaches of Mr Ms personal 
and private data. So I dont require BISL  to do anything further. 
Ref: DRN06533952my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0653395