K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that The Car Finance Company (2007) Limited (TCFC) continued to 
pursue him for a debt while  he was disputing it.
background
In 2015 Mr D acquired a used car under a hire purchase agreement financed  by TCFC. That 
company is no longer  trading, and Go Car Credit Limited (trading as GCC Servicing)  
(GCC)  has been corresponding with the Financial Ombudsman Service about complaints 
brought against TCFC,  including this one.
In 2017 Mr D took the car to a garage to repair  a fault. There  is a dispute about whether the 
car was repaired once or twice, and about who would  be liable to pay for the second repair 
(if there was one). The garage refused to release the car until it had been paid for the 
second repair. TCFC didnt agree that it was liable for any repairs,  and also decided that it 
would be uneconomical to pay for the repair anyway,  as the garages bill exceeded the value 
of the car. So instead TCFC served  a default notice on Mr D, and transferred ownership of 
the car to the garage. TCFC held Mr D liable for the outstanding payments due under the 
hire purchase agreement,  but Mr D disputed that he owed anything. He argued that by 
transferring the car to the garage, TCFC had unlawfully repossessed the car without a court  
order.
In June 2018, TCFC  contacted Mr D about  the outstanding debt.  He complained  that TCFC 
had breached regulations by doing  so. He said that the dispute  would be settled in court, 
and in the meantime TCFC should not be pursuing  him for the debt until then. (I understand 
that litigation had already  commenced, but that no date had been set for a court  hearing.)
TCFC said that it had complied with the regulations,  by investigating  the dispute and 
providing Mr D with its conclusions. As it had concluded  that the debt was a valid one, it was 
entitled to resume  contact with a view to collecting the debt from him, without waiting for the 
outcome of any litigation. Being dissatisfied  with that answer,  Mr D brought  this complaint to 
our Service.
Mr Ds complaint was initially only about  TCFC contacting him about the debt during an 
ongoing dispute about whether he owed it. But our adjudicator also investigated the 
underlying issue  of repossession, as she thought it was impracticable to consider whether  
TCFC had been entitled to pursue Mr D for the debt without also considering whether there 
was a proper basis for the debt. She concluded  that TCFC had unlawfully repossessed  the 
car, and that as a result, under section 91 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974, Mr D no longer  
owed anything under  the hire purchase  agreement.  She also thought  that TCFC should 
refund all of the payments Mr D had made already, with interest on the refund of his deposit.
By this time, GCC had taken over responsibility for this complaint. GCCs solicitor denied 
that the car had been repossessed,  and argued  that as the garage  had exercised  a lien over 
the car, Mr D had already lost possession to the garage. GCC asked for an ombudsman  to 
review this case.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows.
Ref: DRN09443512my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations made by the Financial Conduct  Authority  say:1
A firm must suspend any steps it takes or its agent takes in the recovery of a debt 
from a customer where the customer  disputes  the debt on valid grounds or what 
may be valid grounds.
But then they go on to say:
Where a customer disputes  a debt on valid grounds or what may be valid grounds,  
the firm must  investigate the dispute and provide details  of the debt to the customer  
in a timely manner.   A firm must provide  a customer with information  on the 
outcome of its investigations into a debt which  the customer disputed  on valid 
grounds.
The parties were already  in litigation when TCFC called  Mr D in 2018, so its clear that there 
was a dispute ongoing. But as the parties lawyers had corresponded  with each other and 
set out their respective positions, I think that satisfied TCFCs duty to investigate the matter 
and then report its findings to its customer  its lawyers did that on its behalf. TCFC 
investigated the matter again when Mr D complained about  the phone  call, and its final 
response letter was also a report of TCFCs findings, this time from TCFC directly.
The regulations dont explicitly state  whether a firm may resume recovering a debt after it 
has provided a customer  with the outcome  of its investigations. But I think  its implied that it 
can. If the FCA had intended to prohibit a firm from ever pursuing a debt again,  I think  it 
would have said so in clear terms, and not left it to inference.
I could stop here, and say that I do not uphold this complaint,  since this issue is the only 
issue Mr D asked our Service to address.  But since our adjudicator  upheld  this complaint on 
the basis that the car was unlawfully repossessed, I think Mr D would ask me to consider 
that issue too. (He didnt object to the adjudicators broadening of the scope of his complaint 
once he received her decision.) It is also relevant to whether TCFC investigated  the matter 
properly and in good faith, so I can see why our adjudicator considered  it.
I am not going  to consider  the question of whether the car was repaired once  or twice, and 
I am not going  to consider  whether Mr D told the garage that he could not afford  to pay for 
the second repair. These are matters which are best dealt with in court, and under the rules  
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I dont have to make findings about  issues which 
I think should be dealt  with in court. So I expressly  make no findings about those two 
questions. That is because I dont have power to investigate or cross-examine a third party   
in this case, the garage.
I do however find that TCFC (and, subsequently,  GCC) was entitled  to believe the garage 
when the garage  told it that the car had been repaired twice,  and that Mr D had paid for the 
first repair but not the second one. (That is a slightly different question to whether that was 
actually the case  or not, which I am not considering.) To be clear, I think that TCFC had to 
1 https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/CONC/7/14.html
Ref: DRN09443513form a view about whether what the garage  told it was true or not, and that it was entitled to 
decide that it was. It was not so implausible that no reasonable person could believe it.
Once TCFC accepted that the garage  had repaired the car for a second time,  and that Mr D 
had told the garage  that he couldnt afford to pay for it, I think TCFC was entitled to conclude 
that it wasnt going to get the car back again.  The garage had exercised its right of lien over 
the car, meaning  that it would  keep  it until someone  paid its invoice. The garage was 
charging storage  fees of £30 a day, and the invoice was for more  than the car was worth.
Section 90 of the Consumer Credit Act says that where certain conditions are met, the 
creditor is not entitled to recover possession of the goods from the debtor except on an order  
of the court (emphasis added). However,  I dont think TCFC transferring ownership of the 
car to the garage amounted to recovering possession of it from Mr D, because he was no 
longer in possession of the car at the time. The garage had possession  of the car, because 
Mr D had left it there, and the garage  was retaining possession in exercise of its lien. So 
I dont think TCFC needed a court order under  section 90, and consequently section 91 does 
not apply.
By allowing this situation  to come about, Mr D had breached the terms and conditions of the 
hire purchase agreement.  These  included the following paragraph (emphasis added):
We are the owners of the goods and you rent them from us. Until you own the 
goods you must not suggest  that you are the owner  of them, sell them  or give them  
away or let them become part of any lien or security (where you allow another  
person to take control of the goods in return for a debt being paid).
So I think that TCFC was entitled to serve  him a default notice,  and subsequently to 
terminate the agreement once Mr D had failed to retrieve the car from the garage.
So my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold  this complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
GCC accepted  my decision (and clarified that the account is now with Arrow Global Ltd).
Mr D did not accept my decision. He said that under Scots law (which  is the law applicable to 
his finance agreement), there  is no such thing  as lien. He insisted that as soon as he had 
made his first payment under the hire purchase  agreement, TCFC had been  obliged to get a 
court order  to repossess the car. He clarified  that he had not paid the garage for the second 
repair because he was exercising his right to a free repair under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015, the first repair having been unsatisfactory. He said that the garage had acted 
fraudulently, and a contractor who had worked on Mr Ds car for the garage provided  me 
with his account of events, which  supported Mr Ds claim. Mr D said that TCFC had failed  to 
investigate the fraud  allegations (which he has since reported to the police).
my findings
I agree  that Scots law applies to Mr Ds hire purchase agreement, but I do not think that 
changes the outcome of this complaint. I am satisfied that lien does exist in Scots law,2 and 
that sections 90 and 91 of the Consumer Credit Act apply to Scotland.  The only relevant 
2 I referred to Pledge and lien in Scots  law, the PhD thesis of AJM Steven (1997), available online at 
the Edinburgh Research  Archive:  https://era.ed.ac.uk/handle/1842/22654
Ref: DRN09443514difference between  Scots  and English law is that in Scotland the criteria for section 90 
applying are more  generous  to the consumer  than in England, in that in England the section 
does not apply until the consumer has paid one third of the total price of the goods, a rule 
which does not apply in Scotland. However,  I said in my provisional  decision that section 90 
did not apply to Mr Ds car because  the car was no longer in his possession,  not because he 
had not made enough payments, and I still think that is the case. TCFC  was entitled to 
repossess the car without a court order because  the car was already not in Mr Ds 
possession.
I still remain of the view that whether Mr D owed the garage money for the second repair, or 
whether the garage acted fraudulently, are matters  which are better resolved in court.3
I think that TCFC  complied with its duty under FCA rules to investigate the debt and to 
refrain from taking steps to recover the debt until it had concluded its investigation. TCFC  
concluded that the debt was owed, and I cannot  challenge that conclusion except by 
considering the matters  which  I have already said are more suitable  for a court to examine.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
3 I originally described  these  issues as whether  the car was repaired once or twice, and  whether 
Mr D told the garage  that he could not afford to pay for the second repair,  but I think these  all relate  
to the same broad  topic.
Ref: DRN0944351