K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the amount that hes been charged by ALD Automotive Limited, 
trading as Kia Contract Hire, for damage to a car that he returned when his hire agreement  
ended. 
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr H under  a hire agreement with Kia Contract  Hire that he 
electronically signed in March 2015.  The car was collected from him by a third party on 
behalf of Kia Contract Hire when the agreement ended in March  2018. The collection report 
identified damage  to the car. The car was inspected the following day and photos of the 
damage were taken. Mr H was then charged  £139 for damage to the cars rear bumper. He 
complained to Kia Contract Hire about the charge but wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that the 
collection report identified five areas of chargeable damage that amounted to £680  but Kia 
Contract Hire waived all the charges except the rear bumper  charge  of £139. Mr H hadnt 
signed the collection report but, looking at that report and the inspection report, he wasnt 
satisfied the damage  to the rear bumper  was caused after collection of the car.
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that a fair 
outcome would be for him to pay for half of the charge as he knows that damage wasnt  
done before  the car was collected and his signature  was forged on the collection report. And 
he says that Kia Contract Hire doesnt have any evidence to show that the alleged damage  
was done before the car was collected.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H electronically signed  the hire agreement in March 2015  and agreed to be legally bound 
by its terms. The terms and conditions  say that on return of the car:
The state of repair and condition  of the Vehicle is to be consistent  with its age and 
mileage, assuming good treatment and allowing  for Fair Wear  and Tear. The 
Customer will pay to Kia Contract Hire all sums necessary to restore  the Vehicle to a 
roadworthy condition  satisfactory to Kia Contract Hire, which  shall include without 
limitation rectifying body,  wheel or windscreen  damage or substandard accident 
repairs, replacement of missing keys, remote controls or accessory items, 
replacement tyres and making good  any mechanical defects, defects caused by 
incorrect servicing and defects caused  by any breach by the Customer of its 
obligations under  this Agreement.
And the definition of fair wear  and tear refers to the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association guidelines on fair wear and tear.
The car was collected from Mr H by a third party on behalf of Kia Contract Hire when the 
agreement ended in March 2018. The cars mileage was recorded on the collection report  as 
being 30,318 miles.  That report identified that the cars front bumper, near side rear door, 
Ref: DRN09312792near side wheel and rear bumper were  all scratched and that the near side front door was 
dented. 
Mr H wasnt present when the car was collected  but the collection report  includes a 
squiggle in the box for the customers signature. But I dont consider that to be Mr Hs 
signature or that he signed the collection report.  Theres no requirement  for a customer  to be 
present when a cars collected or to sign the collection  report.
The car was inspected the following day and an inspection  report was prepared which  
included photos  of the damage. The photos in the report show  a dented  left front door, an 
unsatisfactorily repaired rear bumper, a dented tailgate and a dented right rear door - and it 
recommended a charge of £680  for that damage. But Kia Contract Hire only charged Mr H 
£139 which was for the damage  to the rear bumper.  
A scratched rear bumper was identified on the collection report and the inspection report 
refers to an unsatisfactorily repaired rear bumper and includes a photo of a dented bumper. 
I consider it to be more  likely than not that the bumper had already been  damaged  when the 
car was collected from Mr H and that the damage wouldnt be considered  to be fair wear  and 
tear in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  guidelines.  Im 
not persuaded that its likely that the damage  to the bumper occurred after the car had been 
collected from Mr H or that an attempt  would then have been made to repair that damage.
The car was collected from Mr H in mid-March 2018 and Kia Contract Hire says that the 
invoice was raised seven days later and was sent to Mr H. He then contacted it about the 
charge about  a month later. I consider that the invoice was sent to Mr H in accordance  with 
the time limits recommended  in the guidelines referred to above.
I dont consider that the charge is excessive or that Kia Contract  Hire has acted incorrectly  in 
charging Mr H for the damage to the car. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to require it to waive or reduce the charge that its made to Mr H for that damage or to 
take any other action  in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0931279