K822xcomplaint
Ms S complained she had been  mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  when 
she took out a store  card and she is unhappy  with the compensation Financial  Insurance 
Company Limited  (FICL) offered to settle her complaint.
background
Ms S opened a store card (ending  0584)  in January  1990 and at the same time took out a 
PPI policy. When Ms S complained that the PPI was mis-sold, FICL  offered some 
compensation to settle the complaint.
FICL was not responsible for the sale of the PPI but has accepted liability  for the mis-sale 
complaint as the underwriter of the insurance  policy. Its offer letter to Ms S said £0.04 was 
due for the compensation to put her in the position  she wouldve been in if she hadnt  bought  
the PPI.
Ms S said she had used  the store card until at least the mid-2000s and had regularly had a 
balance on the account. As PPI is charged  based on the card balance amount Ms S felt 
much more would  have been paid for the PPI, so she thought  the compensation should be 
more.
FICL only had limited information about  the account  from so long ago and said the records  it 
did have showed  only one premium of £0.01 was charged in March 1990.  It had used  this to 
work out its offer of £0.04 total compensation.
Our adjudicator said what FICL had offered wasnt fair as FICL hadnt used all the data it had 
to make any reasonable assumptions about  what may have been  charged for PPI in the 
months where there  was no data.
In response FICL said it would offer £100 as a goodwill amount for the compensation. Our 
adjudicator said that was fair in the circumstances where there was no evidence of exactly 
what Ms S may have paid.
Ms S still wasnt happy so asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FICL has offered  to settle the complaint on the basis the PPI was mis-sold. So in this 
decision Im not looking  at how the PPI came to be sold,  but at whether  the compensation 
offered by FICL is fair.
FICL has provided some screenshots  which contain  the data it holds about the account. 
These show that the account opened,  and the PPI started,  on 3 January  1990. The most  
recent records provided also indicate that the last transaction  on the card account was in 
July 2006 and by September 2006  the account  was closed. 
However these records  also show that the PPI was cancelled on 2 April 1990. So the PPI 
only ran for three months. Only one premium is shown for the PPI in March 1990 and this 
Ref: DRN01881282was for £0.01. It is impossible to know if any premium was charged in February or how much 
this may have been. 
The records  also indicate the total spend  made  on the account was just over £7,700 this 
being the amount spent by Ms S over the 16 years  the account was opened.  In the earlier 
years it is unlikely Ms S spent as much on the card as in later years  as the credit limit on the 
account at the start would have been  much less. Also Ms S has indicated  that she recalls the 
balance in the early  2000s being  a few thousand pounds which also suggests  the spend  in 
the later years of the account was higher. 
It is possible in February  1990  Ms S was charged for PPI and this may have been a little 
more than £0.01p recorded for March  1990. But with the PPI being charged only for two 
months there would  not have been very much  paid in total.
The £100  FICL has now offered as a goodwill amount, most likely will be giving back to Ms S 
more than she ever spent on the costs of the PPI. But without  any clear evidence  of what 
was actually charged I think what FICL has offered  is fair.
I know Ms S has said she wasnt happy with the offer because  she thought the account was 
still being used  up to the mid-2000s and she had a balance of several thousand pounds in 
the early 2000s.  And she thought she would have been paying the PPI throughout this time.
The records  now provided do confirm  that the account was active  until July 2006; also that 
she had a credit limit in 2006 of £8000. So her recollections of the balance through  to the 
mid-2000s may well be accurate. But taking into account the overall spend on the account, it 
is very likely  the balance was far less at the start of the account in 1990.  So the amount of 
PPI charged at that time would  have  been very small.
The records  do reflect  Ms S recollections  about  when  the account  was open but also show 
the PPI was cancelled after just three months, so no PPI was being charged in the later 
years when the balance was higher. 
Based on everything  I have seen, I think its most likely Ms S may have  paid two premiums, 
in February and March  1990. And I think the £100 FICL has now offered will refund these 
plus give Ms S some compensation  for being out of pocket.
I know Ms S will be unhappy that the exact amount she paid for the PPI is not known. 
However I hope the information I have now set out answers some  of her concerns and 
explains why I think the offer of £100 is fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out I think that the £100  compensation offered  by Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  is fair and Im not telling it to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN01881283Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0188128