K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complained because CIS General Insurance Limited declined their buildings  
insurance claim for a damaged pipe.
background
Water was leaking from a corroded pipe onto the ceiling  below. CIS said the damaged pipe 
wasnt covered by the policy  because the damage  hadnt been caused by an insured event  
it was due to a gradual cause such as wear and tear. CIS did however  say it would consider 
a claim for the resultant  damage caused by the water that had leaked from the pipe. The 
complaint came to us because Mr and Mrs K felt CIS should  pay for the damaged pipe.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He felt CIS declined the claim 
fairly because the policy only covered damage  caused by the leak,  and the pipe wasnt 
damaged by the leak. He also said the policy excluded damage  caused by wear  and tear 
and corrosion.
Mr and Mrs K didnt  agree with our investigator. They said the pipe wasnt  damaged  by wear 
and tear as pipes  dont corrode over 13 years. They also said there was a leak over a 
lengthy period  of time and that there had been  an insured event because if there hadnt 
been a leak there wouldnt have been flooding that damaged the ceiling  below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for damage caused to Mr and Mrs Ks home by a range of insured 
events. These events are fairly standard across the industry and include things like fire, theft 
and storm. Mr and Mrs K also have accidental damage cover  (which isnt standard  as its 
something they pay extra for). As these are two separate  and distinct parts  of the policy,  Ill 
comment on them separately below.
standard insured events
The policy covers what is commonly referred to as escape of water. Essentially, cover is 
provided for damage  caused by water  leaking (or escaping) from:
a fixed water system (such  as a pipe), heating installation or domestic appliance, or
a fish tank.
Only damage caused by the escaping water  is covered. Thats  important to note because  in 
this type of claim the water leaking doesnt usually,  if ever,  damage the pipe. The pipe is 
usually damaged by something else and the water then leaks/escapes from it.
Its not disputed  here that the pipe has corroded. But I cant see how the water that leaked 
from the pipe caused  the pipe to corrode. It seems far more  likely to me that the pipe 
corroded due to something else,  and that then led to the water  leaking. It might be that water 
from somewhere else caused the corrosion. But for the pipe to be covered it would have to 
be shown that the water  causing the corrosion had escaped from another fixed water  
system, heating installation, domestic  appliance  or fish tank. I havent seen anything which 
Ref: DRN03935432shows thats what happened.  Mr K referred to a previous leak from the same area that led to 
part of the ceiling coming down, but I have seen  anything which shows  that leak damaged 
the pipe.
I therefore conclude  that CIS treated Mr and Mrs K fairly when it declined their claim under 
this section of the policy.  I dont think  its been  shown that the pipe was damaged by an 
escape of water.
accidental damage
The policy defines  accidental  damage as physical damage that is caused suddenly  by an 
external event and that is unexpected and not deliberate.
Corrosion happens  over a period of time. So theres  an argument that the damage to the 
pipe doesnt fall into the above definition as it wasnt caused  suddenly. But even  if I gave 
Mr and Mrs K the benefit of the doubt  on that argument (as the damage was sudden as far 
as they were concerned)  the accidental damage section of the policy specifically excludes 
damage caused by anything  that happens gradually. And even though  Mr and Mrs K might 
not have known about it, the damage  to the pipe was caused gradually  over a period of time.
I therefore conclude  that CIS treated Mr and Mrs K fairly when it declined their claim under 
this section of the policy.  Thats because damage caused gradually  is excluded.
wear and tear
Arguments have been made about whether  or not the damage was caused by wear and tear 
(which is also excluded). I think this has stemmed from CIS using the phrase gradual 
causes such as wear and tear are excluded from the policy cover in its letter to Mr K after 
he complained.
Although I understand the argument  Mr and Mrs K have made  about  pipes not wearing out 
after 13 years, I dont think any argument about wear and tear is relevant to the outcome of 
this complaint. Thats because even if I concluded that the damage wasnt  due to wear and 
tear, it would still be the case that (a) it hasnt been shown that the pipe was damaged  by an 
escape of water, and (b) damage  caused  gradually is excluded from the accidental damage  
cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0393543