K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that the washing machine he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  
from Caversham Finance Limited,  trading  as Bright House,  was not of satisfactory quality. 
He also complains about the customer service  he received.
background
May 2016 Mr H acquired a new washing machine  from Bright House financed by a hire 
purchase agreement.  During 2016 and early 2017  Mr H experienced problems with the 
machine including, but not limited to, the washing machine bouncing  across  the floor and 
leaving stains on clothes during the cycle.
Bright House made  a number of visits to make various repairs  but Mr H said the stains  
persisted. In December 2016 it offered Mr H a replacement machine. Mr H said he rejected 
this on the basis  it was not a like-for-like machine, but instead was second-hand.  The 
problems continued  and Mr H complained  to Bright House.  
In its final response in December 2017  Bright House did not uphold  the complaint.  It said it 
had offered Mr H a temporary  replacement but Mr H refused. Mr H had stopped making  
payments for the machine in October 2017  which caused his account to go into arrears.  
In January Mr H made a further complaint about the communication he had received 
concerning his arrears  during the time Bright House  was investigating his first complaint. 
Bright House said a commitment had been  placed onto Mr Hs account.  This is where a 
customer has fallen into arrears but has made a commitment to catch up. Bright  House said 
when placed on a commitment all collection activities, such  as telephone calls,  text 
messages and home visits  must  be suspended. But Bright  House  accepted that two phone  
calls had been made while the account  was on a commitment, and as compensation it sent 
Mr H a cheque for £40. 
Mr H remained  unhappy and brought his complaint  to this service. 
Our investigator thought Bright House should  do more.  In her view she felt it reasonable for 
Bright House to allow Mr H to return the washing machine and write-off the outstanding debt. 
But because Bright House  had terminated  the agreement  it wasnt possible to unwind the 
agreement. Mr H had provided evidence of stains to clothing, so the investigator  asked 
Bright House to also consider compensation for these items.  
Bright House agreed to take the machine back and write-off the debt. But it said it wouldnt 
agree to compensation as Mr H had had use of the washing machine without paying since 
October 2017.  
Mr H was not satisfied  with this response. He said Bright House should refund his payments. 
He also said he was left out of pocket  because of the damage to the clothes and had 
effectively been  storing  the washing machine for Bright House. After  considering  all of the 
evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H and Bright  House on 28 
March 2019. I said:  
Both parties  have mentioned, as part of their evidence, other products which  Mr H acquired 
from Bright House using  financial  agreements. But my role here is to look at the individual 
Ref: DRN02149352circumstances of this complaint. Im unable to consider  those other agreements or use them 
as context for this complaint concerning the washing  machine. 
Mr H acquired  the washing machine through a hire purchase agreement  with Bright  House. 
The relevant  law says Bright  House was responsible for ensuring it was satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply.  While I dont apply  the law  directly  I do take it into account. So if 
Im satisfied the washing machine was not of a satisfactory quality then Id expect Bright  
House to put things right. 
Several things went wrong with the washing machine when Mr H first acquired it. And Bright  
House sent a technician to repair on a number of occasions. On one such  occasion  in 
August 2016 Mr H reported the machine was bouncing across  the floor. The technician  
tightened concrete  blocks  and adjusted  the feet to secure the machine.
In November Mr H reported to Bright House that the machine  was leaving oily stains on 
clothes. This issue wasnt resolved but Mr H said he rejected a replacement because  hed 
bought a new one and the replacement wasnt like for like. 
Bright House is not obliged to replace a machine with a brand new one. According to the 
terms and conditions of Mr Hs hire purchase agreement 7(e):
If on examination of the goods  the technician decides that because  of a failure  it 
would be uneconomical or impracticable to repair the goods  then we will provide you 
with replacement goods of an equivalent  age, condition and general specification  or 
better general specification within a reasonable period.   
Mr Hs machine was new when he acquired  it but he subsequently  had it and used it for nine 
months. Since the investigator issued her view Bright House has provided further evidence 
that the washing machine it offered as a replacement was a like-for-like machine of similar 
age and was in excellent condition. So Im satisfied that Bright  House was able to offer Mr H 
a suitable replacement about  a month  after he reported his machine leaving stains on his 
clothes. And so I consider it did make a reasonable attempt to put things right at this point.
Despite insisting it had offered a suitable  replacement, Im pleased to see Bright  House has 
since agreed to take the machine back now and write-off the debt. But Mr H would like it to 
refund his payments and provide compensation. In order to require that, I need  to be 
persuaded the machine  was faulty from the start or there was an inherent flaw. 
In her view to Mr H, our investigator noted  that Mr H had had a visit from the manufacturer 
(M) to look at the washing machine. Mr H said M advised him the bearings on the machine 
were more than likely damaged, caused  by the machine bouncing around. And that this 
wasnt something that could be repaired. Mr H has also said M is willing to inspect the 
machine and provide a report for a fee. But Mr H hasnt yet commissioned this. 
Its not clear to me from the evidence if M actually visited Mr H or he spoke with it on the 
phone. Nor is it clear  if M has already inspected the machine. But Im not disputing Mr H 
spoke with M, nor am I disputing it gave its opinion on what the problem is with the machine. 
But there isnt enough  evidence for me determine  if these problems stem from an inherent 
problem with the washing machine that wouldve been present when Mr H acquired it; 
whether the problems developed later; whether they were  caused by the machine bouncing 
around; or even caused by problems with installation. 
Ref: DRN02149353I cant be sure of what the specific problem is which caused the stains but it seems generally  
accepted that there is a problem. As this is a provisional decision,  Mr H has the opportunity  
to provide further evidence from M. In the absence of that evidence, however, as Mr H 
refused the replacement  machine and continued to use the faulty  machine, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable for me to insist  Bright House return the payments he has made. 
However, I am persuaded  that Bright House should  provide  some  compensation to Mr M for 
the stains on the clothes he reported in November 2017, prior to being offered  a 
replacement. Its not possible for me to assess exactly what  Mr Ms losses would be, so Ive 
based my assessment on the photos  Mr M provided.  Subject to any further information I 
might receive Im minded to ask Bright House to pay Mr M £100  for this. 
Mr H has said hes paid a lot of money for faulty goods and that if he doesnt receive 
compensation and refund  of payments he will make a legal case. While I must take account 
of the relevant law, as this is an informal dispute  resolution service Im not obliged to apply 
the same  remedy as, say, a court might apply. But Mr H is, of course, free to not accept my 
findings and take the matter further.  
Mr H has also complained  about  the calls Bright House made concerning  his arrears during 
the complaint  process. Bright House has accepted it shouldnt have made two calls.  But 
Mr H has said the communication was much more than that. As our investigator has said, if 
Mr H has further evidence  to support that I would be happy to consider  it. Without  that, I find 
that £40 is fair and reasonable.
Bright House accepted my provisional findings.  Mr H reiterated that he believed  the machine 
was faulty from the start and that he doesnt  consider  £100  covers the damages.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
depart from my provisional conclusions. 
Mr H has said he believes the machine was faulty from the start. While I accept this is a 
possibility I havent  seen enough evidence to determine whether the problems were inherent 
in the machine, were due to faulty  installation, whether they developed later or perhaps  were 
even caused by the bouncing around. And Bright House  has agreed to remove the machine 
and write  off the remaining  debt.
Mr H has also said that £100 does not cover  the damages to the clothes. Again Im not 
disputing this is a possibility. But as Mr H hasnt provided any further evidence that there is 
damage beyond  £100 I am not persuaded to amend the compensation. 
Ref: DRN02149354my final decision
My final decision is that Caversham Finance Limited, trading as Bright House should:
take back the faulty machine, at no cost to Mr H;
write-off the remaining  debt;
adjust Mr Hs credit file to the position  it was at the last payment  he made;
pay Mr H £100 as compensation for damage to clothing.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0214935