K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly rejected his claim brought under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act, 1974  (CCA).  He further complains that Barclays 
unreasonably delayed responding to his claim. He wants a refund of the cost price  of faulty 
items he purchased  using  his credit card.
background
Mr A tells us that in 2017 he purchased some electric windows from a company Ill refer to 
as R". He says the purchases were  for his own house  and also the house of another  family 
member. He explains the purchase  cost of £14,000 was paid by using his Barclays credit 
card. Mr A states that the windows werent of satisfactory quality and broke down. He said 
that it took R several months to inspect the goods and that it then asked  him for a further 
£4,000 to replace the motors. He says he declined to pay. Mr A says he took his complaint 
to Barclays and made a section 75 claim.  He states  that Barclays refused his claim on the 
basis that the contract for goods was with a company Ill refer to as S. And not with Mr A. 
Mr A states that he works for S and sent an email to R whilst at work. But he insists that the 
windows were for his personal use and paid for by him.
Barclays told us that section 75 requires certain criteria to be met for it to review a claim. 
This included the purchase being made by the cardholder in a personal capacity and as a 
consumer. It said the invoice for goods  had been  made out to S, a limited company. It said it 
didnt agree the purchase had been made  by Mr A as a consumer. Barclays stated that other  
criteria also applied. This included a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement  being in 
place. It said that as the invoice for goods  had been  made out to S there  was no link 
between itself, Mr A and the merchant (supplier) R. Barclays  acknowledged  in its final 
response letter of 20 March 2019  that there had been a delay in its investigation of Mr As 
complaint. And said it had credited  his account with £75.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 July 2020. I said in my provisional 
decision that I did not intend  to uphold the complaint. I indicated that I thought the debtor- 
creditor  supplier relationship had been  broken. As such, I didnt think Barclays  had acted 
unfairly when declining Mr As section  75 claim.
Both parties  have now replied to my provisional decision. Mr A has maintained  his position 
that he contracted with the suppliers  in a personal  capacity.  Barclays  said it didnt  have 
anything to add.
I thank both parties for their replies.  Ive not been provided with any further information which 
would cause me to change  my provisional view.  This is largely repeated in my final decision 
which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr A experienced  difficulties  with this purchase. And I recognise that having 
spent such a large sum of money  it would be disappointing when the goods proved to be 
less than satisfactory.
Ref: DRN01388842Barclays acknowledged its delay  in investigating the complaint and agreed to pay £75 to 
reflect this. I shant ask it to do anything further as I think this was a fair and reasonable 
resolution of that aspect.
Its important to set out my role here. In considering this complaint about a financial services  
provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 
75. Rather, Im deciding  whats a fair way to resolve Mr As complaint. I dont apply the law - 
directly  but I have  to take it into account, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. 
And Ive taken it into account.  But that doesnt mean  Im obliged to reach  the same outcome 
as, for example, a court might reach if Mr A pursued  a claim for breach of contract.
The general effect of section  75 is that if certain  conditions are met, and Mr A has a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  against  a supplier of goods or services, he can also 
bring that claim against the supplier of finance. Which here is Barclays.  One of those  
conditions is that there  must be a d-c-s relationship. Ill explain this in more  detail later.  But a 
key factor  is that for Mr A to have a claim under  section 75 he must have a contractual 
relationship with R.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here -I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
An order  for goods was placed with R which issued an invoice in the sum of £14,000 dated 
18 July 2017.  The invoice was made out to S - at an address which  is the registered office of 
S - on Company House records. Ive not been  supplied with any separate contract 
documentation or order form which shows that it was intended that Mr A and not S that was 
contracting with R. Mr A was employed by S at this time.
Its not disputed  that payment for the goods was made through  Mr As credit  account with 
Barclays. His credit card statement  shows  that two payments, each for £7,000, were made 
to R on 28 June and 18 July 2017.
Ive considered an email  dated 19 July 2017, which  Mr A feels proves that he personally (not 
S) was the customer of R. But I dont think that the email makes thing any clearer.  Heres 
why Ive reached that view.
The email  - which is essentially  an acknowledgement of proof  of payment - is headed:
Subject: RE: S
Under the heading Transaction Summary" theres an entry  which reads:  Customer  name: 
Mr A.
At best this is ambiguous. Its equally consistent with Mr A acting on behalf of S as of Mr A 
personally being the consumer.
Ive also considered the circumstances in which the order  was placed. Mr A has told us that 
when he was dealing  with R and negotiating a price, he did so by calling it from work and 
using the business email  account. He explains that he didnt appreciate the potential  
significance of this. And says he mistakenly  overlooked the matter when the invoice was 
issued to S.
Ref: DRN01388843Ive not been supplied  with any recordings of any telephone conversations relating to the 
pre-purchase negotiations.  Given the passage of time this isnt unusual. But there  seems  no 
reason why Mr A wouldve been  prevented from ensuring R knew it was he and not S who 
was purchasing the items. And unless it was made explicit that Mr A was a personal  
customer - its easy to see why R would consider it was contracting  with S. Its also not clear 
why Mr A wouldnt  have arranged for the invoice to be sent to him personally at his home 
address.
Its not unusual  for businesses to obtain  better discounts or more  favourable  terms than an 
individual consumer.  It remains a possibility that if R thought  S was the customer  it had an 
effect on the price. Im not able to say if this was a factor and - if it was - whether Mr A was 
aware of it. Mr A didnt  give our investigator permission to contact R so no further information 
from R has been obtained.
The d-c-s relationship  to which Ive referred earlier, means that for Mr As claim to succeed  
there needs to be pre-existing arrangements between Mr A, Barclays and the supplier of 
goods, R. Mr A used his Barclays credit  card to pay R. But in my opinion,  Mr A hasnt shown 
he personally had a contractual relationship with R. On a balance  of probabilities, I believe 
that the d-c-s link was broken here.
In my opinion, on the information that was available, Barclays was entitled to conclude  that 
the d-c-s link was broken.  And having  done  so, it was fair and reasonable for it to decline to 
review Mr As section 75 claim any further. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0138884