K821x#15complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs S took out in 1998.  It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.  
Ive decided that this PPI policy was most  likely mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs S, so it didnt have to check it was right for her. But 
it did have to give her information about the PPI that was clear,  fair, and not misleading,  so 
she could decide  for herself whether it was right for her.
The policy excluded claims resulting from pre-existing medical  conditions,  and Mrs S had 
such a condition which wouldnt have been covered. So she couldnt have claimed on the 
policy for everything she mightve expected  to be able to.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs S. From what shes told us, she had flare-ups that lead 
to serious complications,  and while at other  times her condition  was well-managed, it could 
also be severe for her. She had to take multiple forms of medication and have yearly  check-
ups. So it looks like, at the time of the sale, Mrs S probably wouldve considered this 
condition to be the most likely one to cause her to take time off. But under the policys terms, 
she couldnt claim for any time off for her condition, nor for anything  resulting from it.
I cant see that FICL gave  Mrs S clear information about this exclusion at the time of the 
sale. If it had, then I think its most  likely she would not have bought the policy.  So I think  
Mrs S has most likely lost out because  of the flaws  in the sale.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs S in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs S would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN08142652So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs S owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. Similarly, FICL can take off any refund Mrs S 
has already received for the commission part of this PPI policy,  so that she does not get 
refunded the same  thing twice.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs S would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% simple a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs S would  have owed each month without  PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs S paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs S 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should again  be 8% 
simple a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0814265