K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  about the delays  by Lighthouse  Advisory Services Limited (Lighthouse) 
which led to him missing the guarantee date for his pension  transfer. Mr L says that as a 
result he has suffered a financial loss for which he should be compensated.
background
In 2017, Mr L approached  Lighthouse  for advice about the transfer of his Defined  Benefit 
(DB) pension. Lighthouse agreed  to arrange  the transfer. However,  it confirmed three days 
before the guarantee transfer value end date that it would not be able to meet the deadline.
Subsequently, Mr L approached a new adviser firm who successfully transferred the DB 
pension into one of his existing pension plans. Hed also complained  to Lighthouse about its 
conduct and for failing to transfer  his pension within the required timescales.
Lighthouse accepted it had been at fault and eventually offered total compensation of £900.  
However, Mr L felt the amount was insufficient  as it did not account for the period of 
investment losses, and more importantly did not compensate him for the additional fees 
charged by his new adviser in comparison to the fees he wouldve paid to Lighthouse.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it should be upheld. He agreed  
that the calculation of investment losses was insufficient, and hadnt  taken into account the 
full period for which Mr L had been  denied  access to his funds due to the delay in transfer. 
Therefore he recommended a higher amount of compensation. 
On the other hand, he did not believe that Lighthouse should compensate Mr L for the 
additional fees he had paid his new adviser.  This was ultimately because the higher fees 
paid for advice on the transfer was Mr Ls choice  and he could have  selected  a cheaper 
alternative. 
Lighthouse accepted the adjudicators view and agreed to compensate  Mr L in line with his 
recommendations. However,  Mr L still felt he should be compensated for the additional 
adviser fees and so requested that Lighthouse consider increasing  its compensation  to 
include this amount. 
Lighthouse did not agree to compensate Mr L for additional adviser fees. It also considered 
that if the transfer had gone  ahead as initially planned, and Mr L had invested in the funds  
which he had used  in one of his examples to demonstrate losses, then Mr L would now have 
been worse off. 
In light of this, it withdrew its offer of compensation in line with the adjudicators 
recommendations and reverted  back to the original  amount.
As agreement was not reached the matter has been referred to me.
 
my findings
Ref: DRN05523702I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Lighthouse initially  made an offer of compensation in line with the adjudicators 
recommendation but Mr L says this does not fully compensate him for his losses  with 
specific reference to the higher fee he paid to another adviser, compared to what Lighthouse 
would have charged.
Consequently, the only matter I need to decide  here is what  represents fair compensation for 
Lighthouses acknowledged failings in respect  of the transfer.  It is not necessary for me to 
repeat or determine the substance of Mr Ls complaint  because  Lighthouse has already  
acknowledged the delay of the transfer of Mr Ls funds. 
I have noted the exchanges between the partys  in respect of the funds Mr L says he would 
have invested  in had the transfer proceeded as planned and been completed by Lighthouse 
before the guarantee expiry date. I cannot decide  with any certainty which funds  Mr L would 
have invested  in. In my view, the submissions  by both parties in this respect are either 
speculative or assertions  unsupported by persuasive evidence either way.
I therefore do not accept either partys representations in respect of this discrete issue  and I 
have not factored in the value or otherwise of these  funds in reaching  my decision.
But on the other hand, whilst I appreciate Mr L had to go to another adviser to complete his 
transfer, I am not persuaded  this could only have been done by an adviser  charging  
considerably more than Lighthouse would have done. 
I have not seen persuasive  evidence to show that Mr L obtained competing quotes from 
other advisers or that the adviser he eventually  chose  gave  an unequivocal guarantee to 
complete the transfer within a specified  timeline.
I therefore do not accept his argument that he was forced to choose the alternative,  higher 
cost adviser he eventually instructed  because a higher cost adviser would inevitably 
complete the transfer within a guaranteed timescale.
I have noted that in Mr Ls original complaint to Lighthouse, Mr L quantified  his losses (in his 
email to Lighthouse  of 11th May 2018) as being £2370.47. I also note that in response to the 
adjudicators assessment,  Lighthouse  offered to pay Mr L £2038.59.
Mr L rejected the offer as he said not did not cover all his losses and notably the higher 
adviser fee he incurred.  Lighthouse then withdrew  its offer on the basis  that Mr L had 
benefitted from the delayed transfer  due to price  movements in various investments.
As I have not been persuaded by Lighthouses argument that the fund values should be 
taken into account  or by Mr Ls argument  that the higher adviser fees should  be reimbursed 
by Lighthouse, I have decided instead to take a pragmatic approach to redress.  
I have noted that in Mr Ls original complaint to Lighthouse, Mr L quantified  his losses (in his 
email to Lighthouse  of 11th May 2018) as being £2370.47. I also note that in response to the 
adjudicators assessment,  Lighthouse  offered to pay Mr L £2038.59.
I think a reasonable  compromise would be for Lighthouse to reinstate its offer to Mr L.
Ref: DRN05523703I appreciate this probably means that both Lighthouse and Mr L will not be wholly  satisfied 
with my decision. Lighthouse will say that it is making a higher payment than it considers 
reasonable. Mr L will say that he still bears some loss caused by Lighthouse.
But however  the redress  is calculated, its quantum,  rather than its constituent parts,  is the 
pertinent point.  I am persuaded that the sum offered to Mr L by Lighthouse is sufficiently 
close to the losses  claimed by Mr L that it is a fair, reasonable  and pragmatic compromise to 
settle this complaint.
fair compensation
In assessing fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr L as close as possible to the position 
he would  reasonably now be in but for the delays caused by Lighthouse.
what must Lighthouse do?
To compensate  Mr L fairly it must:
1)  Assuming Mr L's transfer had completed on 21 November 2017 , calculate the        
interest, at 8% simple,  which would have accrued from this date, to 10 April 2018.  
2) After taking into account any investment  losses already  paid to Mr L, it should pay into 
his pension plan,  to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any 
interest. The payment  should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  
It should not pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection  or allowance.
If unable to pay the compensation into Mr L's pension plan, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it should  be reduced  to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.
The notional allowance  should be calculated using Mr L's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected  retirement age.
For example, if Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr L would have been able 
to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should  be applied to 75% of the compensation.
It must provide the details of the calculation to Mr L in a clear,  simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest  paid. If it considers that it is required by
HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how 
much has been deducted  and give Mr L a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct  Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited to pay compensation to Mr L in line with the 
principles of the recommendation of our adjudicator  as set out above and in accordance with 
its previous offer to Mr L of 24 October  2018. 
Ref: DRN05523704Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.                          .
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0552370