K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that Astrenska Insurance Limited will not reimburse him under his 
residential landlords home emergency  cover for the cost of using his engineer  to fix a 
central heating problem.
background
Mr J is a landlord, and one of his tenants contacted him in November 2018 to report  a 
problem with the central heating in the property that they were renting from him. Mr J has a 
residential landlords home emergency  cover policy with Astrenska, so he contacted it for 
assistance. Astrenska  said it would send one of its contractors  to the property later that day 
and that they would give Mr J 30 minutes  notice before arrival. 
Mr J tells us that he had contacted Astrenska about  a similar  issue before and it took too 
long to get resolved. So Mr J tells us that he asked Astrenska if he could use his own 
engineer to fix the issue, and he cancelled Astrenskas contractor shortly before they were 
due to arrive.  Mr J says Astrenska told him that would be fine. Mr J asked Astrenska  to cover 
the cost of his engineer. 
Astrenska said that even though it agreed to cancel its contractor, it was able to provide one 
the same  day Mr J made his claim. So it did not agree  to cover the cost for Mr Js engineer. 
Astrenska acknowledged  that its contractor called  Mr J shortly  before they were  due to arrive 
rather than 30 minutes  before, but it said this had no impact.  Mr J wasnt happy  with the 
response, so brought the complaint to our service  to consider.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said the policy  wouldnt 
cover any costs incurred without prior agreement.  He also said that Astrenska had acted in 
line with the policy and hadnt  agreed  to cover  the cost of Mr Js engineer. So he didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr J didnt agree with assessment, so the case has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js policy  is intended to provide quick help if there  is a problem in the property arising  
from an incident that is covered under the policy. The policy sets out that Astrenska would 
arrange for an approved contractor to assess the situation and carry out repairs. The policy 
also has certain exclusions. It sets out that Astrenska wont  cover: 
Any costs  incurred when  You have not notified  Us and received Our prior agreement.
Mr J wants Astrenska to cover the cost of his engineer. So what  I need to decide is whether 
Astrenska were notified about  the engineer and whether or not it agreed to cover the cost. 
Astrenska has provided us with copies of two call recordings that took place when  Mr J 
contacted it about the problems with his boiler. At no point during the two calls did Astrenska 
agree to cover the cost if Mr J decided to use his engineer.
Ref: DRN02464742During the first call, the agent let Mr J know that Astrenska had managed  to arrange for a 
contractor to visit him that evening and that they would contact him before arrival. Mr J 
acknowledged this but said if there was a problem he could ask his neighbour (who  was a 
qualified engineer) to visit the property. Astrenskas  agent reassured Mr J that the contractor 
would contact him 30 minutes before  they arrived that evening.  
Mr J contacted Astrenska  afterwards to say that hed asked his engineer  to visit the property. 
However, Astrenskas contractor had contacted him shortly  before they were  due to arrive. 
Mr J asked Astrenska to cancel its contractor. Astrenska explained that it wouldnt be able to 
cover the cost of Mr Js engineer because it had arranged to provide its contractor. Mr J was 
unhappy because  Astrenskas contractor contacted him when he was about to arrive,  and 
not when he was around 30 minutes away.   
Later on in the call, Mr J said that he would continue to use his engineer  because  he felt that 
if he were to rely on Astrenskas contractor,  he thought it likely the problem might take a few 
days to resolve. Astrenska let Mr J know about how it would handle the claim if work were 
required to the boiler.  It let him know that it could raise a complaint for him but it reiterated  
that it wouldnt be able to cover the cost of Mr Js engineer because it had been able to 
arrange a contractor to visit the property within 24 hours of being notified of the problem. 
Mr J remained  of the view that hed get his engineer  to visit and that hed ask them to 
contact Astrenska direct if anything was required.
Mr J was understandably concerned that his tenants  would have to stay in a property without  
a working boiler  in winter if Astrenskas contractor wasnt able to fix the problem straight  
away. But he didnt know that would definitely be the case  when he decided to arrange his 
engineer to visit the property. 
I can understand it could  have been  inconvenient that Mr J wasnt  given  30 minutes notice 
before Astrenskas contractor arrived. But I dont think  this would have  had a significant 
impact on Mr J. It seems  that Mr J had already asked his engineer to visit the property. So I 
dont find that Mr J lost out as a result of Astrenskas  engineer failing to provide 30 minutes  
notice of their arrival.  
I also have to bear in mind that Astrenska didnt  agree at any point to cover the cost of Mr Js 
engineer. Mr Js policy doesnt say that Astrenska is required to pay for the cost of his 
engineer. It offered to send a contractor  to view the property within 24 hours. So I dont  think 
its acted unfairly when dealing with his claim.  Therefore Im not going  to direct it to take any 
action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0246474