K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T have  the benefit of travel insurance  as part of a current account. They
complain that U K Insurance Limited refused their claim against  the policy.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
29 November 2019, an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I 
wont repeat  that information here.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I intended to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. I 
said I intended to direct UKI to deal with their claim without the requirement of a medical  
practitioner confirming  in writing that curtailment was medically necessary and to pay interest 
on the amount  of the claim.
responses to my provisional  decision  
Mr and Mrs T said they had nothing further to add. UKI said it accepted the provisional 
decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr and Mrs T nor UKI have  provided me with anything  further on the 
complaint, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. So, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision,  I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint. To put matters  right, UKI should  deal with the claim under the remaining terms of 
the policy without  the requirement of a medical  practitioner confirming in writing that 
curtailment was medically necessary. It should  also pay interest on the amount of the claim.
Ref: DRN00069362my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I now require 
U K Insurance Limited to:
deal with the claim under the remaining terms of the policy  without the 
requirement of a medical practitioner confirming  in writing that curtailment was 
medically necessary;
pay interest on the amount of the claim at the simple rate of 8% per year,  
from the date of the claim to the date UKI makes the payment*;
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  UKI to take off tax from this interest. UKI must  give
Mr and Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 January 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00069363extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs T have the benefit of travel insurance  as part of a current account.  They complain that U K 
Insurance Limited refused their claim against  the policy.
background
Mr and Mrs T planned a walking  holiday  in the UK 18-25  August 2018.  On 19 August 2018,  Mrs T 
slipped and fractured  her ankle. Because of the nature of the location  and injury, she was airlifted to 
hospital late in the evening of that day and was admitted  to the hospital early on 20 August 2018.
Mrs T was fitted with a moon boot and crutches and told that her leg should be raised and 
movement kept to a minimum.  She was discharged from hospital on 20 August  2018.
Mr and Mrs T decided  that they couldnt  continue  their holiday and returned home. That was because 
Mrs Ts mobility was limited,  they were staying in a very rural location and the layout and facilities  of 
their accommodation  were  unsuitable
Mrs T says its unreasonable  for UKI to insist  on a medical certificate that says she couldnt have 
stayed in the accommodation after the accident. She says that she spoke to her GP about this who 
said it wouldnt be possible  to provide such a certificate without a full assessment  of the injury and 
the accommodation  to determine suitability.  This was neither practical nor possible,  given the time 
that had elapsed. Mr and Mrs T want UKI to settle the claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt  think that UKI had acted fairly in 
declining the claim. The investigator said that Mrs T was on a walking holiday and broke her ankle, 
so she couldnt have continued with the holiday.  She said that given the location of the holiday, there 
wasnt anything Mrs T could have done instead.  The investigator said that UKI should pay the claim 
for accommodation  for the period after Mrs T
broke her ankle.
UKI didnt agree  with the investigator. It said neither  the investigator nor its agents are medically  
trained so cant say whether a claim  should be accepted or not. UKI said that it sent Mrs T a 
medical certificate for completion by her GP, which  she refused to return, in breach  of the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules  and industry guidance  say that UKI has a responsibility  to handle claims  
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt  reject a claim unreasonably
Ref: DRN00069364The starting  point is the terms and conditions of the policy,  which provide:
D  Curtailment (cutting a journey short) 
What you are covered  for
Part One:  Curtailment due to early return
We will reimburse up to £5,000 per insured person for
a)  Unused travel  and accommodation  expenses []
Claims conditions
In addition  to anything mentioned in the General Conditions, we will only pay
[]
2. claims  that are a result  of an accident or illness when a medical  practitioner confirms in writing  
that curtailment is medically necessary.
Claims settlement
1.You must provide us with all documentation reasonably necessary in support of your claim.  []
By saying  reasonably necessary we mean documents  such as
a)  A medical certificate in the event of a medical  condition necessitating your early 
return [].
So, UKI acted within the policy terms in asking for a medical certificate confirming that 
curtailment was necessary. But I dont think that leads  to a fair outcome here. Ill explain why.
I dont think that a medical certificate  from Mrs Ts GP would assist here, as she wasnt the treating 
doctor in relation to the injury at the time of the holiday.  Mrs T doesnt have a medical certificate 
from the doctor who treated her after the accident which says that
curtailment was medically necessary but I dont think that means that UKI shouldnt deal with her 
claim.
Mrs T has provided a hospital discharge  notification that confirms the date she was admitted
and discharged from hospital and the fact that she had a fractured ankle. She has also provided a 
fitness to work  form dated 23 August 2018 which  confirms her injury and says that she wont be fit 
to work for three weeks. So, Im satisfied that Mrs Ts injury was as she describes. In the particular 
circumstances here, I dont think its reasonable for UKI to insist on a medical certificate which  says 
that curtailment was medically necessary. Mrs T clearly couldnt continue  her walking holiday.  
Given the location  there  was little else for an immobile holidaymaker to do.
The layout and facilities of the holiday accommodation arent the central issue here: Mr and Mrs Ts 
walking holiday was curtailed because Mrs T couldnt walk. But for completeness, I should say that I 
accept what Mrs T says about the holiday accommodation  not being suitable  for someone with her 
injury.
Its clear that Mrs T needed  a travelling  companion to get home, as she couldnt drive. So both Mr 
and Mrs Ts holiday was cut short.
Considering everything, I think UKI should deal with the claim under  the remaining  terms of the 
policy, without the requirement of a medical  practitioner confirming in writing that curtailment was 
medically necessary.
As settlement of the claim has been delayed, UKI should also pay interest on the amount of the 
claim at the simple rate of 8% per year,  from the date of the claim,  to the date UKI makes the 
payment.
Ref: DRN00069365my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my provisional decision is that I uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.  I intend to require U K Insurance Limited  to;
deal with the claim under the remaining terms of the policy without the requirement of a 
medical practitioner  confirming in writing that curtailment was medically necessary;
pay interest on the amount of the claim  at the simple rate of 8% per year,  from the 
date of the claim to the date UKI makes the payment*;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UKI to take off tax from this interest. UKI must give
Mr and Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN0006936