K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Nationwide Building Society, trading as Cheshire Building Society 
(Nationwide), mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out their initial mortgage  in 1980.  They took out further advances  in 1981, 
1985 and 1993.
They were  sold a PPI policy  at some point  between 1980 and 1993. Nationwide  think that it 
was most likely sold alongside the further  advance in 1985,  because it started selling PPI to 
protect mortgages around 1984/1985. The policy  was in Mr Cs name only. The PPI provided  
cover for disability only, so an accident or sickness that meant Mr C was unable to work.
 
In December 1992, Nationwide made a commercial decision to withdraw this type of PPI 
policy. The PPI policy was replaced  by another PPI policy and this provided cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. Nationwide wrote out to its customers  informing them  
the existing PPI was being withdrawn and explaining  that they could apply  for the new PPI.
Mr and Mrs C completed  an application  form in January 1993 for Nationwides  new PPI 
which included unemployment cover.  Again the PPI was in the name of Mr C only. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into this complaint.  They concluded that there wasnt  much 
evidence about  the earlier existing policy taken at some point in the 1980s, and after a 
discussion with Mr and Mrs C, it was agreed that they were happy for the adjudicator to look 
into the sale of the 1993  policy  only.
The adjudicator having looked  at the sale of the 1993 PPI policy thought  the complaint 
should be upheld.  
The adjudicator considered that as Mr C was self-employed  the terms of the policy meant  it 
was harder for him to make a successful claim.  They  considered that had this been made 
clear to Mr C, then Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have bought the policy. So the adjudicator 
recommended that Nationwide place  Mr and Mrs C in the position as if they hadnt  been sold 
the PPI.
Nationwide disagreed. It said it didnt provide any advice or make a recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs C to take the policy. So it says that its obligation was to provide Mr and Mrs C 
with information  about the policy  including drawing the terms and conditions  to 
Mr and Mrs C attention.  It said that it did this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
First, I would like to clarify that it has been  agreed with Mr and Mrs C that this complaint and 
final decision  will only focus  on the sale of the 1993 policy. 
Ref: DRN09381522And having looked at this complaint, I agree with our adjudicator  and think  it should be 
upheld. 
I agree,  from looking at the evidence available, that Nationwide  didnt go as far as to make a 
formal recommendation  after assessing Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances to take the policy.  
Mr and Mrs C had to complete a postal  application  for the PPI. 
But what  this does  mean, is that Nationwide had to explain  to Mr and Mrs C about the policy  
in a clear,  fair and not misleading way so Mr and Mrs C could make a fully informed decision 
about the PPI.
Mr C was self-employed. So Ive looked  at what Mr and Mrs C were told about  the policy at 
the point of sale.
Nationwide say that Mr and Mrs C would have been  sent a leaflet highlighting the benefits  
and limitations. And after taking the PPI, Mr and Mrs C would have been sent the full policy  
document.
I have read the PPI leaflet from December 1992.  While it does highlight some main  
exclusions  including  unemployment exclusions, it doesnt reference what it requires from a 
consumer who is self-employed. That information  is contained within the policy  document  
which Mr and Mrs C would have received after taking the policy.
The policy document states:
In respect  of self-employed  persons, satisfactory  proof must also be provided  that,
the decision to cease trading was due entirely to the financial insolvency of 
the insured persons business and
the insured  person has notified  the Inland  Revenue that he/she has ceased 
trading and has filed closing accounts
Having considered these terms, Mr C, as a subcontractor, would have had to provide proof 
that his decision  to cease trading was due entirely  to the financial insolvency of his business.  
An employed person  would  only need  to provide evidence that they had registered as 
unemployed with the Department  for Employment. 
So the terms that Mr C needed to meet in order for an unemployment claim to be successful  
were considerably more  difficult than that for an employed person. And they werent brought  
to Mr Cs attention at the point of sale.
Had Mr and Mrs C been made aware  of what Mr C was required to do in order to claim for 
unemployment, I dont  think they would have  thought the PPI was right for them and wouldnt 
have taken out the PPI.
I have taken into account Nationwides response to our adjudicator,  but for the reasons given 
above these dont change my opinion.
putting things right
Ref: DRN09381523Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs C in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
the PPI policy. Nationwide should:
Pay Mr and Mrs C the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year before April 1993  and 8% a year thereafter.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide  can take off what  they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide must  give 
Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and direct  Nationwide  Building Society to pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0938152