K822xcomplaint
Mrs R complains Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) wont cover the full cost of repairs to 
her roof following a claim she made on her buildings insurance policy for storm damage.
Mrs R is being represented  in this complaint, but for ease Ive referred  to all actions and 
comments as being those of Mrs R.
background 
In March 2018 Mrs R made  a claim to Ageas for storm damage.  She reported  missing tiles 
from her roof, and damage to a shed and summerhouse. 
Ageas accepted the claim and Mrs R got a quote  from a builder for the repairs.  The quote  
came to around £2,200 for the roof repairs. Ageas sent a surveyor  to the property a couple 
of days after the storm. He agreed  there  had been  damaged caused by the storm, but 
thought it would cost around £1,400 to replace this damage.
Mrs R didnt accept this amount and asked Ageas to reconsider. She was due to go on 
holiday shortly after the storm  so she paid for the work to be done.  Ageas reviewed the 
quote from the builder  and said some  of the work  that had been  done to her roof wasnt  
consistent with storm damage repairs. It said the builder included  repairs  to guttering, but it 
didnt look like this had been damaged. It also said slate tiles had been  replaced, but Ageas 
didnt think damage  to these had been caused  to these  by the storm.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 December  2018  explaining why I 
thought it should be upheld and what I thought  Ageas needed to do to put things right.  In it I 
said:
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three  questions:
has it been proven,  on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the 
date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage consistent  with storm damage?
were the prevailing  storm  conditions  the main or dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then the claim will succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is no  the claim wont succeed  under this 
section.
Ageas has accepted that a storm happened, so I dont need to consider this as part of 
the complaint.  It has also paid for repairs for the shed and summerhouse which Mrs R 
has accepted.  But, I do need to consider whether the settlement Ageas has offered for 
the damage to the roof is fair or not, as this is still in dispute.
The main  difference  between  Mrs Rs quote  and Ageas report  is for the cost of repairing 
the ridge and hip tiles on the roof. Mrs Rs builder quoted her around  £1,400  for this part 
of the work. Ageas  report  says the cost should  be around £440.  The builders quote 
says slates either side of the ridge and hip tiles were replaced as new.  Ageas said this 
isnt required,  so it wont cover the cost of this.
Ref: DRN09369422Having looked  at it Ive reached a different outcome to that of the investigator.  And I think  
Ageas should  pay the remainder of the builders invoice, including for the damaged  
guttering.
Ive reviewed the reports from Ageas surveyor in line with the quote from Mrs Rs builder 
and Mrs Rs comments. The surveyors report doesnt mention that the tiles along the 
ridge have  been  damaged. And looking at the photos I havent been able to identify any 
damage to these. But I dont think this means  they didnt need to be removed.
Mrs R says the builder said it was necessary for those  tiles to be removed and replaced 
in order to put the new hip and ridge  tiles on. Looking at the photos I can see a large  
amount of cement  was still on the slate tiles either  side of the ridge and hip tiles. I think  
removing this cement could have caused damage to the tiles underneath as Mrs Rs 
builder has suggested.  So I dont think its an unreasonable cost that Mrs R has incurred 
to repair  her roof, and the work was carried out in order to put the damage caused by the 
storm right. So I think Ageas should pay the full amount quoted  by the builder for this. 
The builder  also quoted £250 for 10 random broken slates to be replaced. Ageas report  
only noted two broken  slates  on the roof, so it said it wouldnt pay this part. It said the 
surveyor thought  damage to the others was caused by wear  and tear, rather  than storm 
damage. But the report doesnt say why it accepts two tiles have been damaged by the 
storm, but the others havent. So I dont find the surveyors report persuasive on this 
point.
There are some photos of the roof showing broken individual slate tiles. And they are 
underneath the line where the ridge tiles have come off. So I think it is probable  that the 
ridge tiles have caused this damage as Mrs R has described. So even though I accept 
storm winds themselves would be unlikely to cause  this damage, I think the damage to 
the slates was probably due to the large  amount of ridge tiles that came off. So I think  
Ageas should  also pay the £250  Mrs R paid to have  these replaced. 
Ageas accepted the provisional  decision. Mrs R also accepted it. She said she hadnt  
accepted an interim payment from Ageas, so the whole invoice would need  to be paid, less 
her excess.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new, I see no reason  to depart from the findings I set 
out in my provisional  decision.
Mrs R has said Ageas hasnt made  a payment  to her as she wanted  to wait for the complaint 
to be resolved before accepting it. So Ageas should  pay the full value of the invoice she 
received from her builder, which was £2,193.60. It should also pay the £125 Mrs R paid for 
repairs to the shed and summerhouse.  This is before the policy  excess is taken into account.
Ref: DRN09369423my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay:
£2,193.60  for the repairs to the roof
£125 for the repairs to shed and summer house
minus the applicable excess
interest on whatever  it has left to pay (less anything  thats  already been  paid)  at 8% 
simple per year,  from the date of the invoice until the date of settlement.*
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Ageas Insurance  Limited deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mrs R how much has been taken off. Ageas 
Insurance Limited should give Mrs R a tax deduction certificate if it asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ageas should  do this within 28 days of us telling it Mrs Rs accepted my final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0936942