K820x#14complaint
Mrs Rs complaint against Perspective  (North East) Limited is about the advice it gave
her to transfer the benefits out of her occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a group 
personal pension  plan. 
background
One of our investigators  sent her assessment  of the complaint to Mrs R on 10 September 
2020. She set out the background to the complaint in that assessment. But in brief, Mrs Rs 
employer wrote to her making  a one-off offer of an enhanced transfer  value to transfer  her 
benefits out of the employers OPS. The funding level of the scheme at the time was 66.6%. 
Mrs R met with an adviser from the firm in February 2007. A Transfer Value Analysis was 
completed which compared the benefits available through her employers scheme with what  
Mrs R might have  been able to achieve  by transferring the benefits.
The investigator said the report showed that if Mrs R transferred the funds would need to  
achieve an investment  return  of 8.3%  a year to exceed the benefits  of her employers 
scheme based on a number  of assumptions. 
Mrs R decided to transfer her benefits  and take an immediate cash  sum which was also part 
of the offer.
The investigator didnt  think that Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld.  She noted that in the 
pension transfer  report dated 21 February 2007  Perspective had said that it couldnt
recommend that Mrs R transfer her benefits. It said the funds transferred would require 
growth of 8.3% in order to exceed  the benefits  of the employers scheme. Perspective felt 
that this wasnt achievable.  It also explained  that although the employers scheme was 
underfunded Mrs R had some protection though the Pension Protection  Fund.
Perspective explained that by transferring her benefits she would need  to take a significant 
degree of investment risk, and then be rewarded  for that risk, in order  to achieve a higher 
pension in retirement. Perspective said that her pension may also be considerably less 
secure if she were to transfer  her benefits.
In its letter  dated  22 February 2007  Perspective said:
Just to remind you I recommended you should not transfer for the following reasons:
I cannot recommend  that you transfer  to a Personal  Pension Plan.  The benefits within [the 
employers] Pension  Scheme are promised at retirement. Whereas an investment growth  in 
excess of 8.3% would be required in order to exceed those  benefits.  By transferring you 
would be transferring the investment risk from the scheme to yourself.
In addition, because  you have elected to take the cash incentive, the critical yield will be 
much greater than quoted  in the initial report. This did not concern you and your prime  
objective was to access the cash incentive irrespective of the effect this has on your 
retirement income.
Mrs R wrote to Perspective on 13 March 2007 confirming that she wanted  to receive the 
cash incentive on offer. This was a change  to her original decision of consolidation with her 
transfer value.  The investigator thought this showed  that Mrs R had considered her options.
Ref: DRN02685062The investigator understood from her conversation with Mrs R that she felt pressured  to 
transfer her benefits  because her employer had told her that keeping  the pension going 
could mean  that there would be job losses. The investigator said she hadnt  seen  any 
evidence to suggest that Perspective had advised this was the case  or pressurised Mrs R 
into transferring her benefits.
Mrs R didnt accept the investigators findings.  She said there were a large number of people  
who had been  deemed to have been  treated unfairly and had received a large amount of 
their pension money back; including her daughter. But there were six people  who had been 
told they were treated  fairly by Perspective,  and got nothing. 
Mrs R said she couldnt understand how Perspective came to the conclusion  that some  
people didn't have a shortfall and the rest did; they all worked  at the same  place and all put 
into the same pension.  She said they had all talked about the transfer to each other and she 
felt obliged to transfer because she thought jobs were at risk and not knowing anything  
about pensions  and transfers  she thought it was the best thing to do.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Rs feelings about the matter  given that some of her colleagues received 
compensation following the review  of the advice theyd been given, but she didnt. However, 
as I explained  in my jurisdiction decision  dated  14 April 2020, Im only able to consider     
Mrs Rs complaint about the original advice to transfer her pension. Im not able to consider 
a complaint about the handling  of the s.166  review because it wasnt a regulated  activity.   
Having said that, I think its worth explaining that whilst I understand why Mrs R may think  
her circumstances are the same  as colleagues who received  compensation, there are 
several interrelated  factors  that are taken into account in deciding the issue; seemingly minor 
differences between  members circumstances can lead to different outcomes.
In considering the original transfer,  the report given to Mrs R at the time of the advice 
outlined her options that included, as well as transferring, staying in the scheme and leaving 
the benefits where they were. The report also said the employers pension scheme was 
66.6% funded, but that if the employer was to become insolvent and the scheme  wound up 
with insufficient  assets to meet its liabilities, then Mrs Rs benefits  would be protected,  to 
some extent, through the Pension  Protection Fund. It said this effectively meant 90% of her 
pension would be safe.
 
The documentary evidence clearly  shows Perspectives  advice  was not to transfer because 
the adviser felt the investment growth  of 8.3%  was too high. I note that in the advisers letter  
dated 22 February 2007 referred to by the investigator he also said:
Further to my earlier report I am writing  to confirm you have decided  to not take our advice 
and instead transfer from the [employers pension scheme] into a personal pension plan. 
You have  done  this because you want to consolidate your pensions  regardless of the risk 
you are taking and accept the critical yield of 8.3%. The letter also reminded  Mrs R that 
Perspectives recommendation  was not to transfer  because of the investment growth 
required.
Ref: DRN02685063A further  letter was sent to Mrs R on 23 February  2007. This also confirmed that Mrs R had 
decided not to take the advice she had been  given, and instead  she wanted to transfer  her 
pension to her employers group personal  pension plan.
However thats not the end of the matter. Perspective went onto arrange the transfer.  
Perspective should have treated Mrs R as an insistent customer  a technical term for 
someone who insists on pressing ahead with a transaction despite being  advised by a firm 
against it. 
Its not entirely clear  to me that Perspective  did treat Mrs R as an insistent client.  But either 
way, a technical failing doesnt necessarily result in being awarded compensation where 
theres no material impact on the outcome i.e. that Mrs R would have transferred in any 
event. 
One the one hand, Mrs R was putting a pension at retirement age of about £2,609 a year at 
significant risk. On the other, I think the evidence suggests she, and her colleagues, had real 
worries about the employers ongoing financial position and their future job security in the 
event that members decided to leave their benefits in the employers scheme.
In this context, and taking everything into account,  I think Mrs R was motivated to transfer 
because of those  worries.  In all the circumstances, I dont think  Perspectives  actions  is the 
cause of any financial losses  that Mrs R has sustained.
my final decision
I realise that Mrs R will be very disappointed with my decision. However for the reasons I 
have outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 December 2020.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0268506