K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Gain Credit  LLC,  trading as Lending  Stream, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr H took out a six-month instalment loan with Lending Stream  in 2014. The loan was for 
£200, with the highest  monthly repayment  being £120.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Hs complaint and didnt think it should  be upheld.  Mr H didnt 
agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr H could repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
I think the steps Lending Stream  took before lending to Mr H were reasonable and 
proportionate. It asked Mr H about his monthly income and expenditure, which  Mr H 
declared as £1,200 and £350  respectively. This suggested Mr H had adequate disposable 
income to afford the loan repayments  he was committed to making. Lending Stream  also 
carried out a credit check which suggested Mr H had few other  active credit accounts and no 
defaulted or delinquent  accounts. 
I wouldnt have expected Lending  Stream to do more than this when assessing  the 
affordability of a loan of this size, in Mr Hs circumstances. Overall, I think  it was reasonable 
for Lending Stream to approve this loan.
I understand Mr H thinks the credit  score Lending  Streams generated for him was 
ridiculous. But ultimately, the score   which was internal to Lending Stream   is just a 
reflection of how creditworthy Mr H was, from its point of view. Ive looked at all of the factors 
Lending Stream used  to make its decision and, as Ive said above, I do not think  it acted 
unfairly. 
Ref: DRN09329012Ive also seen that Mr H has mentioned a membership fee he says he paid to 
Lending Stream, which hes unhappy about.  Ive seen no evidence  of such a fee, but in any 
event, I cant comment  on this as the alleged charging of a membership fee didnt form part 
of Mr Hs original  complaint.
Finally, I note that Mr Hs complaint was first made by a claims management company 
(CMC). Mr H says he never authorised  the CMC and so Im unsure whether the points it 
made are even relevant, to Mr H  although the form on which the complaint points were set 
out appears to bear his signature. For completeness,  Ive seen no evidence  that Mr H was 
pressured to take out (or extend) the loan by Lending Stream. And the various pieces of 
information the CMC says Lending Stream didnt provide  including the cost of the finance, 
the dates payments were due, how to cancel  a continuous payment authority and how to 
make a complaint   are all set out in the loan agreement. Lending Stream  was also under no 
duty to proactively ask about Mr Hs mental health   it only had to respond sympathetically if 
it became aware  this was an issue and Ive not seen that Mr H contacted  Lending Stream  to 
make it aware of any health issues.
I realise this is a disappointing outcome for Mr H but for the reasons give above, I do not 
uphold his complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Hs complaint against  Gain Credit LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0932901