K821x#15complaint
Ms Ss complaint is about the service provided  by U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI) in relation to 
her home emergency insurance policy.
background
In October  2017, Ms Ss boiler broke down so she made a claim under her policy  with UKI. 
UKIs contractors attended and said that some new parts  were  needed  for the boiler, the 
cost of which would exceed the claim limit under the policy  so Ms S would have  to pay 
towards the costs.  
Ms S made the payment (of around £116) and the contractors re-attended on 1 November 
2017 to carry  out the agreed  work. On 6 November 2017, Ms S called to complain about the 
contractor. She said he had recorded on the job sheet left with her that he had spent  an hour 
more working at her property than he really had. Ms S says the engineer made the job last 
longer than it need to and, as she was required  to pay towards  the cost based  on the labour 
charges taking the cost over the policy limit, she should receive this money back. Ms S says 
he sat outside  her house for ages after he left, which means  that if UKI checked  on his 
tracker it would appear he was still working. Ms S also said the contractor asked her 
inappropriate questions. Ms S also said she was not certain the contractor had repaired her 
boiler properly  and was getting an independent  engineer to have a look at her boiler.
The independent engineer attended  on 13 November  2017 and reported that the boiler flue 
had not been connected properly, allowing gases to escape. Ms S says the flue was just sat 
on top of the boiler and not connected/sealed. When she turned the boiler  on after the 
engineer left, steam was going everywhere,  which is why she had the boiler looked at by a 
private engineer.  
Ms S told the engineer  she had been  feeling unwell  and so the independent  engineer 
advised that she and her young son attend the doctor. Ms S says she was diagnosed  with 
carbon monoxide  poisoning following some tests at the hospital; and the vet also confirmed 
the same  for her puppy. 
Ms S is extremely upset by this and says it could easily have been fatal for her and her son. 
Ms S also apparently told UKI that on 16 November 2018, the gas supplier came and turned 
her boiler off. 
UKI says that the independent  engineer  should  have provided  a RIDDOR report to Gas Safe 
under health  and safety legislation, if the flue had been left in a dangerous state and without 
such a report, it could not investigate her complaint further. UKI said her engineer  reported  
that he had repaired  the flue and left the boiler in working order, so there would have been 
no need for it to have  been turned off by the gas supplier if this was the case. Also it said he 
had not provided  carbon monoxide readings  to confirm this was leaking. UKI says is report  is 
not detailed enough. Given this and the fact that neither the engineer nor the gas supplier  
seem to have reported any issue to Gas Safe, theres not enough evidence that its engineer  
acted incorrectly. 
UKI also says that Ms S signed the job sheet  with the attendance times  on. This sheet  also  
had a handwritten  annotation (presumably from Ms S) which  confirmed the contractor had 
been there for over three hours (albeit  less time than he had entered).  UKI says it would not 
have made  any difference in cost to Ms S, as the labour costs are a fixed  fee for up to three 
Ref: DRN03548742hours work: as she confirms he was therefore  for more than three  hours, it makes no 
difference if it is 10 minutes  more or 50 minutes  more.
UKI also says that Ms S had the chance  on the job sheet to rate the service provided.  She 
had circled options to feedback on the communication and workmanship of the contractor 
indicating a score  of excellent for both. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He concluded that it should  be upheld.  The 
investigator did not consider it was reasonable to refuse to investigate  the complaint  in the 
absence of a RIDDOR report. He also considered that the evidence from the independent 
engineer and the medical evidence of carbon  monoxide poisoning meant UKI had not 
repaired Ms Ss boiler properly and had left it in a condition that meant  it was leaking gases,
The investigator recommended  that UKI should  pay £300 compensation and, on receipt  of 
an invoice or proof of payment  to the independent  engineer for the rectification work on 13 
November 2017,  refund that amount to Ms S, together with 8% simple interest from the date 
of payment to the date of the refund.
UKI hasnt  responded to the investigators  assessment.  Ms S has responded and does not 
accept the assessment. She says:  
She had to provide high satisfaction ratings on the job sheet: the engineer was in her 
home where she is a single parent.  He had already  written the incorrect time on the 
sheet and was asking her questions  to see if she had a partner. Initially she had left 
that area blank  but he told her to put the high rating; she felt very vulnerable so she 
did.
£300 compensation is an extremely low amount, this has been  a very stressful and 
upsetting experience,  not to mention dangerous as she and her family  could have  
died. She would have expected something in the thousands.
She had to pay towards the costs, because of the time it would take to complete this 
work, this was not true. When she initially  spoke  to a manager  at the contractors 
firm, she was told that this would be refunded but it wasn't.
This matter was reported to Gas Safe and it has records  of this.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S says the UKIs contractor deliberately  made the job last longer than it needed to and 
made her fell vulnerable. Given the explanation from UKI about the way the costs are 
calculated and that she appears to have confirmed that he was there  for more  htan three  
hours, it is difficult for me to be certain that the true cost of the work would not have been  
more than the policy claim limit. I am not persuaded that there is enough  evidence  to require 
UKI to refund the £116 that she paid towards  this work. 
Ms S says she felt she had no choice but to rate the contractor as excellent for both 
communication and workmanship  on the job sheet he presented  to her. While I can 
appreciate that it is sometimes difficult to give a frank appraisal in such circumstances, it 
does mean  it is difficult for me to take this aspect of the complaint any further. There is no 
Ref: DRN03548743independent evidence of what was said and done during this engineers attendance in        
Ms Ss house. This isnt to say that I doubt  how she says she was made to feel, but there is 
not enough independent evidence for me to be able to make any award in her favour in 
relation to this issue. 
Turning to the more serious allegation, which is that the boiler flue was not connected to the 
boiler and allowed carbon  monoxide to escape  into Ms Ss home, I agree with the 
adjudicator that there is sufficient evidence to uphold this part of the complaint. 
Ms S told UKI that she was getting  an engineer to check  the work done  by its contractor. UKI 
had the opportunity to respond to Ms Ss complaint about  its contractor and inspect his work 
but it didnt do so. Ms Ss engineer has confirmed that he connected the flue, which had 
been leaking  carbon monoxide.  While  it is not a detailed invoice, he appears to be suitably 
qualified and so I have no reason on the face of it, not to accept  his evidence. 
Ms S reported the incident  to Gas Safe and it confirmed it would follow up the complaint of 
incompetence but that its findings  would not be reportable to her. It also said that if her 
engineer had completed a RIDDOR form, it would ultimately be the Health and Safety 
Executive that would report any findings. From the information available  to me, it does 
appear that Ms Ss engineer should have  reported this but even if he was meant to and 
failed to do so, I do not consider that this means  his evidence should be disregarded. 
Ms S has also provided her hospital discharge summary dated  13 November 2017, which 
says: 
carbon monoxide  level in VBG was 2.1 diagnosis: poisoning (NOT  plant, venom, gas, 
vapour. 
The report  says that Ms S was sent home with some  verbal  advice. The discharge summary 
is somewhat ambiguous  and unclear: its not clear  what 2.1 VBG means, without a unit of 
measurement, and it says NOT  gas/vapour  poisoning.  However,  taking the contents in 
its entirety, it seems to me possible that where it says NOT plant, venom, gas, vapour one 
or more  of these should have been crossed through. 
In any event, it does  state diagnosis  poisoning, having previously referred to her reported 
symptoms of carbon  monoxide poisoning. The blood  levels  of carbon monoxide however 
were not such that the hospital  considered Ms S needed further  observation or treatment. 
Having taken all this into account, I agree with the investigator that the sum of £300  
compensation, together with reimbursement of any costs she paid to have the boiler fixed, is 
appropriate. This is to reflect the time and trouble  in having to have the boiler flue fixed  
properly herself and in attending hospital, as well as the upset  and worry caused  to her. 
Theres no evidence that her son was unwell and although she has said her puppy was also 
diagnosed with carbon  monoxide poisoning,  there  is no evidence to support this. 
Ms S says she would have expected  much  higher compensation  but while this could have 
been much  more serious, the evidence is that Ms S had relatively low level symptoms for a 
few days and did not require any medical treatment. While I can understand the upset and 
worry about this happening at all and about  what might have happened,  I consider £300 to 
be reasonable and in line with other  awards made  in similar circumstances. 
Ref: DRN03548744my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against U K Insurance Limited and require it to: 
pay Ms S the sum of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  
by its handling  of her claim; and 
on receipt of an invoice or proof  of payment  to the independent engineer for the 
rectification work on 13 November 2017,  refund that amount to Ms S, together with 
8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of the refund.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0354874