K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Novaloans Ltd - trading as cash4unow   (Nova) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  Nova provided to Mr S between  July 2017 
and April 2018. Mr Ss borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment Default fees
1 20/07/2017 03/10/2017 6 £200.00 £54.99 0
2 17/10/2017 24/04/2018 6 £500.00 £133.18 2
3 25/04/2018 outstanding 6 £500.00 £166.78  
   
Nova offered to uphold  loan 3 when Mr S first brought  the complaint to it. Mr S didnt  accept 
this offer,  so the complaint was brought to this service. One of our adjudicators initially  
reviewed Mr Ss complaint and didnt think it should  be upheld. Mr S disagreed so the case 
was passed for final decision.
Whilst the case was waiting for an ombudsmans review, another adjudicator reviewed the 
case to ensure we had everything we needed.  The second adjudicator thought that loan 2 
should also be upheld.  They explained that from the information Nova had gathered about 
Mr S, it was unlikely Mr S could  sustainably  afford  to make  the repayments  for the loan. 
Nova disagreed  so, the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Nova needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Nova should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN07706902the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Nova  was required to establish  
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. Having done so Im partly upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Both adjudicators thought Nova had carried out proportionate checks for loan 1. Mr S didnt 
respond directly to this finding. As this loan no longer appears to be in dispute, I wont  be 
making any further findings on it. 
Nova upheld  loan 3 in its final response  to Mr S. And the second adjudicator also agreed  
loan 3 should be upheld. Looking at the what Nova has offered to do in respect to this loan, it 
is in-line with what this service would  suggest.  So there doesnt seem to be any more for me 
to comment on about this loan. As such I now only have  loan 2 to consider. 
Nova says that before  it lent loan 2, it asked Mr S about his monthly  income and normal 
living costs.  It also said it searched Mr Ss credit file and has provided the results of its 
search. Looking at this information, I think if Nova had properly considered Mr Ss financial 
situation and the lending,  it would  have seen that Mr S wasnt able to take on this borrowing.
I say this because  Mr S was borrowing £500  which was repayable  over six instalments  of 
£133.18. Looking  at the results of Mr Ss credit  file, I can see that at the time of loan 2,        
Mr Ss monthly credit commitment was £1,988. This exceeded his declared income  of 
£1,700. Meaning  Nova  ought  to have realised that Mr S wouldnt have been able to 
sustainably repay  loan 2. This was proven when he defaulted on his repayments twice  and 
incurred extra charges and fees. As such, Nova shouldnt have given this loan to Mr S. 
putting things right  what Novaloans  Ltd needs to do
If Nova has sold any outstanding debts Nova should buy these back if Nova is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Nova cant buy the debts back, then Nova should  liaise  
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Ref: DRN07706903A) Nova should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest,  
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance,  not including  anything 
Nova has already  refunded.
B) Nova should calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual  payments made by 
Mr S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Nova  should remove  all interest, fees and charges from the balance  on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr S as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr S having made 
overpayments then Nova should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Nova should  then refund the amounts calculated  in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus, 
then the surplus  should be paid to Mr S. However, if there is still an outstanding balance  
then Nova should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. Nova shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal Nova  has already written-off.
E) Nova should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to 
loan 2 (and loan 3 if it hasnt done  so already). 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Novaloans Ltd must give 
Mr S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ss complaint. Novaloans  Ltd should  
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0770690