K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Express Finance (Bromley) Limited, trading as Payday Express, gave
him loans  he couldnt  afford to repay.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  November  
2018, an extract of which is attached  and forms part of this final decision, so I wont  repeat 
that information here. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  I 
invited both parties to let me have any further  comments or evidence.  Payday Express said it 
agreed with my findings and had nothing further  to add. Mr K hasnt responded to my 
provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr K nor Payday Express have provided me with anything further I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  I dont  think that 
Payday Express carried out proportionate checks before lending to Mr K. But based on the 
available evidence, its not clear to me that if it had done so, it wouldve seen that Mr K 
couldnt afford to repay the loans.  So, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  Mr Ks complaint 
or make any award against Express Finance (Bromley) Limited,  trading as Payday Express.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00422582extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr K complains that Express Finance (Bromley) Limited, trading as Payday Express, gave him 
loans he couldnt  afford to repay.
background
Mr K took out the following loans with Payday  Express:
Mr K says that Payday  Express didnt carry out proper  affordability checks  and that it
shouldnt have given  him the loans. He wants Payday  Express  to accept that it was irresponsible in 
lending to him, pay him compensation and remove the loans from his credit file.
In response to Mr Ks complaint, Payday Express said that it asked Mr K for sufficient  information 
before loan one but not before loans two, three and four. It asked Mr K for information  so that it could 
see whether  he could afford  those  loans.  Mr K referred the matter to this service.
Our adjudicator thought that Payday Express hadnt done  enough before  any of its loans to Mr K. 
She said if it carried out proportionate  checks, it wouldve  seen  that Mr K couldnt  afford loans one 
and two. The adjudicator  said that she didnt  have  enough  information to conclude  that Mr K couldnt  
afford loans three  and four. She said that Payday Express shouldnt have given Mr K loans one and 
two and she set out what it should do to put things  right.
Payday Express  didnt  agree with the adjudicator.  It said its checks were  sufficient before loan one 
and that it wasnt possible  to say for certain that loan two wasnt affordable based on Mr Ks 
recollection of his expenditure at that time.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend to Mr K, Payday Express had to check each time that he could afford  to 
make the repayments. The checks it did had to be proportionate. Whats proportionate depends on 
things like the size of the loan repayments and the information Payday Express had about  Mr K. 
Theres no set list of the checks a lender should carry out.
Before agreeing to loan one, Payday Express asked Mr K about  his income,  which it 
recorded as £1,580. It also carried out a credit check.
Mr Ks first loan was for £300 and he had to repay £387. That was quite a big part of
Mr Ks declared monthly income.  So, I think Payday  Express  should  have done more than it did 
before deciding  whether to lend to him. I think that proportionate checks  would  have included  asking 
Mr K about his normal monthly living costs  and regular  financial commitments.  I cant see that 
Payday Express  did that, so I dont  think  it carried  out proportionate checks  before loan one.
Loan two was for substantially more than loan one. I think proportionate checks  before loan two 
wouldve included asking Mr K not only about his income and expenditure, but also about  his other 
short-term financial commitments. Payday Express didnt do that.
Ref: DRN00422583By loan three,  a pattern of borrowing was emerging.  Mr K was looking to borrow again  immediately 
after hed repaid loan two. And the amount hed have to repay for loan three was a considerable 
portion of his stated  monthly income.  I think before  loan three  onwards, proportionate checks  are 
likely to have established  a much fuller picture of
Mr Ks financial position. I think proportionate checks here wouldve meant that Payday Express 
took steps to verify the information Mr K provided  about his financial situation.
So, I dont think  that Payday  Express carried  out proportionate checks before lending to Mr K. 
Thats not the end of the matter, as I need  to establish whether that made  any difference  in this 
case.
Weve asked  Mr K to provide  us with copies of his bank statements for the relevant period, so that 
we can see what his expenditure was. Unfortunately,  Mr K cant provide them. Instead,  Mr K has 
provided us with the following:
A spreadsheet  from August 2013, which he says shows his income and expenditure at 
that time based on his bills from the previous year.  Mr K says he thinks he prepared the 
spreadsheet when he was dealing  with a debt management company.
A copy of his credit  report dated March 2018.
An extract  of his tenancy agreement dated December 2012.
A copy of a pay slip from November  2012.
Extracts of text messages, one to a relative  in November 2012 and one from a debt 
management company  dated May 2013.
I dont think I can rely on Mr Ks unverified  spreadsheet from August 2013 in order to
establish what  Payday  Express  would have found out if it had carried  out proportionate checks. 
Mr K says that he prepared that spreadsheet almost a year after loan one and for another 
purpose.
Mr Ks payslip and tenancy  agreement dont assist me in relation to loans  one, two and three, as 
theyre dated after those  loans.  Those documents tell me that in November 2012, Mr Ks income after 
tax, national insurance and pension  contribution  was £1,752.40 and that he paid child support of 
£298. From December  2012,  he paid rent of £575. So, shortly before loan four, Mr K had £879.40 per 
month to cover other living costs and financial  commitments but I havent seen reliable evidence  
about what that other expenditure was.
Ive looked at Mr Ks credit  report. The information prospective lenders can get from a credit check 
is much more limited than the information Mr K can see from his credit report. Whilst  there was 
other borrowing  and a default, its not clear to me that Payday Express wouldve  seen from 
proportionate checks that Mr K couldnt afford to repay further borrowing.
Im sorry to disappoint  Mr K but, based on what  Ive seen, I dont think  I can safely conclude that if 
Payday Express  had carried  out proportionate checks it wouldve seen that he couldnt  afford  to 
repay further borrowing.  It follows that I dont intend to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
As Ive said, Ill look at any more comments  and evidence  that I get by the date shown
above. In particular, if Mr K can provide his bank statements for June 2012 to February  2013 that 
may well alter the outcome.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my provisional  decision is that I dont intend to uphold
Mr Ks complaint.
Ref: DRN0042258