K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr B says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has complained that he was sold this PPI policy  during a meeting. But based  on what 
we know more widely about the sales channels  that Capital One used around the time this 
policy was sold, alongside a copy of Mr Bs credit  card application form, I think that its more 
likely that this policy was sold via a postal application.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he may not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mr Bs credit card application form. On this 
form there was a section  headed Additional information. Underneath this there were 
options for some additional products and services  including  an option for PPI. 
Beside a statement that said Please enrol  me in Capital Ones Payment  Protection  
Scheme, there were Yes  and No options.  A tick has been  placed next to the Yes 
option and Mr B has signed  the overall form. So I think this indicates what he wanted.
Based  on everything Ive seen, I dont think that Capital One recommended  the PPI 
to Mr B.  I say this because  I think that this was a postal  sale without anyone from 
capital One present  and theres  nothing  on the application form that I think  could 
reasonably be interpreted as Capital One making a recommendation to take PPI. 
This means that it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make 
sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI 
was affordable.  So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him 
off taking out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to a third party because: 
Ref: DRN02056952Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about  that. Because Capital  One didnt tell 
Mr B, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this - to a 
third party, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0205695