K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of his car insurance policy.
Reference to Ageas  includes  their agents.
background
On 22 April 2017, Mr H was involved in a minor accident where his car hit the back of 
another car. Mr H didnt  report  the incident  to Ageas. The other  driver said her car was 
damaged and that she and her passenger suffered whiplash injury. They made  a claim 
against Mr Hs policy on 31 May 2017.
On 31 May 2017, Ageas  sent Mr H a letter asking him for his version of events. Mr H replied 
by email on 6 June. He said the other  car had stopped suddenly and that his car had 
nudged the other  car in the back. On the same date, Ageas responded to Mr Hs email  by 
sending a letter in which they said:
"From the description you have given we will be treating the accident as a fault 
accident. Whilst we appreciate  the other vehicle may have stopped  suddenly,  the 
onus was on you to leave adequate breaking distance in order to avoid a collision
Mr H said he didnt receive  Ageas letter of 6 June 2017 and that he never heard back from 
them about  the incident. He said it wasnt until March 2018, when he came to renew his 
policy, that he found out Ageas had admitted  liability on his behalf and that they had settled 
the other partys claim. On renewal  his premium also increased.
Mr H complained as he didnt think it was reasonable for Ageas to have settled the claim 
because he didnt think he was at fault.  Ageas didnt uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Mr H didnt 
think that was fair so he brought his complaint to our service.  One of our investigators looked  
into it. She felt that Ageas had dealt with Mr H fairly.  As Mr H didnt agree with our 
investigator, the complaint  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr H, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mr Hs points carefully.  But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if Ageas  have dealt with Mr H in a fair and 
reasonable way.
settling the claim
Under the policy, Ageas have the discretion  to settle claims as they feel appropriate without 
the need to get Mr Hs agreement. But I expect them to exercise  that discretion in a fair and 
reasonable way.
Mr H said that Ageas  didnt tell him that they would be accepting  liability  on his behalf. But 
Ageas said they sent him a letter dated  6 June  2017, in which they told him they were 
holding him at fault for the accident. Mr H said he didnt receive that letter.  Ive seen that the 
Ref: DRN08877792letter was properly sent to Mr Hs correct address. And Mr H has confirmed he received 
Ageas letter  dated 31 May 2017, which was sent to the same address. While I accept the 
letter was properly sent, its also quite possible that Mr H never received it. But even if Mr H 
had received that letter, I dont think there  would  have been any change in the outcome, as I 
think Ageas  would have still accepted liability.
Mr H accepted there was a minor  accident and that he hit the other car from behind  at low 
speed. So I can understand  why he was concerned that the other  driver claimed that her car 
was damaged and that she and her passenger suffered injury. But, nevertheless,  there was 
an accident. And in his email to Ageas, Mr H said that after exchanging  details  with the other  
driver I said you should see how much  it costs to repair. I dont think  Mr H would have  said 
that had there not been any damage to the other  car. Its also well an established rule that is 
consistently applied  by the courts that the driver hitting another vehicle from behind  is 
responsible. The driver  behind is expected  to keep a safe distance and speed to enable  
them to be able to stop suddenly in the event something unexpected happens. I therefore 
think Ageas decision  to accept liability was reasonable. 
I think Mr Hs main concern is that the other driver, and her passenger, exaggerated the 
extent of the accident and the resulting damage and injury. Mr H said he believed the claim 
was fraudulent. But I have seen the medical  evidence of the other driver and passenger. It is 
documented that they both told the medical  practitioner that their car was struck from behind,  
which is consistent with Mr Hs account. And the medical reports concluded that the driver 
and passenger both had injuries consistent with their accounts of the accident.  I am aware  
that its not unusual for minor accidents  like this to cause injuries. So I think it was 
reasonable for Ageas to accept that evidence. And the level of compensation Ageas paid to 
them is consistent with whiplash  injury.
Im also aware that the other drivers  car was repaired by her insurers approved repairer, as 
opposed to an independent one the driver might have found.  And the cost of repair  was 
under £1,400. That level of cost for an approved  repairer is consistent with minor damage. 
From the information I have seen, Mr H didnt categorically discount  any damage being  
caused to the other car as a result of the accident.  In fact his comment,  quoted earlier, 
suggests there was damage. And given that the car was assessed  and confirmed  as being 
damaged by the insurers approved engineer, I think it was reasonable for Ageas  to pay the 
claim for those costs.
Ageas have experience in dealing with cases  like this and I think  they settled after 
reasonably investigating the claim.  They took into consideration all the information Mr H 
gave them; the other  drivers and passengers accounts; the repair  costs; and the medical 
evidence. So I think Ageas decision was reasonable.
If Ageas didnt settle the claim as they did, the only way of challenging the other  driver  and 
passenger would have been  to take the matter to court. For the reasons  explained  above,  
Ageas would have  felt that if this matter  went to court they had a poor chance of succeeding. 
I dont expect insurers to take disputes  to court that are unlikely to succeed. So I think their 
decision not to take the matter to court, and potentially incur  significant costs in doings so, 
was reasonable.  
premium increase
Mr H wasnt happy that his premium increased by around £80 when  he came to renew  his 
policy in March 2018.
Ref: DRN08877793It might help if I explain that we're not the industry  regulator. That means it's not my role to 
tell an insurer how much they can charge for their policies. And our service generally  takes  
the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customers  with similar 
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to 
in order to cover a risk.
Mr Hs premium did go up, so I can understand why he was concerned.  But just because  
Mr Hs premium increased, I don't  think that means that Ageas have treated him unfairly.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  And its not down to me to 
tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go 
about those assessments.  Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk 
and the extent of those.  Thats essentially a matter of commercial  judgement,  balancing risk 
against the need to compete with other  policies  on offer, and not something  we would 
usually think its fair to interfere with. 
Having a recent fault claim, as was the case with Mr H, does cause premiums to increase. 
Most insurers say that statistically  policyholders involved in fault accidents are at a higher  
risk of being  involved in accidents in the future. As insurance is essentially an assessment of 
risk, I dont think  theres anything wrong with insurers considering whether or not certain  
individuals fall into higher risk groupings.  I therefore dont believe Ageas have acted 
unreasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.  
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0887779