K821x#15complaint
Mr C says that Novaloans  Ltd, trading as Cash4unow, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Cash4unow approved 7 instalment loans for Mr C between August 2016 and May 2018.  Mr 
C said that he was in financial difficulty and borrowing from other lenders.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that Cash4unow shouldnt  have 
continued to lend to Mr C from loan 4 onwards as he was reliant  on this type of credit  and 
essentially using the loans to supplement his income. The adjudicator thought  that by this 
point Cash4unow  should have realised  that further borrowing wasnt sustainable. Our 
adjudicator recommended  that Cash4unow put things right for Mr C by refunding  all interest  
and charges incurred on loans 3 to 7. 
Cash4unow didnt  agree with the adjudicators opinion and in particular said that Mr C repaid 
his loans in full and on time and his delinquent accounts reduced  during his period of 
borrowing which demonstrated  his money  management was improving. As the business  
didnt agree the complaint  has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cash4unow should fairly and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN03361852I think its important for me to start by saying that Cash4unow was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.  
Cash4unow has told us about the checks it did before lending  to Mr C. It asked Mr C for 
details of his income  and normal expenditure.  And Cash4unow carried out checks  on Mr Cs 
credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Cash4unow to give Mr C loans 1 to 3 on 
the basis of the information he gave about  his income and outgoings. It was early  in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Cash4unow to agree  to lend. 
As Mr C hasnt  raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans 
one to three, I dont  think that I need  to say more about them.
At the point of loan 4 I agree with the adjudicator that Mr Cs borrowing pattern was a cause 
for concern. Mr C had taken out loan 4 on the same  day as loan 3 was repaid. Mr C had 
been consistently borrowing for ten months with no break in the borrowing or significant 
reduction of the amount owed. This should  have prompted Cash4unow to consider whether 
further lending  was sustainable  for Mr C. His pattern of borrowing suggested  that he was 
reliant on short term credit and not managing  his money responsibly.  I think that Cash4unow 
should have done further checks  at this point about  why Mr C needed  to borrow so often.  If it 
had done it wouldve seen that Mr C had a number of other short  term lending  accounts and 
further borrowing  was unsustainable. I agree with the adjudicator  that Cash4unow shouldnt 
have given Mr C loan 4 or any subsequent loans.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Cs lending with Cash4unow to see if there was a 
point at which Cash4unow should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Cash4unow shouldve realised that it wasnt 
reasonable to lend more money  to Mr C.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I agree with the conclusions of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan six. By this stage Mr C had been 
borrowing continually with no break in the lending. He was taking out a new loan on the 
same day or soon after repaying  the previous loan.
I think that Mr C lost out because Cash4unow continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards. This is because:
Ref: DRN03361853the number of loans that Mr C had taken from Cash4unow was likely to have had negative  
implications on his ability to access mainstream credit.  This kept Mr C in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Cs complaint about  loans  4 to 7.
putting things right  what Cash4unow  needs to do
refund all interest  and charges that Mr C paid on loans 4 to 7;
add simple  interest  at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Cs credit  file;
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded  
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 and 7 should be removed from Mr 
Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cash4unow  to take off tax from this interest.  Cash4unow 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and direct Novaloans  Ltd (trading  
as Cash4unow) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0336185