K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that FirstRand  Bank  Limited wouldnt let him reject a car he had bought with 
a hire purchase agreement.
background
In January Mr G bought  a second  hand  car with hire purchase  supplied by FirstRand.  It was 
some nine years old and had done 99,952  miles.  It came with a three month  warranty.  Mr G 
encountered a number of problems which were  addressed under the warranty.  Mr G also 
acquired a separate parts warranty. After three months he had an issue  with the ERG  valve  
which was repaired by another dealer and the parts were covered by the warranty.  The 
garage gave Mr G compensation  of £100.
Shortly after this he had a problem with the brakes. He complained to FirstRand  and it 
commissioned an independent  report. This concluded there was an issue  but the inspector 
didnt think it had been present at the point of sale. The inspector noted the car had done 
some 6,000  miles since purchase  and he considered if the fault had been present when Mr 
G bought the car it would have manifested itself sooner.
FirstRand rejected Mr Gs request  to reject the car, but paid him a goodwill payment of £150. 
He brought his complaint  to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who 
didnt recommend it be upheld. She noted that the early issues had been addressed under 
the cars  warranty, and part of the cost of repairing  the EGR  valve was covered under a 
separate warranty. She thought these  issues were due to wear  and tear and it was 
reasonable for the garage to have repaired them. She didnt believe they merited  a rejection.
She referred  to the expert report which concluded the fault with the brakes  hadnt  been 
present at the point of sale and so she couldnt say the car hadnt  been of satisfactory quality 
at the point of sale. Mr G didnt agree and said that up to June the car had been off the road 
on three occasions for a total of one month.  He said it had been  stressful  and had caused 
him to take time off work due to that stress. He said that there  had been  along list of issues 
of which  the brake failure was the latest. He felt FirstRand had only considered  the brake 
fault.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FirstRand is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
Ref: DRN09495752The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It is unfortunate that Mr G has encountered  a number of problems with his car. However,  it 
was around nine years old and had done  almost  100,000 miles so it is to be expected  that 
there will be parts of the car that fail due to wear and tear. However, all the initial  issues 
were addressed by the selling garage at no cost to Mr G and I consider that to be fair.
The ERG valve was repaired under  a separate warranty at a reduced cost to Mr G. The 
garage says he didnt tell it about  the fault and it would have dealt with it and provided a 
courtesy car. I also note that it says it paid him £100  as a gesture  of goodwill.
Mr G complained to FirstRand about  the brakes and it took the reasonable step of getting an 
expert report. As this showed  there  were no grounds to believe the fault had been present 
when the car was sold it was reasonable for it not to offer a rejection. Despite that I note that 
it paid Mr G £150 as a goodwill gesture.
I understand that more recently the starter motor  failed and this was repaired At Mr Gs own 
expense. I appreciate his view that taking the totality of the various faults  they are such  that 
he should be allowed  to reject the car. I dont agree.
I fear that for a car of this age and mileage it isnt unusual for various components to begin to 
go wrong. Many of the issues he encountered have been dealt with under  warranty  and he 
has received £250 in compensation. I consider  the response by the garage  and by FirstRand 
to be fair and I dont  consider I can recommend rejection.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject  my decision before 
1 March 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0949575