K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Virgin Money  plc unfairly  refused him a mortgage without giving him a 
proper explanation. Mr C would like Virgin  to reconsider or give him an explanation and 
provide compensation.
background
Mr C bought a property April 2018 for £236,000  before  he had got a mortgage on it with help 
from his parents. Mr C then wanted to raise a mortgage of £57,500 and applied to Virgin 
Money. Mr C says that Virgin Money  asked for excessive  information and delayed the 
process. Eventually Virgin Money wouldnt proceed  with the application  but offered 
compensation of £100 for delays in the process.  Virgin Money wont provide an explanation 
for its decision and says that it retains the right not to give any reason for declining  a 
decision.
Our adjudicator felt that Virgin Money was entitled to come to a commercial  decision as to 
whether to lend Mr C money  and that it wasnt required to provide a reason for declining the 
application. Mr C disagreed saying in summary  that the mortgage broker felt that Mr C hadnt  
been treated in a fair and professional manner.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the documentation  relevant to this mortgage application. Virgin Money  turned 
down Mr Cs application. My concern is whether  Virgin Money gave  the application fair 
consideration and did it in a timely  manner.  It seems that there were two applications.  The 
first application didnt proceed  as the valuer  assessed the property  as nil because it lacked 
an upstairs bathroom. I appreciate that if there was a nil valuation  that Virgin  Money couldnt 
proceed on that security  and the decision not to proceed with that application doesnt seem 
unfair.
I note that in particular Mr C refers to Virgin  Money  collecting  the information  in dribs and 
drabs which seemed  to him unprofessional I have  then looked through the history of the 
second application on the Virgin Money  system. Looking at this history I can see that Virgin  
Money raised a series  of questions and that Mr C responded and that on occasion  Virgin  
Money raised a further set of questions.  I appreciate that this may have been frustrating for 
Mr C but the questions do appear relevant  and I dont believe that Virgin  Money could 
anticipate Mr Cs responses  in advance.  I dont  see this as unprofessional  but rather Virgin  
Money doing a thorough examination of the application. I note that Mr C in particular was 
unhappy that, having produced bank statements, that he was later asked to provide a set 
from the bank that were  stamped or signed and wasnt  told this previously.  It seems that Mr 
C already provided  online  statements that the bank was working with. But I see nothing  
wrong with Virgin  Money requesting a stamped copy from the bank  as lenders often do for 
confirmation.  
My examination of the Virgin Money system  notes does not disclose any unreasonable delay 
on its part. When Information comes  in from Mr C it seems to be actioned  promptly. I note 
Ref: DRN09372992that Virgin Money has offered compensation of £100 for short delays which  I believe is 
reasonable but I dont consider any further compensation is due. If Mr C now wishes  to 
accept that offer he can make contact with Virgin Money to do so.
Virgin Money has withheld its reason for declining the application but I note that Mr C 
accepted that the bank could do that when he signed a declaration to that effect when  
making the application. So, as Virgin Money  retained that right and Mr C agreed that it could 
do so, I cant fairly require it now to provide Mr C with the explanation that he wants.  For the 
above reasons  I dont  uphold this complaint.    
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0937299