K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Miss H complain  Nationwide Building Society didnt  pay them the £100  they 
expected to receive following switching  their current account to the society  using the 
'recommend a friend'  scheme.  Further that new current  account documentation was sent to 
a previous address and that they didn't receive  the card reader within  the timescales they 
expected. They are also unhappy that their monthly  mortgage payment was duplicated. 
Finally they are unhappy with the societys customer service.
background
Mr R and Miss H switched  their current account  from a bank to the society.  They expected to 
receive a credit to their account  of £100 under the societys 'recommend  a friend' scheme. 
They didnt receive the cash.  When they complained to the society it said they hadnt  met the 
terms of the offer as they hadnt switched a current account with two existing direct debits. 
Mr R and Miss H are also unhappy that their current account documentation went to a 
previous address when the new current account was opened. And that they didn't receive 
their card reader within the timescales  the society had indicated to them.
They also think Nationwide made an error  which caused them to make two mortgage 
payments in one month. They say this meant they went overdrawn with their other current 
account.
Finally they are unhappy with the societys customer service.  They  feel one of the staff 
members they spoke to was rude,  talked over them whilst speaking  and they feel didn't 
answer their questions.  And they were unhappy that the societys  complaints team closed at 
5pm.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt agree Mr R and 
Miss H met the requirements to receive £100  under the recommend a friend scheme 
because he didnt think two direct debits were switched. 
He thought Nationwide had followed its processes when it took a mortgage  payment on the 
first working day after the first of the month  and that it would  have been  wise for Mr R and 
Miss H to check  with the society  before making a manual payment. He therefore didnt think 
he could hold Nationwide responsible for two monthly mortgage payments being made in the 
same month. 
He also thought the card reader arrived within a reasonable time.
The adjudicator noted that the address shown on Mr R and Miss Hs application was an old 
address. This address  had been  picked up by Nationwides systems. As a result  Mr R and 
Miss Hs cards and pin were sent to their old address. The adjudicator thought it may have 
been an idea to contact Nationwide Building  Society  before completing  the application to 
switch current accounts as the wrong address was shown on the application.
The adjudicator did agree the adviser misinformed them  about  the timescale for receiving a 
final response letter. But he thought being misinformed about when to receive the final 
response letter had no effect on the actual complaint.
Ref: DRN05259682He agreed the adviser talked over Mr R but he didn't agree he was particularly rude. He also 
agreed the adviser gave Mr R wrong information about what  days  are working days. But 
overall he thought  he answered Mr Rs questions correctly except for the working days.  He 
thought other calls he listened  to showed advisers  being sympathetic and offering to help.
Mr R and Miss H disagree. They cannot  understand how the adjudicator  didnt think  it was 
rude for an advisor to repeatedly talk over a customer. They  also say they have checked 
their Nationwide Online  Banking profile  and it shows their correct  address, however they 
have recently applied for an overdraft and the confirmation and details of the overdraft were  
sent to their old address. 
The adjudicator responded to Mr R and Miss H to explain he didnt think the adviser was 
rude because of the tone of his voice and his manner.  He didnt think the interruptions were  
intentional. He asked Mr R and Miss H to send him the overdraft  documentation  which  was 
sent to an old address  so he could investigate further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The adjudicator set out in detail why he didnt think Mr R and Miss H were eligible  for the 
£100 payment  under  the refer a friend scheme..  Im not entirely clear what  happened  based 
on the evidence  Ive seen. Nationwide has said; We've received confirmation from our 
Current Account Switch Team that the other  2 Direct Debits  to [a bank] and [another  
organisation] were  set up by the companies  directly which  means they weren't carried  over 
as part of the Full Current Account Switch. It doesnt  really make sense to me that two 
companies would reset up direct debits on Mr R and Miss Hs account  and Mr R wouldnt 
know about this. Mr R and Miss H have been  given the opportunity to provide more  evidence 
to show their direct debits existed when  they had their previous account  by showing recent 
debits from that account for those direct debits. They have chosen not to provide this 
evidence when asking  for an ombudsmans decision. On balance I think it is most likely the 
direct debits werent existing direct  debits moved as part of the switch. And that Mr R and 
Miss H werent eligible for the £100 incentive.
The adjudicator also said why he didnt think Nationwide was responsible for two mortgage  
payments being  made in the same month and why he thought the card reader arrived in a 
reasonable timeframe. When Mr R and Miss H asked for an ombudsmans decision they 
didnt mention these  parts  of their complaint. So I wont deal with them  in any detail here 
other than to say I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  and reasoning. 
With regard to mail being sent to the wrong address I dont think I can fairly hold Nationwide 
responsible for this. The mail was sent to the address on the application to switch.  I 
appreciate Mr R tried to change this address  by phone  but like the adjudicator I dont think  I 
can hold Nationwide  responsible for the fact this wasnt possible. I think they should have 
delayed switching until the correct address was pre-populated on their switch application.
Ref: DRN05259683Im sorry  to hear further papers have been sent to the wrong  address. This wasnt  part of 
their original complaint  as this happened  afterwards.  Again Mr R and Miss H havent 
provided the evidence requested by the adjudicator to allow him to look at this further. In the 
circumstances I think it is only fair that Nationwide has a chance to respond to this 
separately. Mr R and Miss H are therefore  free to complain to Nationwide about this and if 
they are not happy with its response  to come to this service again.
I have listened  to calls between Mr R and Nationwide. Ideally the staff member wouldnt 
have talked over Mr R. But I also note that Mr R interrupted more  than one staff member in 
different calls. I dont  think Mr R or the Nationwide staff member were  rude. So I wont  be 
upholding this part of the complaint. Nor do I think it is unreasonable for the complaints 
department to close at 5pm. Finally I think in all the calls Ive heard the Nationwide staff tried 
to help Mr R and Miss H. They may have  made  minor mistakes as set out in the 
adjudicators view but I dont think these were  serious enough to justify an award of 
compensation.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0525968