K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  that Gain Credit LLC (trading  as Lending Stream) lent her money that she 
couldnt afford to repay.
Miss J wants  Lending Stream to refund the interest  that she paid together with interest on 
the refund.
background
Miss J took out eight  instalment loans with Lending  Stream between July 2014 and October  
2017. Miss J says that she was borrowing from multiple lenders and had become reliant  on 
increasingly larger loans.  Miss J says that her financial situation had a negative  impact on 
her mental health.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Js complaint be upheld.  He thought that 
Lending Streams  checks  went far enough before agreeing loans one to three and six to 
eight. And that based on the information Lending Stream  had about  Miss J, it was 
reasonable to agree  all of these loans.
The adjudicator thought  that Lending  Stream shouldve carried  out better  checks  before 
agreeing loans four and five. The adjudicator thought that even with better checks, loans  four 
and five wouldve  still appeared  affordable.
Miss J disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation. Miss J said that Lending Stream  
was just one of a number  of lenders that she used to stay afloat.  Miss J said that she was 
borrowing from one to pay another. 
my provisional findings
After considering all of the available arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint I was minded not to uphold Miss Js complaint.  As I didnt 
agree with everything that the adjudicator  recommended,  I considered it was fair to give   
Miss J and Lending Stream the opportunity to respond.
Lending Stream was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make  checks to see whether 
Miss J could  afford to pay each loan back before it lent to her. There wasnt  a set list of 
checks it had to carry out. But the checks had to be proportionate to things  such  as the 
amount borrowed,  the length  of the agreement and any borrowing history.  
loans one to three
Lending Stream asked  Miss J for details of her income and expenditure before agreeing 
loans one to three. Miss J said that her net monthly  income was around £2,475 for loan one 
and £2,500 for loans two and three. Lending  Stream recorded monthly expenses each time 
of between £1,354 and £1,400.
I thought that Lending  Stream  carried out proportionate checks  for these three  loans.
Ref: DRN00239662Based on the information that Miss J gave about  her financial situation and the lengthy break 
between repaying  loan one and asking  for loan two, it looked as though she could afford the 
repayments on loans  one to three. It followed that I didnt uphold  Miss Js complaint  about 
these three  loans.
loan four 
When Miss J borrowed  from Lending Stream in November 2015 it was her third loan in the 
same chain. This meant  that Lending  Stream shouldve  been aware of Miss Js lending 
history. I thought  that Lending  Stream shouldve been asking Miss J for details of her 
income, living costs and regular credit  commitments.
The adjudicator said he couldnt see what Lending  Stream included as part of Miss Js 
expenditure figure so he substituted the figures  that Miss J declared to Lending Stream  with 
the living costs  and regular financial commitments that the adjudicator could see on Miss Js 
bank statements. 
It didnt make a difference to the outcome of this complaint but I disagreed  with the 
adjudicators approach.  Lending Stream told us that it asked Miss J to give her expenses 
from the following  categories  mortgage/rent, food, transport, credit expenses  and other  
payments. Lending  Stream  also increased Miss Js declared expenses  to make sure that 
she could afford the repayment.
I thought the fairer  thing to do was to use the figures that Lending Stream  recorded  at the 
time of loan four  particularly  the one that related to Miss Js regular credit commitments.  
Lending Stream said that Miss J declared  credit expenses of £325. So even  if I added  this 
figure to the living costs  that the adjudicator  could  see on Miss Js bank  statement of £995, it 
wouldve still looked as though she had enough  disposable income to afford the loan.
loan five
When Miss J applied  for loan five in December 2015, the previous  loan was still running. 
This meant she had a combined repayment in January 2016 of more  than £400  against a 
declared monthly income of £2,500. I thought this meant that Lending Stream shouldve  
been doing a bit more  than it did to make  sure that Miss J could  afford to repay  loan five in a 
sustainable way.
I thought a proportionate check  before agreeing  loan five shouldve involved Lending Stream 
asking Miss J about her other short term lending commitments.  As far as I was aware,  
Lending Stream didnt  do this.
Just because I didnt  think Lending Stream carried out adequate affordability checks, it didnt  
necessarily mean that I must go on to uphold Miss Js complaint about loan five. I would 
have needed to be persuaded that with better  checks, Lending Stream wouldve discovered  
that the loan wasnt affordable for Miss J.
As this service is dealing  with some of Miss Js other  complaints, I knew  that she had taken  
out one other short  term loan at the end of November 2015. Miss J was due to pay the other 
payday lender  six monthly instalments of about £240. If I added this to the expenditure figure 
of £1,400 that Lending Stream recorded,  it wouldve reduced Miss Js disposable income to 
£860. 
Ref: DRN00239663Even if Lending Stream had carried out the kinds of checks that I considered to have been 
proportionate, it wouldve  appeared that Miss J had enough disposable income to be able to 
afford loan five, including the combined  repayments  due when both loans were  running at 
the same  time.
loans six and seven
There was a break of about six months  between  repaying loan five and taking out loan six. In 
the absence of any other evidence to the contrary, I couldnt say that Lending Stream 
shouldve been  alerted  to a possible dependency on short term lending.
Lending Stream gave  us evidence that it asked Miss J for details of her income and 
expenditure before agreeing loans six and seven. Lending Stream  recorded a monthly 
income of £2,500 with outgoings between £1,300 and £1,400.
I thought that these  checks  were adequate. From the information Lending Stream  held about  
Miss J, it looked as though she could afford to repay the loans from her disposable income.
loan eight
Miss J asked  for loan eight more than a year after she had repaid loan seven.  I thought it 
was reasonable  of Lending Stream to effectively treat Miss J as a new customer. 
Lending Stream said that it asked Miss J for details of her income and expenditure. I 
considered this was enough and the loan appeared affordable.
I appreciated that Miss Js financial situation was worse  than she told Lending Stream  at the 
time. But overall, I didnt  consider that with the kinds  of checks  that I thought were 
proportionate Lending Stream wouldve been aware  of Miss Js financial difficulties. So I 
didnt intend upholding Miss Js complaint.
further submissions
Miss J said that she was disappointed but accepted my provisional  decision. I cant  see that 
Lending Stream responded.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As Miss J agrees with my provisional decision and Lending Stream  hasnt asked me to 
consider anything further, I consider  its fair to make  my final decision  along the same lines 
as in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN00239664Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0023966