K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains on behalf  of his company, PWUK Ltd. He says that Revolut Ltd refused to 
close his account  despite his request to do so. 
He would like his account closed and his fees refunded. 
background
Mr W opened a business account with Revolut  in October 2018  but he found that it wasnt 
what he expected.  He thought that it would be a UK bank account. It turned  out that he could 
only use it for international transfers. 
He logged into his online account to try to close it in March 2019. There  was an online 
conversation between him and Revolut. Revolut asked him for additional information but 
Mr W thought  that he shouldnt have to provide it because he had logged in securely to the 
account. 
Revolut refused to close the account without  the information requested.  Mr W raised  a 
complaint. He didnt  think that everyone in Revolut should be able to see his information as 
he considered  this was a breach of data protection rules. 
Revolut didnt agree  that they had done  anything wrong. They  said that their general terms 
of service said that they couldnt be held liable for Mr W not being  able to use the account as 
he had hoped to. They did try to resolve things by offering  to refund Mr W the £25 Start Up 
Plan fee. 
They asked for information again from Mr W to close the account. 
With regards to GDPR, they said that their policies were compliant with external  regulations.  
Mr W didnt agree with this decision so he came  to us. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought that Revoluts  website and their 
terms and conditions made it clear what the account could be used for. She also thought  that 
Revolut could ask for the information  that they wanted before closing the account. She 
considered the £25 that they had offered to be fair and reasonable. 
Mr W wasnt happy with this outcome so the complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Mr W wont be happy with my decision. I dont think  that Revolut has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in this matter.  I will explain why. 
Im sorry  that Mr W did get a different service to the one he expected from Revolut. I can see 
how cumbersome this has been. But, I cant hold Revolut  responsible  for this as I think that 
they did make clear what service Mr W would get. I think that their website and terms and 
conditions are clear. 
Ref: DRN03357042Mr W then tried to close his account. Im sorry but I dont think that Revolut acted  unfairly or 
unreasonably in asking for further  information  before closing the account.  I note what  Mr W 
says about data protection but the information  requested was going to stay within  Revolut. It 
wasnt being asked  so it could be passed  on anywhere else.  So, I dont think that this was a 
breach of data protection but, ultimately, the ICO will make a decision on this. 
I think that in order  to close the account, it was right of Revolut to ask the further questions. 
The answers shouldve  been known to Mr W. 
I note that Mr W says that he had already given answers to some  of the questions in the 
same email  thread that they were asked in. But, I think that Revolut  were  simply asking him 
to confirm these answers. 
Revolut has now said that it will close the account  as we have dealt with the case. 
I think that Revolut  has acted fairly and reasonably in this case.
Im sorry  that this isnt the outcome that Mr W hoped for but I hoped  that I have explained 
why I think that this is the right decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont require  Revolut Ltd to do anything  else.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0335704