K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S say TSB Bank plcs IT issues had an impact on them. 
background
At the end of April 2018, TSB experienced IT problems. Mr and Mrs S say this meant they 
had intermittent access to their online banking and their statements were be inaccurate at 
times. Theyve also said that when they called  TSB to amend the direct debit payment for 
their TSB credit card,  TSB cancelled the direct debit instead. This meant they missed their 
monthly payment  in July 2018 which affected  their credit file and they lost their promotional 
balance transfer  rate. 
To put this right, TSB reinstated the promotional balance transfer rate on the credit card and 
assured Mr and Mrs S that their credit file wouldnt be affected. Mr and Mrs S provided 
evidence that their credit file had been  affected  and TSB have since  amended this, following 
our involvement. 
Mr and Mrs S have  also said they attempted to make an international transfer  online for a 
family emergency. When they were unable to do this, another family member  made  the 
transfer for them. When they repaid  the family member, the exchange rate was different  
meaning they had to pay more. 
TSB initially offered  Mr and Mrs S £250  for the distress and inconvenience  the IT issues had 
on them,  plus £50 for any financial losses they incurred. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with this 
and thought they should receive £1,500  total.  
Two separate adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and felt Mr and Mrs S should  receive  
£300 compensation for the impact the issues had on them, plus £50 for their financial losses. 
Mr and Mrs S still felt they should  receive  a total of £1,500.  
As an informal agreement  couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the previous  recommendation made  of £300 compensation 
plus £50 for financial  losses. Ill explain why. 
I can see Mr and Mrs S have encountered problems due to the IT issues and that this has 
been frustrating  for them. Due to TSBs  error, their direct debit was cancelled meaning  they 
missed their minimum  payment  for their TSB credit  card. From what  Mr and Mrs S have 
said, this is an unusual  occurrence for them so I can understand it must have been worrying. 
Looking at the contact notes on file, I can see that TSB corrected the problem soon  after 
Mr and Mrs S raised it and reinstated both the direct debit and the promotional rate. Though  
I recognise the credit file wasnt corrected until after the complaint was with our service. 
Whilst this was a cause of concern for Mr and Mrs S, they havent mentioned any credit 
applications that were  denied  due to their credit  file being incorrect. 
Ref: DRN03257372Mr and Mrs S also tried to make a payment  for a family emergency but couldnt complete it 
due to the IT issues. Fortunately they were  able to mitigate their circumstances by asking 
another family member to make the transfer for them. Mr and Mrs S have said they lost out 
on just under £200 due to the difference in the exchange rate. Ive considered this carefully. 
Mr and Mrs S paid back their family member in June 2019, just over a year after they initially 
tried to make the transfer themselves. Because of the large gap between the two payments, 
I dont think its reasonable to hold TSB responsible for the change  in exchange rates.  So I 
dont think TSB needs to refund Mr and Mrs S the additional £200 they paid to their family 
member.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs S encountered  some problems due to TSBs IT issues that they 
found frustrating.  When deciding a fair amount of compensation I have to keep in mind that it 
should be reflective of the impact the problems had on Mr and Mrs S and it isnt meant  to be 
a punishment to TSB for its errors.  And what one person might feel is fair could be seen as 
not enough by someone  else. Having carefully considered everything both TSB and Mr and 
Mrs S have said, I think the £300  compensation, plus £50 for expenses, is fair in the 
circumstances.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  TSB Bank plc should  now pay Mr and Mrs S a total of £350 for their 
complaint. I understand it has already paid them £300 of this so it should  now pay the 
remainder. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0325737