K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Ms J complain  that Europ Assistance S.A. declined their claims
against their travel insurance policy following cancellation  of their holiday.  Reference  to 
Europ Assistance S.A. includes  reference  to its agents.
background
In January 2018, Mr P and Ms J purchased  an annual travel insurance policy ending 474 
which came  into force  in February 2018,  which Ill call policy  one. Its now established that 
the underwriter of policy one is Europ Assistance. 
In December 2018, Mr Ps GP referred him for an ultrasound scan  in relation to a lump  on 
his jaw. On 2 January 2019, Mr P and Ms J booked  a trip. The intended departure date of 
the trip was 8 February 2019. 
On 31 January 2019, Mr P had an ultrasound scan and an urgent referral to an Ear, Nose  
and Throat clinic. On 7 February 2019,  Mr P was advised not to travel and made a claim 
against his policy.
Mr P and Ms Js policy renewed  on 8 February 2018. Ill refer to that as policy  two and the 
underwriter of policy two as X.
Policy one and policy  two had different underwriters but the same  agent handled the 
complaint for both underwriters.  Theres  been confusion about  which  business was the 
underwriter for policy one, which Ill refer to in more detail below. 
Europ Assistances agent declined Mr P and Ms Js claim against policy one in its letter to 
Ms J of 23 May 2019. It said that the policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions,  there  was 
an obligation  to tell it about  health  changes after the start date of the policy or before travel  
and that the cancellation  provision doesnt  apply,  as Mr P and Ms J knew about Mr Ps 
change of health when they booked the trip. 
Mr P and Ms J say that they wouldnt have booked  the trip if they had known that there was 
even a remote possibility  of a medical problem or cancellation of the trip for any reason. 
They want  Europ Assistance to refund the cost of their trip.
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. His initial view was against  X, not 
Europ Assistance and he didnt  uphold  Mr P and Ms Js complaint. Mr P and Ms J didnt 
accept that view. 
 
The investigator sought confirmation  about  which business was the underwriter of policy  
one. The response  this service received was that X was the underwriter. I issued a 
provisional decision against X and referred  to the terms  and conditions  which  showed  X as 
the underwriter.  I indicated that I intended  to uphold Mr P and Ms Js complaint. 
In response to my provisional decision,  the agent  for both Europ Assistance and X said that 
Europ Assistance was the underwriter of policy one, not X. It said that it had previously sent 
this service the policy terms in relation to policy two, in error. So, the relevant terms and 
conditions were in fact different to the ones Id referenced in my provisional  decision. 
Ref: DRN02807802The investigator considered the complaint against  Europ Assistance and said that his 
previous view was the right outcome.  He said that the central question was whether, when 
Mr P booked the trip, he was aware  of an illness which could cause  them to cancel their trip. 
The investigator said that the fact that Mr P was waiting for a diagnosis  meant it was 
possible that the outcome would be severe  enough  to lead to the cancellation of the trip. 
Mr P and Ms J didnt accept the investigators second  view and said:
They preferred  my provisional  decision against X. 
When they purchased  policy one in January 2018, Mr P didnt have a lump or other 
medical concern  and it wasnt  until February  2019 that they had any information to 
the contrary. 
They didnt read or understand  the relevant policy terms and they werent bought to 
their attention when  they purchased the policy. 
The policy provides  cover for cancellation  and Europ Assistance hasnt shown that 
the exclusion applies.
The lump on Mr Ps jaw wasnt a pre-existing  condition as the policy  was taken out 
almost a year before he first visited his GP about  the lump.
The insurers are the experts and should deal with the matter clearly.  
Matters had become  further confused by X accepting  and then denying  the relevant 
policy after the provisional decision.  
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN02807803the relevant policy  terms and conditions
Policy one was in force 17 February 2018 to 16 February 2019. The event which led to the 
claim - the cancellation of the trip - occurred on 7 February 2019. So, policy  one is the 
relevant policy.
Theres been considerable confusion  about  the underwriter of policy one. Its now 
established that policy one is underwritten by Europ Assistance. 
Policy two - underwritten by X - didnt  start until 8 February 2019 and isnt relevant  here.  
The relevant  part of policy one says as follows: 
SECTION  5  CANCELLATION & CURTAILMENT
What is covered:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Summary of Cover for travel  and 
accommodation costs  which  you have paid (or have contracted  to pay), that you cannot  use 
because you are unable  to travel or complete the trip.
[]
a)Cancellation cover applies if you have booked a trip to take place within  the period 
of insurance, but you are forced to cancel your  travel plans because of one of the 
following, which is beyond your control, and of which you were unaware at the time 
you booked the trip or purchased your  insurance, whichever was later.  []
Unforeseen illness,  injury or death of you, a close relative  or any person you 
have arranged to travel or stay with during the trip.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that Europ Assistance has a responsibility  to 
handle claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr P and Ms Js complaint because I dont think that Europ  Assistance  
treated them  unfairly. I say that because:
In order for Mr P and Ms J to have a valid claim for cancellation under the policy,  
theyd have to establish that when they booked  their trip on 2 January 2019, they 
were unaware of Mr Ps illness - the lump  on his jaw - that led to the cancellation. 
I dont think they can do that because, when they booked  the trip, Mr P had seen 
his GP about the lump on his jaw and been referred for an ultrasound. So, they 
were aware of the illness which  led to the cancellation and the illness wasnt  
unforeseen. 
Mr P and Ms J say that they didnt  know about the seriousness of Mr Ps lump 
until February 2019, but Im afraid I dont agree. Thats because  ultrasounds  are 
used to investigate  and diagnose  illness and a referral for an ultrasound is a 
referral for a significant medical procedure. At the time of the referral  in 
December 2018 and before they booked their trip in January 2019,  Mr P and    
Ms J were on notice that Mr P had an illness. So, the illness wasnt unforeseen.
Ref: DRN02807804Mr P and Ms J say that when they took out the policy in early  2018, Mr P didnt 
have a lump or other medical concern  and that this wasnt  a pre-existing medical 
condition. I agree that Mr Ps lump wasnt a pre-existing condition  under the 
terms of the policy when he took out policy one  he hadnt been prescribed 
medication, received  treatment, attended his GP or a specialist about it in the two 
years before  he took out policy one and he wasnt on a waiting list for treatment 
or investigations. But that doesnt  alter the outcome here because  they were  on 
notice about the condition  before they booked their trip. As Ive explained  above,  
this is relevant because of the policy conditions.  
Mr P and Ms J say that they didnt  read or understand the relevant policy  terms 
and that the policy terms werent  bought to their attention when  they purchased 
the policy. Europ  Assistance  isnt responsible for the sale of the policy  to Mr P 
and Ms J. 
Its most  unfortunate that there was confusion about the underwriter and the 
relevant terms and conditions, but I dont think that was Europ  Assistances  fault.  
I think that arose as Xs agent  led this service to believe  that it was the 
underwriter of policy one when  that wasnt the case.  
  
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr P and Ms J but there are no grounds on which  to 
uphold their complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr P and Ms Js complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 September 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0280780