K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made mistakes with transactions on her loan 
account and reported incorrect information about  this to credit  reference agencies.
background 
Mrs S has a loan with HSBC. On 17 August  2017  a third party credited a payment to Mrs S 
loan account by mistake. She had already  made  her loan repayment for that month by direct 
debit and the account was fully up to date. Mrs S asked HSBC to transfer  the money 
credited incorrectly to the loan back to her current account.
On 9 October 2017 the credit received  to the loan in error was sent to Mrs S current 
account. In the meantime  shed made  the contractual loan repayments for September  and 
October 2017 by direct  debit  so the account  was still up to date.
On 13 October 2017, HSBC claimed a monthly loan repayment by direct debit. Mrs S 
questioned why this had been done  as the account  was up to date and a payment was not 
due. HSBC returned this payment to Mrs S current account.
Concerned with this error, Mrs S cancelled her direct debit and asked HSBC for an 
explanation of what had happened. As a result the payment due to her loan in November 
2017 was missed. And HSBC began contacting Mrs S to pursue the outstanding payment.
Manual payments were made for the payments due in the months following this, but the 
November 2017  payment  remained  outstanding. HSBC reported the missed payment to 
credit reference agencies and that the loan had been up to two months  in arrears. Mrs S 
complained to HSBC  that this was incorrect. HSBC  initially said that the information  it had 
recorded was correct, so Mrs S asked our service  to look into this.
After we became  involved, HSBC said it had made a mistake in its initial  response and 
acknowledged that the account had not been two months in arrears.  It said it would arrange 
to remove the mention  of the account being  two months in arrears and offered Mrs S £200. 
An adjudicator looked into Mrs S complaint. She thought that the offer of £200 was fair. In 
terms of the credit file, she felt that while the account had technically been a month in 
arrears, this had stemmed from HSBC collecting a payment incorrectly  and the uncertainty  
this had caused. So she understood why the direct debit instruction had been cancelled.  And 
given this and the account being  up to date before the problems started she thought it would 
be fair that, if Mrs S made up the missing payment from November  2017,  her credit file was 
updated to show  that payments had all been made correctly. HSBC agreed to this.
Mrs S was happy with the suggestion  that the credit  file be updated but did not think the offer 
of £200 was fair. She felt it didnt reflect the upset this had caused. As Mrs S didnt agree 
with the adjudicators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN05828462It appears that HSBC  did make an error  by claiming a payment on 13 October 2017, when 
one was not due. The money was returned to Mrs S shortly afterwards. But the returned  
payment was incorrectly marked as a missed payment with credit reference  agencies. And 
the knock on effect was that, when the November 2017 payment was missed, the overall 
position shown  on the credit file was wrong. HSBC has acknowledged this error. 
The November 2017 payment was missed as the direct debit instruction was cancelled  by 
Mrs S. But HSBC has acknowledged that the initial error, prior to this, caused some 
confusion and that this could perhaps  have been  avoided.  I think what it has agreed to do, 
remove reference to any missed payments once the outstanding payment is made, is fair. 
And I understand Mrs S is happy  with this too.
So what  is left to decide is if the offer of £200 made by HSBC for the distress  caused is fair.
I can understand why there was some  confusion when  a payment was claimed incorrectly on 
13 October 2017. And that HSBCs original response was likely to have caused further 
confusion as it said that two payments had been  missed, when this wasnt the case. But I 
have to bear in mind  that Mrs S didnt make the payment due in November 2017  and this 
has remained outstanding. So I dont think it was unreasonable that HSBC  contacted  her 
about this  which is one of the things she said had caused her distress. 
I accept there have been mistakes by HSBC. Our role isnt to fine or punish financial 
businesses though. Its to put people back in the position they wouldve been in had an error 
not occurred and decide what  we consider  to be fair. So while I can see that Mrs S feels  
strongly about this I think the offer made  by HSBC in respect of the trouble and upset 
caused by its errors is fair. And I dont think it would be reasonable to ask it to do more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I think the offer made by HSBC  to instruct the credit  
reference agencies  to remove reference to the missed payments from Mrs S credit file once 
the missed payment from November 2017  is made and to pay £200 compensation  is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0582846