K820x#14complaint
Mr Y says Bank of Scotland  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr Y bought the policy in August 2001  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  He 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr Y for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £520.77 a month towards  Mr Ys mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £31.55  a month.  
The policy also provided life cover for an additional cost. Because  Mr Y has not expressed 
dissatisfaction with the life cover, I will not consider it in this decision. 
At the time,  Mr Y was employed as an HGV driver. He told us he was entitled to statutory 
sick pay and had £12,000 in savings to help repay  his mortgage should he be unable  to 
work. He also said he was entitled to some redundancy  pay. Mr Y has said he was in good  
health at the time of the sale. 
Bank of Scotland has told us that its records show Mr M had about £19,000 in savings at the 
time of applying for the mortgage. But that £15,000 of this was used as a deposit to buy the 
mortgaged property. This left him less than £4,000 in savings.
Bank of Scotland has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 
2007. 
Mr Ys representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ys representative says:
Bank of Scotland failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In 
those circumstances,  applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr Y wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ys representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Bank of Scotland 
should have told Mr Y about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Bank of Scotland should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr Y and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN05764112The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr Y received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr Y disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints on 
our website and published  some  example  final decisions that set out in detail how these  
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ys. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ys complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001, before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN05764113The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Bank of Scotland, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Bank  of Scotland at the time. So, Im satisfied  I should  take these codes 
into account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of Mr Ys case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Bank of Scotland was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Mr Ys complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN05764114-If Bank  of Scotland gave advice, whether it advised Mr Y with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Bank of Scotland gave Mr Y sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr Y, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr Y suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr Y and Bank 
of Scotland,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ys complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr Y know he had a choice?
Bank of Scotland had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Mr Y signed  to indicate he wanted  PPI, separately to where he signed to agree to the 
mortgage. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr Y knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Bank of Scotland provide advice?
Bank of Scotland says it did provide advice during this sale.  This means  Bank of Scotland  
had to advise  Mr Y with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was 
appropriate or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Bank of Scotland took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr Y. It seems Mr Y cant remember clearly what  happened and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr Ys 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mr Y would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland  did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr Y given his circumstances. 
So, Im not persuaded Bank  of Scotland advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr Y, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
Ref: DRN05764115-Mr Y met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr Y had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr Ys ability to continue to meet  
his mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if Mr Y was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits  and sick 
pay benefits he says he would have been entitled  to, as well as the savings it 
appears he had at the time.
-Although Mr Y says he was financially stretched  at the time, Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr Y. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ys employment,  occupation  or health  which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. 
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr Y be disabled  or unemployed 
for 30 days before he could make a claim and the fact the policy would  only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 24 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mr Ys circumstances, including his employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions and his savings (which he might  expect to provide  an income 
during the policys  30-day qualification period) and the limits to those 
provisions, which mean the policy could play an important role after those 
provisions were  exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to Mr Ys 
home and the potential  consequences should  he be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Bank  of Scotland  gave Mr Y sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what Bank of 
Scotland was recommending  to him and make  an informed  decision about whether to follow 
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr Y was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr Y was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because the document he signed to indicate he wanted  PPI 
had such a description of the cover, and I think its unlikely Mr Y would have taken  out the 
policy without any sense  of how much the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Bank  of Scotland  gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions and limitations before  Mr Y agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr Y, Im not persuaded Bank  of 
Scotland did enough to present information  about  the policy it was recommending in a way 
Ref: DRN05764116that was fair and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland  gave Mr Y all of the 
information he needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ys representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ys. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ys representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr Y about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ys representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr Y has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Bank  of Scotland  ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Bank of Scotlands shortcomings have on Mr Y? To what extent did 
Mr Y suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Bank of Scotland didnt do all it should have done when it sold this 
policy to Mr Y. So, I have gone  on to consider  whether  it would be fair and reasonable 
to conclude Mr Y suffered  loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must 
decide whether  or not Mr Y would have still taken out the policy,  had Bank  of Scotland 
done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland took the steps it should  have done to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr Y, I have  found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr Y has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Bank of Scotland had explained things 
properly, Mr Y would  have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Mr Y says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN05764117Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr Y had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  that when Bank of Scotland  advised him that there was 
a suitable product that he could buy that would protect his mortgage payments in the event  
he was unable to work  because  of accident, sickness  and unemployment, he concluded  he 
wanted that product. But he made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what he thought  he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ys circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr Y knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Bank of Scotland told him the exact premium at the point 
Mr Y applied for the policy.  Having said that, it seems likely Mr Y would have been told the 
cost before the policy started, so if the costs were significantly  at odds with their 
expectations at the point  of sale, its possible he might  have  raised that with Bank of 
Scotland at the time or reconsidered  his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr Y would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Bank of Scotland made clear  exactly what  Mr Y would get 
back in return in the event he made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr Ys 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet his mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr Y thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr Y 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr Y be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr Y pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr Y from taking  out the policy. 
Ref: DRN05764118But, the evidence  about Mr Ys circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr Y was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr Y wouldve  been  caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  he was in good  health, the 
policy didnt exclude  or limit claims for pre-existing medical conditions, and Mr Y was in 
permanent employment.  So, I still think he had some good  reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr Y might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr Y 
from taking out the policy,  Mr Y, in his circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr Y had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his job or 
any similar job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  
be qualified  for, it might  have played  into his thinking about what he would do. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  given Mr Ys circumstances and the 
limited other means he had to make his repayments  if he wasnt working, on balance, I still 
think he would have  been interested in taking out the cover.
Bank of Scotland may not have told Mr Y that any claim he made would be limited  to a 24-
month period.  This may have differed from what he expected and might have hoped for  but 
24 months was a longer period than Mr Y would  have  received full sick pay for, and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement and savings were also significantly less than 24 months 
income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr Y would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  he be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the 
policy. The policy  allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his outgoings 
at a difficult and uncertain  time and ensure his home was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Mr Ys sick pay, redundancy money  and savings for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr Y would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr Y was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr Y 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ys representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable. 
Considering the purpose of the guidance,  I dont think it was ever intended  to be at odds  with 
the approach  I have  taken. 
Ref: DRN05764119Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr Y would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ys 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr Y 
found himself in, as a result of the sale, was the same position he would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr Y believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr Y in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Bank  of Scotland should  pay Mr Y compensation, as that would 
put him in a better position than he would have been in if everything  had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr Y thinks Bank  of Scotland misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Bank  of Scotlands  statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why 
Bank of Scotland failed to act fairly  and reasonably  was not because of what it did or didnt 
say in the information it provided  but because the overall information Bank of Scotland 
gave Mr Y, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2001  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ys representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Bank  of Scotland negligently misrepresented  the contract  to Mr Y and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Bank of Scotland  had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr Y in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Ref: DRN057641110Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 December 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0576411