K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi 
Financial Services, provided  him with a faulty  car but although theyve settled the agreement  
they havent refunded his deposit and should  do.
background
Mr J took receipt of a new car in September 2016.  He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS.
But Mr J had problems with the car. In November 2016 the car wouldnt start. The dealership 
couldnt identify  a specific fault but did note there was water in the engine  which,  when 
cleared, allowed the vehicle  to start.  Thereafter Mr J says he experienced intermittent brake  
failure until, in April 2018, hed had enough  and contacted the dealership  as he said the car 
was dangerous.  He says the dealership settled his finance agreement and took the car back 
but hes disappointed that his deposit wasnt returned to him, as he says he had to find a 
new deposit to fund a replacement car. He complained to VWFS.
VWFS explained that he didnt have the car anymore so they couldnt decide whether it was 
faulty at the point of supply  when  they were responsible for its quality. They therefore 
didnt uphold  Mr Js complaint and he referred it to this service.
Our adjudicator talked  to the dealership and they explained that they hadnt  accepted  there 
was anything wrong with the vehicle, indeed they said it was the first time anything  wrong  
with the car had been reported  to them. They explained that theyd simply been prepared to 
buy the car off Mr J for the same  amount that was outstanding on his credit agreement  and 
that by doing this theyd  been able to pay off the finance agreement and release Mr J from it. 
So the adjudicator didnt  think  there was evidence that the car was faulty when  supplied  and 
he therefore didnt  think VWFS needed to take any further action. 
But Mr J was disappointed with that view and he therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr J so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN02663682Mr J acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then VWFS are responsible. The relevant law also says 
the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable  person  would  
consider satisfactory  taking into account  any description of the goods,  the price  and all the 
other relevant circumstances.  
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr J. This was a 
brand new car so I wouldnt expect it to have any problems at the start of the agreement.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.
Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence  this car was faulty when supplied. Mr J 
has explained that the first issues he experienced were shortly after he took receipt of the 
car. Ive taken a look at the engineers comments at the time and there  appears  to have 
been water  in the engine. I dont think this is likely to have been  a problem that was there a 
couple of months  earlier when  Mr J took receipt of the car as I think its most likely the car 
wouldnt have ran smoothly with this issue, if at all, and Mr J would have noticed  it. And 
regardless, as this was the first issue identified with the car the relevant law would allow 
VWFS one opportunity to fix it  which they appear  to have done because there were no 
subsequent reports  of problems with the engine not starting.
Thereafter Mr J says he had problems with the brakes and they completely failed on a few 
occasions. Hes explained that the problems were intermittent and unfortunately the 
dealership were unable to identify any fault despite Mr J explaining he reported the issue  
frequently. But in the absence of any identification of a fault it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
for me to suggest the car was of unsatisfactory quality. Mr J has not provided enough 
evidence to persuade me that was the case.
The dealership have been prepared  to buy the car off Mr J for the same  amount as was 
outstanding on his agreement. That was for them to decide but I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to suggest VWFS need  to compensate Mr J for his deposit as I dont think  
theres sufficient evidence of any inherent fault with the car; for which they would  be 
responsible.
And in those circumstances I dont  think VWFS have done anything  wrong  or need  to take 
any further action.
Ref: DRN02663683my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0266368