K821x#15complaint
Mr M acquired a used car in September 2018, by means of a 36 month hire purchase 
agreement with Lloyds  Bank PLC. He complains  that his car was not of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. He is also unhappy  about the way Lloyds has handled his complaint.
Mr M wants Lloyds  to arrange for his car to be inspected and, as appropriate, repaired. He 
also wants compensation for the stress and inconvenience he has experienced, because  of 
his cars  problems. Alternatively,  he would like to reject the car
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 8 July 2020   a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I disagreed  with our investigators view that the 
complaint should  not be upheld. I thought it should be upheld  in part.
Lloyds responded to my provisional  decision,  saying that it had arranged for Mr Ms car to be 
independently inspected by a suitably  accredited organisation. This inspection  took place at 
the supplying  dealerships  premises in August  2020:
Faults in three  items (relating to electrical sockets, a driving aid, and abnormal noise 
from a part of the car), about  which Mr M had complained in January 2019, had been  
previously examined  at the dealers premises during February  2019  
Any repairs required  had been  undertaken at that time
There were  no issues  with these  items  in August  2020
Lloyds also said that it was willing to meet the cost of repairing the other  fault (relating to 
water ingress) about which Mr M complained in January 2019. But it was unwilling to take 
responsibility for the detailed organisation of when this work would be undertaken. 
Mr M responded, agreeing with my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am pleased  that Mr M has agreed  with my provisional decision.  
I am pleased  as well that Lloyds has agreed  to pay for the water  ingress  repair (the second  
part of my second provisional settlement  recommendation). And the first part of my second 
recommendation also still applies  that Lloyds should, as previously offered, pay 
compensation to Mr M for trouble and upset.
I noted in my provisional findings that, when a fault is suspected  in a car soon after 
acquisition (as in this case), it is for the acquirer  (Mr M in this case) to demonstrate the 
faults existence. If the finance provider (Lloyds  in this case) agrees  that a fault exists  (as is 
the case with the water  ingress fault), it is then for the finance provider: either to accept 
responsibility, or to demonstrate that the fault was not present or developing at the point of 
supply. 
Ref: DRN09364112In this case, Lloyds  (in its response to my provisional decision) has agreed to pay for the 
water ingress repair  and it thereby accepted responsibility for the repair, in my view.  So, for 
this reason, I confirm:
Both my provisional finding that Lloyds should arrange for the repair to be 
undertaken, 
And my first provisional settlement recommendation  that this work should be carried 
out by a manufacturer approved dealership
Concerning these arrangements, I agree with Lloyds that requiring it to organise the timing 
and detailed logistics of repair  work  would not be sensible. But I would expect Lloyds:
To agree with Mr M a suitable  dealership  
Then to confirm with this dealership  that it would undertake the work, and that Lloyds  
would meet all the reasonable  costs  associated with these repairs (including, if 
appropriate: transport  to/from the dealers  premises, courtesy car, etc.)
Then to invite Mr M to contact the dealer to organise timing and other details       
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In 
full and final settlement  of it, I order Lloyds Bank  PLC:
1.To arrange (as outlined above) for the water ingress fault in Mr Ms car to be repaired
2.To pay for these  repairs  (unless covered by the cars warranty)
3.To pay compensation of £100  directly  to Mr M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 December 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09364113COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
8 July 2020
complaint
Mr M acquired a used car in September 2018, by means of a 36 month hire purchase agreement with 
Lloyds Bank  PLC. He complains that his car was not of satisfactory quality  at the point of supply. He 
is also unhappy about the way Lloyds has handled his complaint.
Mr M wants Lloyds to arrange for his car to be inspected  and, as appropriate,  repaired.  He also wants 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience he has experienced, because of his cars problems. 
Alternatively, he would like to reject the car.
background
In January 2019, Mr M reported four faults to Lloyds,  and supplied supporting  evidence to it. It invited  
him to book his car into a manufacturer approved main  dealer for inspection.  But Mr M felt that Lloyds  
was responsible for arranging this inspection, while  it felt that the responsibility  rested with him. 
The inspection did not take place. But Mr M asked  Lloyds  to take the matter forward, based on the 
evidence he had supplied. 
On that basis,  Lloyds  identified one fault (relating to water ingress), and asked Mr M to book his car 
into a manufacturer approved main dealer,  for this repair work to be undertaken. It requested a quote  
before authorising the work, and it added that it would not expect  to pay if the repair  was covered by 
warranty. 
On the same basis, Lloyds told Mr M that it did not uphold  his complaint in relation to the other three 
faults (relating to electrical sockets, a driving aid, and abnormal noise from a part of the car)  
although it would reconsider  the complaint,  if a main  dealer  inspection identified any of these faults.  It 
also offered  him compensation of £100 for trouble and upset to date.
Lloyds added that it would  consider further compensation,  if Mr M was further inconvenienced while 
his car was being inspected and/or repaired.
Mr M did not accept the offers made by Lloyds, and he referred his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator did not think it should  be upheld. She concluded that Lloyds had dealt with this 
complaint fairly, and that Lloyds should not be arranging  for Mr Ms car to be inspected or repaired.  
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicator.  And so this complaint was referred for review by an 
ombudsman. I understand that the water ingress  fault has not yet been repaired.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Lloyds has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding to their 
description, have been supplied. This means that a reasonable person  would  have regarded the 
goods as satisfactory, taking  into account all relevant circumstances,  which for cars include age and 
mileage travelled. But there are limits to Lloydss responsibilities. In particular, faults must  be present 
or developing at the point of supply.
Generally, when a fault is identified in a car soon after acquisition (as in this case), it is for the finance 
provider (Lloyds in this case): either to accept responsibility, or to demonstrate that the fault was not 
Ref: DRN09364114present or developing  at the point of supply. But, beforehand, it is for the acquirer (Mr M in this case) 
to demonstrate  the faults  existence.
Mr M supplied  evidence to Lloyds, which  it accepted as demonstrating a water ingress  fault, but which 
it thought was not enough  to demonstrate the other three faults. 
In similar  circumstances, a finance provider would  sometimes invite the acquirer  to arrange for his or 
her car to be inspected by a suitably accredited independent organisation.  The acquirer  would  pay for 
this inspection  but, if other faults  were  identified  (which the inspector felt would have been present 
or developing at the point of supply), then the finance provider would  refund this payment.
But Lloyds chose to suggest  that a main dealer inspected the car, because it felt the dealer would  be 
better equipped to diagnose  any faults.  Mr M does not appear to have  disagreed with this choice, 
although he did object  to being asked to arrange the inspection. And, because it is for Mr M to 
demonstrate the existence of faults,  I do not find the way forward suggested by Lloyds  unreasonable.
At the same time, Lloyds:
a)Offered to pay Mr M £100 in compensation for trouble and upset to date 
b)Also offered to pay for the water ingress fault repair (unless this was covered by the cars 
warranty)
c)Offered as well to consider compensating  Mr M for any associated distress and 
inconvenience
d)Asked Mr M to arrange the repair, and to obtain a quote  before it would authorise this work
I think  the offers made in (a), (b) and (c) above are appropriate and helpful. I also think that repairing 
the car is fair and reasonable,  and that rejection would  be disproportionate until and unless  the repair 
is unsuccessful. 
But, in the circumstances, and given that Lloyds has accepted  responsibility for the water ingress 
fault, I find that Lloyds should have  offered to arrange the repair of this fault for Mr M. 
I also wish to encourage Mr M:
either to arrange for his car to be inspected by a suitably accredited independent  organisation
or to take up Lloyds  offer of his car being inspected at a manufacturer approved main dealer
If the inspection demonstrates that his car has other faults, and if it indicates as well that these  faults 
were present or developing when he acquired  the car, then Lloyds will be responsible for these faults. 
In these circumstances, I would expect Lloyds to arrange for Mr Ms car to be repaired,  replaced or 
rejected, as appropriate. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from Mr 
M or Lloyds Bank  PLC by 7 August 2020, my provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint in 
part. My provisional  settlement recommendations are as follows.
Firstly, Lloyds should  arrange for the water ingress fault in Mr Cs car to be repaired by a 
manufacturer approved  dealership.
Secondly, Lloyds should,  as it offered: 
Pay Mr M £100 in compensation for trouble and upset
Pay for the water  ingress fault repair  (unless  this is covered  by the cars  warranty)
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0936411