K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy Tesco  Underwriting  Limited (Tesco) avoided his motor insurance policy. 
This meant his claim for theft wasnt covered.
background
Mr S applied for and took out a car insurance  policy with Tesco in March  2019. He bought 
the policy online through a price comparison website. In May 2019 Mr S made a claim for 
theft. He said the vehicle  was stolen in the early hours, and he reported the theft to Tesco 
the same  day. 
Tesco said it would avoid  the policy back to the start date, meaning no cover was in place at 
the time of the theft. So it wouldnt  consider the claim. Tesco said it took this decision 
because Mr S told it he was the registered  keeper of the car, but that wasnt correct, the 
registered keeper  was Mr Ss son. And Tesco says if it had known that, it wouldnt have 
offered the cover  at all. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint. He considered whether Mr S had taken 
reasonable care to provide the correct information to Tesco, but didnt think he had. He said 
Tesco was within its right to avoid the policy, as it had shown  it wouldnt have provided  any 
cover if the correct information  had been given.  
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He is unhappy Tesco  avoided  the 
policy. He said his son had bought  the vehicle as a gift for him, but forgot  to make him the 
registered keeper.  
Because of this, the case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ive considered the answers Mr S gave  when applying for cover. The question  Mr S 
was asked when  he applied was are you (or will you be) the registered  keeper and legal 
owner? Mr S recognises that he said he was, or would be, the registered keeper when he 
applied. So its not in dispute  he answered yes to that question. 
Ive looked next at what Tesco has said, its confirmed it wouldnt have offered to cover Mr S 
if it knew he wasnt the registered keeper. And Ive seen  its underwriting guide which 
supports this. So Im satisfied Tesco wouldnt  have  offered to cover Mr S if it knew  his son 
was actually the registered  keeper.
 
Thinking back to the question Mr S was asked  when he applied for cover   Ive carefully 
considered what  Mr S has said, particularly about his son intending to transfer ownership of 
the car to him. When he answered  yes, he could have been  doing so in the belief that he 
would  at some point   be the registered  keeper.
Ref: DRN03328372But, on balance, Im not persuaded it was the intention to transfer ownership to Mr S or that 
the car was intended as a gift. It seems Mr Ss son had bought  the car through  a finance 
agreement. And from the insurance  documents,  Ive seen Mr S told Tesco he already owned  
another vehicle.
The part of the question  (or will you be) the registered keeper is generally to cover 
circumstances where  possession of a car hasnt happened yet  but will very soon.  Theres  
no indication  of any change, or any discussion with Tesco, around the registered keeper of 
the car in the eight weeks between taking  out the policy and the theft taking place. I 
appreciate Mr S said his son had forgotten to transfer ownership to him. But if Mr Ss son 
had bought the car as a gift, considering the nature of it, I dont think  its likely that no action 
would have been taken to make  sure adequate cover was in place. 
When Mr S bought the policy  he had a responsibility under The Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. Under CIDRA a qualifying misrepresentation is either  deliberate or 
reckless, or careless. So Ive thought  about whether Mr S deliberately gave  Tesco the 
information about who was the registered  keeper, or if he acted recklessly or carelessly.  
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think there  was a lack of reasonable care on his part. 
And because Im satisfied  Tesco wouldnt have covered  Mr S if it had known he wasnt  the 
registered keeper,  I think Mr S did make a qualifying misrepresentation. So I dont think  
Tesco has done  anything  wrong by avoiding  the policy. 
Because Tesco has said it wouldnt have offered cover at all  it should  return the premiums 
Mr S paid. From Tescos  claim notes  Ive seen the policy has been avoided and refunded. 
So, having  considered all of the available evidence, I dont think Tesco  has done anything  
wrong - and Im satisfied it was entitled  to avoid Mr Ss policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Simon Louth
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0332837