K821x#15complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the handling of a claim for his boiler made under a boiler  insurance  
policy with Great Lakes  Insurance SE.
background
Ive issued two provisional decisions on this matter.  I have copied below the main part of the 
second provisional decision, which sets out the background to the complaint and my 
provisional findings: 
In December 2017, Mr P made a claim when his boiler was noisy. Great Lakes  initially  
refused to attend  as it says the boiler was working and it doesnt cover noises.
Mr P called again in early  January 2018, as his boiler  was then only working intermittently 
and shutting itself off. Great Lakes again  refused to attend as it said the boiler was working 
still and it says the policy excludes cover  for intermittent faults. However, it subsequently 
agreed to send a contractor to look at the boiler  three times. I understand that on the first 
occasion the faults were not showing but it was recommend that the printed circuit board be 
replaced, which was done around  six days later. Great Lakes says it also replaced some  
other small  parts on that day.
Mr P called again the next day to say the faults were apparent again and Great Lakes sent 
another contractor.  He recommended  the heat exchanger be replaced  I understand no 
reference was made  to this being  irreparable   but after this visit Great  Lakes said the repair 
would not be done as it was deemed  the boiler was beyond  economic repair  (BER). 
Great Lakes says the heat exchanger was blocked,  the pump had failed, the air vent was 
leaking, two expansion vessels had failed,  a sensor and pipes were blocked and a 
connection piece  was leaking.  Great Lakes says all these problems were due to sludge in 
the heating system. It says it has reviewed all this and it would cost over £2,000 to repair 
and it would cost around £1,300 to replace the boiler. It has offered £500  towards  the cost of 
the new boiler. 
Mr P complained and I understand  Great Lakes  arranged for another  service provider to 
attend to look at the boiler and see if would  do it under a one-off fixed repair.  He said the 
heat exchanger had been  damaged  by normal wear and tear  he showed Mr P some clear  
liquid with some debris in it. He removed the debris.  It said the cost of the heat exchanger 
would be more than it would do under a one-off repair and he didnt  leave a report.  
Great Lakes has said this supports it diagnosis that the boiler is beyond economic repair.  
Mr P says the whole  experience has been extremely stressful.  He has provided evidence  of 
medical conditions  that mean this will have been a difficult  time for him. He has also made  a 
number of other submissions, which Ive summarised below:
He wants to provide  further information  about  the actual cost to replace his boiler but 
has been told by the investigator  that he cant.  This is absurd. 
Great Lakes has not come and surveyed his house or assessed his needs  in order  to 
cost a new boiler properly. 
He doesnt  accept it can be done for £1,300. He has provided  a quote for £4,608  to 
replace and install a new boiler.
Ref: DRN01373612The two earlier contractors did not deem  the boiler beyond economic repair but their 
reports seem to be ignored. 
He had agreed to his boiler manufacturer attending but then another service  provider  
was sent instead.  This is another reason why the first two reports  should be preferred 
over the report provided by the other service provider.  
There was a deadline placed  on the discount, which  he considers was coercion as 
the complaint  was still going  on.
He was told the cost of labour  should not be included and so the estimate  of repair  
costs from Great Lakes should be £1,882.58 after removal of labour costs  of £245. 
And the main heat exchanger can be sourced for around  £800 not £1,184.54 as in 
the estimate. 
It offered  him a discount on a new boiler but the contractor didnt know anything 
about it.
From  the outset Great Lakes focussed on excuses  and reasons not to do the repairs,  
working in conjunction  with manufacturers  to promote new sales.
Some further faults have developed as the boiler has gone  unrepaired.  
The other service providers criteria as to whether  to accept a fixed fee one-off repair 
will be different from the terms of his policy. And two different engineers have said 
that the faults listed as being  in place by Great Lakes would mean the boiler wouldnt  
be working at all but it does work intermittently. 
Great Lakes also said there was sludge in the heating system  but not provided any 
proof of this. He feels Great Lakes  is just making excuses to avoid the claim and 
coerce him into paying for a new boiler.  There are wider concerns here.
Mr P has also says he has had to make around 30 telephone calls about this matter.  Mr P 
has now also had the boiler replaced and the engineer  said that he thought the thermostat 
was the cause of the issues. Mr P says he found  nothing wrong with the various  parts listed 
in Great  Lakess report. 
Great Lakess has seen  a copy  of Mr Ps engineers report. It says it was an observation 
indicating only, the belief that there was nothing wrong  with the boiler  with the exception  of 
an intermittent thermostat  issue. If he didnt think it needed replacing,  he shouldnt have 
replaced it. The report does not prove the boiler was not beyond  economic repair.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She did not think  it should be upheld. Mr P 
does not accept the investigators assessment and so the matter has been  passed to me. 
In the meantime, I understand Great Lakes has contacted Mr P about  renewing his policy.  
This has caused him some upset. The investigator has asked Great  Lakes not to contact   
Mr P. 
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in June 2018, which said I did not intend to 
uphold it. I didnt think there was any reason to doubt the reports  provided  by Great  Lakes 
and given the disparity between the expert opinions didnt think  there was enough evidence 
at that stage to uphold  it. 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further evidence  or 
information they wanted considered, as a result of which I spoke to Mr P.
Mr P raised some further issues: 
Ref: DRN01373613The engineer  could not have  found all the items wrong that he listed  in his report  in 
the time he was at the property. His report is also unsigned and cant  therefore be 
relied on. 
He had the system  drained, refilled and inhibitor put in in 2015  and 2016 and there  
was no sludge  in the system at all on either occasion. 
In 2016, there was a deep service of the boiler  and no problems at all found. 
The whole heating  system and boiler  were only nine years  old.
The boiler was showing  an F5 fault which means it was overheating  he was still 
getting heating  and hot water intermittently, so it is impossible that all the things 
Great Lakes said were  wrong with his boiler  actually  were  wrong.  
It was determined that the fault was a sensor  in the main thermostat.
He had no choice  but to go ahead  and replace the boiler but his engineer said it was 
in good condition.
It cost him just under £5,000 in total to have it replaced, the parts  were  around 
£3,500. 
His property is a large listed building and it would not have been  possible to replace 
the boiler for the amount suggested by Great Lakes. 
It didnt provide estimates  based on the right like-for-like boiler (his was an ultrapower 
model, when it quoted  for an Autocrom  model).
He has continued  to receive marketing material from Great Lakes despite 
assurances that it wouldnt send him any more, which  has caused him further stress. 
Following this, I asked Great lakes for further information on how it had estimated the cost of 
replacing the boiler, and to provide evidence that the boiler it had costed  was a like-for-like; 
and to explain why the replacement heat exchanger  was first put at costing  around  £300 and 
then changed  to over £1,100.
Great Lakes responded that: 
The replacement of the boiler is not covered under the policy.  The calculations  for the 
replacement boiler and the offer regarding  the BER contribution  was done to try and 
go above and beyond for Mr P. It is not usual  process to provide this and it sees no 
reason why it should provide information about  what an alternative  boiler  may cost 
when it is not covered  under the policy. It is for the customer to decide on where  and 
what they should purchase.
The quote received on 16 January 2018  clearly  set out the following  parts were 
needed an their cost:  
PLATE TO PLATE HEAT EXCHANGER  0020038232 from independent  supplier.
£191.28 +VAT part not available from parts centre,  sourced
HEATING FLOW PIPE 0020038249 from independent supplier.
£47.25 +VAT part not available from parts centre, sourced
HEATING RETURN  PIPE 0020038251  sourced from independent supplier
£37.12 +VAT part not available from parts centre,
ORING PACK 0020014183 £11.00 +VAT
ORING 0020020751 sourced from independent supplier
£7.42 +VAT part not available from parts centre.
LABOUR TO FIT THE ABOVE PARTS  3 HRS  £105.00 +VAT
If the main heat exchanger and pumps were then also required then the cost would be:
Ref: DRN01373614MAIN HEAT  EXCHANGER 0020038064  £1184.54  +VAT  part not available from parts 
centre, sourced  from independent supplier
HEATING PUMP 0020014171 £174.18 +VAT
DOMESTIC HOT WATER PUMP  0020038245 £229.79 +VAT  part not available  from 
parts centre, sourced  from independent supplier
LABOUR TO FIT THE ABOVE PARTS  4 HRS  £140.00 +VAT.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says that we will not repair your boiler  if this will cost more than replacing it with a 
new one or if suitable replacement  parts are not available. Instead,  we will pay a contribution  
towards the cost of a new boiler. Once  you send us an invoice from a qualified Gas Safe 
Contractor, we will pay the amount shown below:  
Age of boiler 1-6 years  £500  including VAT
Age of boiler over 7 years £250 including VAT.
I asked Great Lakes  for further and better  information about how it had calculated that the 
boiler was beyond economic repair, including by costing for a like for like replacement. It 
said this wasnt required to do this and it would be up to Mr P to arrange any replacement. 
However, in order to establish that his boiler was BER (and therefore that Great Lakes was 
entitled to refuse to repair it in accordance with the policy terms) it is for Great  Lakes to 
provide the evidence to prove  that. 
The boiler it did refer to was a different model, which Mr P says was not powerful enough for 
the size of his property.  
In addition, I asked  Great Lakes for more information about the estimate of the repair  costs.  
It had told us that it would cost over £2,000 to repair the boiler. 
However, from the email  from the engineer that is quoted  above,  its clear that he diagnosed 
the first few parts were  needed and which would cost around £400  to replace. The email 
then says If the main heat exchanger and pumps were  then also required then the cost 
would be and it goes on to list a number of additional parts which  make  up the main cost 
of the estimate  Great Lakes relied on. 
This engineer hadnt concluded that these parts were definitely  required. His diagnosis was 
actually around  £400  worth  of work.  He suggested  there may also be further issues but this 
hasnt been established. Great Lakes then got the alternative service provider to attend and 
inspect the boiler.  
He apparently concluded that:  
the Heat  Exchanger was blocked the Pump had failed, the Automatic Air Vent was leaking, 
the 2 Expansion Vessels had failed,  the Pipes were blocked, a Connection  Piece was 
leaking and the Water  Pressure Sensor was blocked. All these problems have occurred due 
to the system water being  contaminated with sludge/scale.
Ref: DRN01373615This has resulted  in your boiler being  deemed  beyond economical repair as the cost of 
replacing the parts required is more than the value of an equivalent new boiler.
Mr P has raised a number  of concerns about this report: he says it is not signed by the 
engineer that attended, among other things. Mr P feels strongly that this report must have 
been fabricated at Great Lakess behest and the two other  contractors did not identify  all the 
faults set out in that report.  While  I have  no reason  to doubt that the engineer provided this 
and I see no reason to believe  it was fabricated,  having considered it further, I am not 
persuaded that it establishes that the boiler  was BER. 
The parts identified as needing  replacing here are not the same  as the previous contractor 
and there  is no estimate of the cost of these as against a like-for-like  replacement boiler. The 
engineer that provided this report,  is not from the manufacturer  of Mr Ps boiler.
Ive also considered again the comments made by Mr Ps engineer who replaced his boiler:  
Upon  my initial visit I visually inspected the boiler  and was quite surprised that he had been 
advised that it needed replacing as it appeared to look in good condition.
Mr [P] accepted my quote and I proceeded to install the new boiler  When  I removed the 
boiler, it was evident in my opinion, that the overall condition  of the boiler  was exceptional. 
There was no sludge present or evidence that there  had ever been any. The hot water  and 
heating was working upon my arrival and in my professional  opinion,  I believe the occasional 
lockout reported  by Mr [P], was merely  an intermittent thermostat issue.
By coincidence, there happened to be a British Gas Engineer working in the house next door 
. I asked  him to have  a quick look at the boiler  I had just removed and he too was shocked 
that [he] had  been advised that it needed  to be replaced.  I do not usually get involved in 
customers disputes with third parties however  on this occasion I do feel strongly that Mr P 
has been advised incorrectly.
I note that this engineer didnt test the boiler,  or look into what could be repaired while it was 
in place but looked at it after it had been  removed.  However, that doesnt mean it should be 
disregarded entirely. 
Mr P also told me that he had had the system water replaced and cleaned  twice and no 
issues had been  found with the boiler or system with regard to sludge. I found his evidence 
persuasive and credible.  
Weighing this evidence  up, together with Mr Ps engineers report  against  the fact that there 
is little convincing evidence to support that the boiler was BER,  I am now of the opinion  that  
Great Lakes should  have carried out further  repairs to the boiler. There is not enough 
evidence that the repairs deemed  to be required by the contractor on 15 January 2018 (i.e. 
the plate to plate heat exchanger, heating flow pipe, return pipe and o-rings)  would not have 
been all that was required. And there is not enough  evidence that the main heat exchanger  
and other  parts also needed to be replaced   or indeed  that it could not have been resolved 
by changing the thermostat sensor  as suggested  by Mr Ps engineer.   
Great Lakes should  have carried out further  repairs in January  2018 but didnt.  As a result, 
Mr P was left with a boiler that was shutting  off intermittently. Given this, I consider  that 
some compensation is appropriate for the inconvenience this caused. I consider that £250 is 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN01373616Mr P also felt he had no choice at the time,  and in reliance of what  Great  Lakes had told him 
he had the boiler  replaced. Mr P would not have incurred the cost of having the new boiler 
installed at all, if it hadnt been  for this. 
It seems  to me reasonable therefore that Great lakes should reimburse Mr P for some of this 
expense. Mr P has suggested  that he would be satisfied with reimbursement of the cost of 
the boiler and parts,  which he says was £3,500  (the total cost was around  £4,800). 
Mr P has provided a copy of the invoice from his engineer  but without a breakdown of the 
cost of the boiler and parts. It refers to some  work  on the flue but Great Lakes is entitled to 
be satisfied that the remaining work related solely to the boiler and that the boiler was like-for 
-like. I also havent seen  evidence  that Mr P has paid this invoice.  
If that evidence  can be provided, then this would seem to me to be a reasonable settlement 
of this matter in principle  and takes into account  the fact that he has a new boiler now 
instead of a nine year old boiler (I dont  therefore  think Great  Lakes should  have to pay the 
whole cost).  
With regard to some of the other  issues raised,  Great Lakes did tell Mr P he could Boiler  
Install Incentive - If you call and book an engineer to quote  from [A]  before the 31st of 
January you can take advantage of a £500 discount  for a new boiler install.  Their telephone 
number is . This offer is only with  [A]. 
However, I think it is clear that this is an incentive  offered  by the organisation not a discount 
offered by Great Lakes.  I dont think this therefore binds Great  Lakes to make a further 
payment/ discount  to Mr P.
Mr P has also complained about  receiving marketing material from Great Lakes.  However, 
this is sent by agents acting in their own right and so any complaint about that will have to be 
considered separately.  
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Great  Lakes Insurance SE and require it to do the 
following: 
pay Mr P £3,500 (subject  to evidence to support this amount and that Mr P has paid 
this) towards the new boiler, together with interest  at 8% simple per annum from the 
date Mr P paid for it to the date of reimbursement;  and 
pay Mr P £250 compensation for the delays in attending  to the boiler  and leaving him 
with a boiler that was not working properly until he could get it replaced. 
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Mr P has responded and confirmed that he accepts  my provisional decision.  
Great Lakes has also responded. It does not accept my provisional decision and has made a 
number of further submissions, which Ive summarised as follows:  
Ref: DRN01373617it feels very strongly about  this case. Mr P argued all along that his boiler was not 
BER, but he has then proceeded to replace it, despite what his own engineer has 
said, which makes no sense. 
It replaced the PCB only and the engineer suggested once fitted  this may show up 
other parts being required. I said that it had also replaced some other small parts  on 
the first attendance  but this is not correct. 
A different engineer  from the same contractor attended and he also deemed  the 
boiler to be BER. Following the complaint, it agreed to send out a third engineer,  this 
time from the manufacturer. The manufacturers report states  that the failure of the 
heat exchanger was due to sludge/scale and that the boiler was BER.  
There is no evidence from any Gas Safe engineers employed by Mr P to confirm  that 
there was no sludge or scale in the system.  
The provisional decision says I found  Mr Ps evidence that he had had the system  
water replaced and cleaned twice  and that there was no sludge  in the system 
credible. It is only right that Mr P provides evidence showing the results of his system 
flushes and the dates these were  carried out. It also questions why he would have  
had these done, if there  was no problem with his boiler.
I stated that The two earlier contractors  did not deem the boiler beyond  economic 
repair but their reports seem to be ignored . This is incorrect, the first engineer  
replaced the PCB;  the second  engineer from the same contractor advised the boiler 
was BER and this was supported by the third engineer from the manufacturer.
I stated He had agreed to his boiler  manufacturer attending but then another service 
provider was sent instead. This is another reason why the first two reports  should be 
preferred over the report provided by the other service provider. Again, this 
statement is incorrect. Two engineers deemed  it BER after the PCB had been  
replaced and therefore  these reports should be preferred.
To ensure consistency, it uses one of the top parts suppliers in the country, when 
pricing parts. Individual  parts  might be available at slightly  cheaper  prices elsewhere, 
but it is not feasible to scour the internet looking  for the cheapest prices for each of 
the thousands of jobs it carries out each  year.
It deals with claims for boiler breakdown only and is not involved in the pricing or 
replacing of boilers. Theres no evidence that further faults have developed as the 
boiler has gone unrepaired,  as claimed  by Mr P.
It is unclear whats meant  by a deep  service  of the boiler  and what work this 
involved, and why?
When I say that the whole heating system  and boiler were  only nine years  old, am I  
saying this was a completely new and full installation or just a new boiler? If it was 
just the boiler  on existing pipework,  was a power flush  carried out before the new 
boiler was fitted? This is important.
Mr P said the alternative  service  provider showed him some clear  liquid with debris in 
it. This is proof of sludge and scale in the system. 
The manufacturers engineers report is not being considered for what  it is - an 
independent second  opinion that must  surely  carry the greatest weight in the 
consideration of this complaint. 
It doesnt accept  that Mr P felt there was no alternative but to replace the boiler,  
otherwise he would have asked his engineer  to investigate this further for him and he
wouldnt be disputing this now. It makes  no sense to spend £4,500.00 if his engineer  
could fit a part costing  £15-£30.
I said The boiler was showing an F5 fault which means it was overheating - he was 
still getting heating  and hot water  intermittently, so it is impossible that all the things 
Great Lakes said were  wrong with his boiler  actually  were  wrong.  This is incorrect,  
Ref: DRN01373618sludge/scale within the system causes a blockage within  the system/boiler and 
restricts the flow rate. This in turn causes  the boiler to overheat (Customer reported  
noisy boiler when  first logging claim in December 2017), and shut down as part of the 
safety mode.  The boiler will then re-start once re-set, but the same  issue  will re-occur 
time and again.
The policy excludes any claims arising  from: any work to repair  damage caused  by 
rust, sludge, hard water scale, corrosive water or water with a high chemical content 
and the manufacturer confirmed that the repairs required were due to sludge and 
scale and therefore any further work would be declined.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes has said that it only replaced the PCB and I have incorrectly said it also fitted 
some other small parts. However,  its final response letter to Mr P following his complaint 
says: On Thursday  the 11 January our Service Partner fitted a replacement  PCB and other 
small parts, and reported the boiler was left in working order.(My emphasis.)
However, I dont think this makes any difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
Great Lakes has also disputed a number of points which it refers to as statements that I 
have made.  However,  most of these  are points and submissions that Mr P had made and 
which I listed in my provisional decisions as I set out the positions of the respective parties. 
My second  provisional  decision  set out why I did not consider that Great  Lakes has proven 
that the boiler was BER. I have considered what Great  Lakes has said but it has not 
provided any response to the specific issue of the costing of the repairs  that were  said to be 
necessary, other than saying it is not responsible for pricing of boilers. 
Great Lakess first engineer said that parts that were  estimated to cost around £400 were 
needed. He suggested there may also be further  issues but this hasnt been established. 
Great Lakes then got the alternative service provider to attend and inspect the boiler. It 
refers to this provider as being the manufacturer but they were not the manufacturer of Mr 
Ps boiler.  And it appears they were called out to look at a fixed fee repair basis not on the 
basis of providing  an expert detailed opinion. Mr P says he was not there long before 
determining that the repairs required were more  than it would be prepared  to do on a fixed  
fee basis. 
The alternative service provider said a number of parts needed replacing  but these are not 
the same  as the previous  engineer said were  needed;  and there is no estimate  of the cost of 
these as against a like-for-like  replacement boiler.
I remain of the opinion that there was not enough  evidence to show  that the repairs deemed 
to be required by the contractor on 15 January 2018  (i.e. the plate to plate heat exchanger, 
heating flow pipe,  return pipe and o-rings) would  not have been all that was required.  And 
there is not enough  evidence that the main heat exchanger and other parts also needed  to 
be replaced and would  render the boiler BER. There  is no cost analysis of a like-for like 
replacement boiler.  While  Great Lakes  says that it is not involved in the pricing  of boilers,  
this is required in order to establish that Mr Ps boiler was beyond economic repair. 
Ref: DRN01373619I have not seen any documentary evidence about the draining down and refilling of the 
system but found  Mr Ps oral testimony persuasive. However, I made clear I had weighed up 
all available evidence and in view of the lack of convincing  evidence that the boiler  was BER, 
I considered that Great Lakes  should have carried out some  further  repairs to the boiler in 
January 2018.  
Mr P argued that his boiler was not BER but he was told that it needed considerable repairs.  
This was consistent, so it doesnt seem unreasonable to me that he decided to have it 
replaced. That decision, doesnt  mean that Great  Lakes was right to refuse to repair it. It 
could only refuse to repair Mr Ps boiler,  if it could establish that the cost of repair  would 
exceed the cost of replacing it and I remain of the opinion that it has not established this was 
the case. Mr Ps own engineer only advised that it was possibly a thermostat  issue after he 
had replaced it.
Great Lakes has now also said that any further  repairs would have been excluded anyway, 
as they were required due to sludge and scale in the system and this is specifically excluded 
under the policy.  However, it had been intending to carry out the repairs until it said they 
would costs more  than a replacement boiler. It has not apparently raised this previously and 
there is a dispute  about the work required and presence of sludge. Even if I were satisfied it 
had proven that the repairs were required because of sludge in the system,  I do not 
therefore consider  that it is fair or reasonable to rely on this now.
I am not therefore  persuaded to change the findings set out in my second provisional  
decision. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Great Lakes Insurance SE and require it to do the following: 
pay Mr P £3,500 (subject  to evidence to support this amount and that Mr P has paid 
this) towards the new boiler, together with interest  at 8% simple per annum from the 
date Mr P paid for it to the date of reimbursement;  and 
pay Mr P £250 compensation for the delays in attending  to the boiler  and leaving him 
with a boiler that was not working properly until he could get it replaced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0137361