K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that a finance agreement he has with Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) was mis-
sold to him.
background
Mr S took receipt of a new car in April 2018.  He financed the deal through  a hire agreement 
with Lex. 
Later that month  he emailed the dealership  and explained  that he hadnt been able to 
connect his phone to the car. He says the dealership  didnt respond  and he therefore 
repeated his complaint in further emails sent in August 2018.
The dealership explained that the feature had never been available on the car. So Mr S 
complained to Lex. He provided  an email  from the dealership that was sent prior to him 
signing up for the finance and in which the dealer attempted to explain why other  cars may 
be more expensive. The email said:
this is based on a base  vehicle with no navigation, pro services or smartphone pack.
So Mr S said the car had been mis-sold to him and he therefore wanted  to terminate his 
finance arrangement.
Lex didnt uphold his complaint. They explained  that the smart phone  app was not 
compatible with the car at that time so it could not have been offered. They didnt  agree  that 
the car had been mis-sold  to Mr S.
So Mr S referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  his opinion. He 
noted that the invoice  for the car didnt refer to any form of smart phone  connectivity pack  
being available.  He wasnt persuaded thered been any mis-representation as he thought 
thered been a delay in Mr S pursuing his claim after his initial query. So he didnt  think  Lex 
needed to take any additional action.
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion. He said the email from the dealer clearly 
explained that the car was supposed  to have a smartphone  pack.  He explained that between  
April and October he had been trying  to resolve the issue with the dealer and had only 
contacted Lex in October when the dealership had referred him to them.  He therefore asked 
for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr S so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN07237522Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated  consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  not have been  
misrepresented. If it was, and if the misrepresentation  led Mr S to form an agreement with 
Lex that he otherwise  would  not have, then Id hold Lex responsible and I would  ask them  to 
take some  further  action.
On the evidence provided I am not persuaded there  is sufficient to demonstrate  the car, and 
therefore the finance agreement that funded it, was misrepresented. And, even if Im wrong 
about that I dont  think  theres evidence here that Mr S would not have proceeded with the 
deal if he had been told the car didnt have the requisite smartphone connectivity. 
The invoice for the car doesnt claim the car has a smartphone connectivity pack and Im 
persuaded that, at the time the car was supplied,  one was never available. 
Ive considered the email that Mr S provided from the dealership  (above). This appears to be 
in response to Mr Ss questions about  comparative  prices of other cars. It doesnt  specifically  
refer to the car the dealership were going  to supply to Mr S but I accept that, as a 
smartphone pack wasnt available on the model, it may have been misleading. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that there  is evidence  of a mis-sale  as:
the email did not explicitly refer to the car Mr S was seeking to finance;
the invoice  clarified  the car that was financed didnt have the smartphone  pack and I 
think its reasonable to expect  Mr S to review  that invoice prior to taking receipt of the 
car.
But even if Im wrong about the mis-sale I would have to be persuaded that Mr S would not 
have entered  into the deal if the mis-sale  hadnt  happened  and Im not. I say that because:
I think smartphone connectivity is a relatively  minor  feature and not one that would 
necessarily guide a decision to enter into an agreement for car finance;
if it was of significant importance  I think  there would be more evidence  of that in 
communications between Mr S and the dealership; 
Mr S had clearly provided  details  of other models to the dealership that he was 
considering. The email response  from the dealership mentioned that those vehicles 
were base models that didnt have the smartphone pack and if the pack was so 
important I dont  think Mr S would have been likely  to consider models  without it;
When Mr S initially complained to the dealership in April 2018 the lack of smartphone  
connectivity wasnt the first issue he was raising  with them.  I think it would have likely 
been so if it was of such importance as to prevent him entering into the agreement;
So, overall, Im not persuaded there has been  sufficient evidence  here that the agreement 
was mis-represented  to Mr S and even  if Im wrong  about  that I am not persuaded Mr S 
would not have entered into the agreement had the mis-sale  not happened.
Ref: DRN07237523my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0723752