K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained about a life protection policy sold to him by Bank of Scotland  plc 
trading as Halifax (Halifax) in 2009. Hes said the policy was mis-sold to him as he thought  it 
would run indefinitely  and cover would pay out when he died.
background
In February 2009  Mr J approached Halifax, as his bank of several  years, to talk over his life 
protection arrangements. He was in his mid-sixties and was married. The interest only 
mortgage he was contributing to was in his wifes  name only. Mr Js main  concern was to 
provide protection for his family  home for his children in the event  of his death.
Mr J was sold a level term life policy to cover a period  of nine years  which was until the 
end of the mortgage term. At the end of the nine years, Halifax  wrote to Mr J letting him 
know the policy had come to an end. Mr J says it was only at this point he realised the policy 
wasnt in place until he passed away. And that the money  hed paid into the policy, he wasnt 
getting back, nor would it provide a benefit to his children  when  he died.
He complained to Halifax  but they were  confident  the advice Mr J was given was appropriate 
for his circumstances. They said at the time of the meetings he wouldve  been provided with 
the relevant documentation explaining the characteristics  of the plan. This gave him an 
understanding of how the plan worked  and what hed agreed to take.
When Mr J bought the complaint to our service,  it was assessed by an investigator who 
didnt uphold  the complaint. He agreed  with Halifax that the recommendation given to Mr J to 
take a level term assurance policy was suitable for him, and for broadly  the same  reasons 
Halifax had already given.
Mr J didnt agree with the assessment and so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Js 
complaint and Ill explain my reasons why. 
Halifax has given me a copy of the financial report from the time the policy was sold. This 
shows the adviser completed a full review of Mr Js circumstances  to make a suitable 
recommendation. 
Following the meeting  Mr J was sent a copy of the financial report. I appreciate Mr J says 
this isnt a copy  of the hand written notes.  But Ive no reason to doubt these notes arent an 
accurate reflection of what happened  during the meeting. Halifax noted Mr J didnt want  to 
give any information about his partner or receive  any advice for them. And that he should 
understand the advice might have been different if theyd had known their details.
The report  says the adviser talked through  the various options available to Mr J. Under 
Protection in the event  of death  Family  Protection  it says;
Ref: DRN05858952Your familys standard of living may suffer if you do not provide for them  financially if you die.
You have  chosen  not to take any action now because you feel that your only priority at this 
time was to protect your mortgage debt and did not wish to allocate any funds  addressing 
any need over and above this amount at this present time.
So I think this shows Mr J knew of the other  options available to him, but agreed with the 
recommendation of a term assurance policy as his priority was for his mortgage  to be paid 
off if he died.
The key facts document sent to Mr J after the meeting clearly says the term is for nine years  
and that the plan has no cash-in value at any time. Mr J said that the mortgage had 11 years  
remaining so a term of nine years wasnt sufficient. But Halifax can only rely on the 
information given  to them at the time.  And from looking at the paperwork, Mr J told them  the 
mortgage only had nine years remaining.
Mr J says considering the monthly premiums were  very high, he wouldve expected to have 
the policy run for the duration  of his life, and not end after the nine year term. However, Mr J 
was in his mid-sixties at the time, a smoker and still working past his retirement age. All of 
these factors would  result  in a higher premium. If he was to have taken a policy that covered  
him beyond  the policy term, its likely this would have been more  expensive, and may not 
have been able to provide him with the same  level of cover that would have repaid the 
mortgage in full had he died.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Helen Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0585895