K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mrs G, has complained about the decision  by CIS General Insurance Limited  
to decline her claim under her home  insurance policy for subsidence damage and also about 
the sale of the policy.  The estate is represented by Mr J who, in turn, represented by the late 
Mrs Gs son, Mr G.
background
In 2005, Mrs G moved into a property  which had been bought for her by her son, Mr G. On 
moving in, Mrs G took out a home insurance  policy with CIS. The policy had apparently  been 
recommended by the vendor of the property who worked for CIS.
Shortly after moving in, Mrs G discovered a significant crack to the floor of the property. She 
commissioned a surveyor (which Ill call Y) to inspect the damage.  Y issued a report 
concluding that the problem was caused by improper compaction of the sub-base.  It made  
recommendations for remedial repair. 
 
In 2013, Mrs G noticed damage  to the internal and external walls of the property. She made  
a claim under her policy for subsidence damage. CIS arranged for its surveyor  (which Ill call 
Z) to inspect the damage.  Based  on Zs report, CIS declined the claim. It concluded that 
the vast majority of the damage had occurred before 2005  and had been  identified in Ys 
report. It considered  that the more  recent  cracking  was a result  of the continuation of these 
problems.
Mrs G arranged for another  surveyor (which Ill call W) to inspect the property. Ws report  
concluded that repairs which had been  carried  out following the 2005 survey,  while  not of the 
type recommended by Y, had been successful in preventing further movement of the floor.  In 
light of this, Mrs G was satisfied there  was no need to pursue her claim.
In 2017, Mrs G was no longer living at the property  and Mr G became the policyholder. He 
noticed further cracking had appeared in the property.  He arranged for another  surveyor  
(which Ill call C) to inspect this. C concluded  that the property had suffered movement 
since the 2013 claim. It thought that this might  be due to a failure in the drainage  system and 
recommended that a CCTV  survey be carried out to see whether any remedial work was 
needed. It also recommended that the existing  defective  floor slab be removed to enable  
assessment of the original formation level and to determine what remedial measures, if any, 
might be needed.
Mr G arranged for a drain survey which concluded that there  was a problem with a fractured 
pipe. The drain surveyor recommended  that the entire drainage system should  be renewed.
Mr G then arranged for another surveyor (which Ill call D) to inspect the property. D 
concluded that while some of the damage  to the structure may be attributable to settlement, 
it was more likely that a combination of factors had contributed to the overall distress. 
However, it considered  the main problem was a lack of bracing to the roof structure.
Mr G sent the 2017 reports to CIS with a request that it reconsider the 2013 claim.
CIS arranged for Z to carry out a further inspection  of the property. Z concluded that there 
was no evidence that the property was suffering from either recent or progressive 
subsidence movement.  It considered that the damage to the property was due to one, or a 
Ref: DRN07384342combination, of several factors, including a lack of adequate bracing to the roof structure.  It 
considered the leakage  from the drainage system  to be too remote from the areas of 
concern to be implicated  in the damage. Based on Zs report, CIS maintained  its decision to 
decline the claim.
Mr G, on behalf of his mother, complained to CIS about its decision.  He also complained 
about the fact that its representative who persuaded his mother to take out the policy  was 
also the vendor  of the property. Mr G believed that the vendor had sought to cover  up 
problems with the property.
CIS didnt  uphold the complaint. It said it could  find no evidence that the policy  was mis-sold  
and pointed out that it had no liability concerning  the sale of the property as this was carried 
out by its employee  acting  in his private  capacity. In respect of the claim, it considered the 
evidence suggested  the most likely  cause  of the damage was the lack of bracing to the roof 
structure which had caused defects and distortions  to the property while it had been settling. 
It explained that repairs to the bracing of the roof structure wouldnt be covered under the 
policy because these  were a maintenance issue. It further explained that the policy 
specifically excluded damage caused by settlement  of a property. It acknowledged that there 
was cover for damage  to underground drainage so Mr G, as the new policyholder, might be 
able to make  a claim for this but it said this didnt appear to be the main cause of damage  to 
the property.
Shortly afterwards, Mrs G sadly passed away.
Mr J, on behalf of the estate of Mrs G, referred the complaint to this service.
Our investigator said that under  our rules we were  unable  to consider the complaint about 
the sale of the policy  because this had taken place too long ago. In respect of the claim, he 
considered that CIS had acted fairly in saying there  was no evidence  that the damage to the 
property was due to subsidence.
Mr G, on behalf of his mothers estate, didnt accept the investigators findings.
He maintained that the vendor had sought  to cover up problems with the property at the time 
of sale and had also persuaded his mother to insure the property with CIS. He thought  that 
the vendor had an obligation to warn  Mrs G that CIS wouldnt cover  the existing defects in 
the property which were known to him at the time of sale. Mr G considered  that CIS, as the 
employer of the vendor, was vicariously liable for his actions and failures.
In respect of the claim,  Mr G pointed out that contrary  to Zs and the investigators 
understanding, the survey by Y in 2005  didnt take place until after the property had been 
purchased and so he hadnt known of the existing damage at the time of sale. He pointed  
out that adequate repairs  had nonetheless been  carried out following Ys survey as had 
been confirmed  by W in 2013. He considered  that CIS and the investigator  had placed  too 
much reliance on the views of Z and had ignored the findings  of his own surveys which 
indicated that other  factors,  rather than simply  settlement, were adversely affecting the 
condition of the property in 2013 and since. He found it particularly surprising that Z should  
now be saying the main problem was the roof structure whereas it made no mention of this 
in its 2013 report. He said that he had now sold the property for a fraction  of its purchase 
price and he thought  that it would be reasonable for CIS to make  a goodwill, without 
prejudice, offer to his late mothers estate.
Ref: DRN07384343In view of the ongoing  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
mis-sale of policy
I dont have a free hand to consider all complaints which are referred to this service. The 
rules governing time limits for referring complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service are 
set out in Financial  Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules.
Rule 2.8.2 states:
The Ombudsman  cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service: 
(2) more than:
(a) six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint
The policy was sold in 2005 which was more than six years ago. Furthermore, Mrs G knew  
that the vendor was employed by CIS and became aware of an existing problem in the 
property during that year. She should therefore  reasonably have been aware at that time that 
she had cause for complaint. I therefore consider that in referring this complaint to us on 
behalf of his mothers estate twelve years  after the event, Mr G is outside of the allowed time 
limit.
The DISP  rules allow me to waive the time limit if I consider that the delay in referring the 
complaint is due to exceptional circumstances. However, I can see no such  circumstances 
which apply in this case. Accordingly, I am unable to consider this element of the complaint 
because it is outside my jurisdiction.
decline of claim
The policy will provide cover if damage  occurs which falls under one of the insured perils. 
These perils  include subsidence. However,  the policy states that there is no cover for 
damage caused by normal  settlement or shrinkage, or for damage caused  by faulty 
workmanship, defective design or the use of defective materials.  
When Mrs G made her claim in 2013, CIS declined the claim on the grounds  that the 
problem had originated before 2005  which  was when  the policy was taken out. I consider 
this was reasonable on the basis of the available evidence, including the evidence of Ys 
survey in 2005. Mr G has pointed out that he wasnt aware of the problem with the property 
on purchasing  it and that this only came to light a short time later.  I accept that this was the 
case. However, I dont  consider that this means CIS wasnt entitled to decline the claim on 
these grounds.
Ref: DRN07384344Furthermore, even if the problem had only occurred after 2005, I consider it would have 
been reasonable for CIS to decline the claim.  This is because  the identified  defect giving  rise 
to the problem, namely the nature of the fill material and the fact it wasnt  properly 
compacted, would  fall under the policys exclusion relating to faulty  workmanship and use of 
defective materials.
I note that Mrs G, after arranging the survey  by W, accepted CISs decision.
In 2017, Mr G noted further damage  occurring to the property and has provided further 
surveys. However, I dont  find that these surveys  are persuasive in showing that his late 
mother had an eligible claim, either  in 2013  or later.
The report  by C concluded that the repairs carried  out following  Ys survey in 2005  had been 
ineffective in preventing  further movement in the property. It considered  that the continued 
movement causing  the cracking  might be attributable to a failure  in the drainage  system and 
recommended that this be investigated. The subsequent drain  survey  showed that there  was 
a problem with a fractured pipe. This might have  been the basis for an eligible subsidence 
claim.
However, the report by D concluded that while the broken drainage might have an impact on 
the adjacent areas, this wasnt  responsible  for the major  damage.  The main  cause was the 
lack of bracing  to the roof structure which had resulted in a swaying in the roof members and 
the attached walls. D said settlement issues may have contributed  to the problems with the 
property though further investigation would be needed to establish to what extent this might 
be the case. It mentioned fluctuations in the water  table  as a possible factor in any 
settlement issues.
Having received Mr Gs survey reports,  CIS invited Z to again inspect the property. Z 
concluded that there was no evidence that the property was suffering from either recent or 
progressive subsidence movement. It considered  that the damage to the property was due 
to one, or a combination, of the following factors: historic settlement; lack of adequate 
bracing to the roof structure and/or lack of adequate restraint between the roof structure  and 
gables; thermal and/or moisture  movements; and defective rendering.  It considered  the 
leakage from the drainage  system to be too remote from the areas  of concern to be 
implicated in the damage.
I dont find Zs report to be wholly inconsistent with Ds report. Both place large blame on the 
design of the roof structure  for the damage which is now evident. This appears  to be a defect 
of the type excluded from cover under the policy. Furthermore, both agree  that settlement, 
which is the initial downward movement of a property  when  it is first built,  may have 
contributed to the problems and this is also excluded from cover.  I understand why Mr G is 
surprised the bracing  to the roof wasnt mentioned in Zs 2013 report but I see no reason to 
dispute the view of D and Z in 2017 that this was a main cause of the problems which  now 
existed. Indeed, it is possible that the additional damage that had occurred during the four 
year intermission may have made its cause more easily identifiable.
CIS later went back to Z to ask specifically about  whether fluctuations  in the water  table may 
have placed a part in the damage.  Z said that while such fluctuations  could lead to shrinkage 
in the soil, there was no evidence to suggest that this was the cause of the damage  at 
Mr Gs property. I note that D mentioned this as a possible factor  but it was in tentative terms 
Ref: DRN07384345and so I dont  consider  it had been  reasonably shown that this had led to damage at the 
property.
In summary,  it seems  that Mr G unfortunately purchased a property with existing problems 
and defects. The damage resulting from these has become more and more  evident over 
time but Im satisfied it was fair for CIS to decline the claim in 2013 on the grounds that no 
insured peril was responsible and to maintain  this decision when it reviewed the matter in 
2017. In view of this, I cant reasonably ask CIS to make a goodwill payment to Mrs Gs 
estate, as Mr G has asked.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G, on behalf of 
Mr J, who is in turn acting on behalf  of the estate  of Mrs G, to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 November 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0738434