K821x#15Complaint
Mr D has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly  continued 
applying increasing  amounts  of charges to his overdraft even when it ought to have seen his 
account was in difficulty.
Background
One of our investigators  looked at this complaint and thought  Halifax  should have realised 
that Mr Ds overdraft had become  unsustainable  for him in August 2015  and so it needed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Ds overdraft from this point. 
Halifax responded and referred to settling the complaint in accordance  with the investigators 
view. However, after it was questioned on how it arrived  at the figure of compensation paid 
to Mr D, it later said that it only agreed  to refund the fees paid between August  2015 and 
November 2017.  As Mr D didnt accept  Halifaxs  alternative offer of settlement the case  was 
passed to an ombudsman for review.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
As the parties are in agreement that the overdraft had become unsustainable for Mr D by 
August 2015 and so Halifax ought  to have taken action at this stage, I dont need to decide  if 
and when Halifax ought reasonably to have realised Mr D was experiencing financial 
difficulty. I simply need to decide  whether what it has agreed  to do to put things right is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think  that Halifax  
do need to do more to put things right for Mr D. Ill explain why I think this is the case.
Firstly, its disappointing Halifax provided  such an unclear initial  response  to our investigator. 
The response refers  to November 2017   without providing any reasoning  as to why Mr Ds 
refund should  only be to this point  while also referring to accepting  her view and proposal. I 
say this while also mindful that shed already addressed why Mr Ds reluctance for his 
account to be passed to collections in November 2017 didnt make  a difference, in earlier  
correspondence.
In any event, Ive also considered  Halifaxs  argument for wanting to cap Mr Ds refund of 
fees to November 2017. And Im simply  not persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable 
to do so. It seems to me that Halifax appears  to be arguing that it should  be entitled to keep 
the charges added from November 2017  onwards because even though  the overdraft was 
unsustainable for Mr D, he didnt agree to it being passed to collections. But Halifax is 
ignoring its obligation to take corrective action on a facility  even if a customer  doesnt want  
an account going to collections and any associated negative credit file information   in 
circumstances where  it is unsustainable. I dont think  continuing to add interest, fees and 
charges to an overdraft  which is already unaffordable is treating a customer  with forbearance 
and due consideration or treating that customer  fairly.
So having  carefully thought about  everything, Im satisfied  that Halifax didnt react  to the 
discussions it had with Mr D in November  2017  appropriately and this means  that it also 
needs to refund the fees it charged  from this date. 
Ref: DRN05279062Fair compensation  what  Halifax needs  to do to put things right for Mr D.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ds overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied  
to it from August 2015 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact  Mr D to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ds credit 
file, it should backdate  this to August 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr D along with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information  from Mr Ds credit file. 
Halifax can deduct the compensation it has already paid Mr D from what it now needs to pay 
him as a result of this decision.  In other  words,  it doesnt need to refund any interest, fees 
and charges which it has already refunded Mr D.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Mr D a certificate showing  how much  tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, upholding Mr Ds complaint. Bank  of Scotland  plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0527906