K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy ERGO  Reiseversicherung AG (ERGO) hasnt paid their claim in 
full. 
background 
Mr and Mrs G held an annual multi trip travel  insurance policy  with ERGO. Theyd booked a 
cruise for March 2018, but unfortunately had to cancel as Mrs G needed surgery and follow 
up treatment for cancer.  
Mr G had made ERGO aware of Mrs Gs change in health in January  2018. He was told 
ERGO couldnt update the policy at that point and he should call back  later about cancelling  
the cruise, once he knew if they were likely to travel. Mr and Mrs G cancelled  the cruise  in 
February 2018 when  further details of the treatment Mrs G needed were known. 
Mr G submitted a claim form in February 2018.  ERGO only agreed to pay 50% of the claim 
as it said Mr and Mrs G wouldve known theyd be unlikely to travel in December 2017   
when Mrs G was first diagnosed. So it paid the claim based on the cruise  being cancelled  on 
that date. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and asked the business  to reconsider the claim 
based on the information Mr G had given  their agent in January 2018. At this point, based on 
the criteria for declaring changes in health,  ERGO shouldve told Mr G he had the option to 
cancel his holiday and it wouldve paid all of his costs in full. 
Based on this, ERGO agreed  to meet  the claim in full. Our investigator thought ERGO 
should pay Mr and Mrs G £100 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset theyd been 
caused by the claim being incorrectly declined.
While Mr and Mrs G were happy the claim was now being paid, they felt they should  receive  
£250 compensation. They pointed  out it was a very worrying  time,  Mrs G was receiving  
ongoing treatment  and caused them further stress  and anxiety.
The complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ERGO has now agreed to meet the claim in full and pay interest on the outstanding amount, 
which I think is reasonable. And, I agree  with the investigator that an award of compensation 
is due. 
While ERGO  has agreed to pay Mr and Mrs D £100  for the impact  its mistake had, its clear 
Mr and Mrs G dont feel this adequately reflects the experience theyve had. So, whats  left 
for me to decide is the level of compensation which should be paid.   
Mr G, on behalf of them both, has said it was already a worrying  time for them.  Mrs G was 
undergoing intense cycles  of chemotherapy and this caused them a great deal of stress and 
anxiety during that process. 
Ref: DRN04104582In reaching a decision about  fair compensation for Mr and Mrs G, I have considered  all of the 
circumstances, including  Mrs Gs health problems and additional worry the initial  claim 
decision would have  caused them.
I am however also mindful of the fact ERGO dealt with the original claim in a timely manner. 
And, it has acknowledged the delay and paid interest on the full payment. 
Its difficult to put a value  on the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs G experienced. Had ERGO 
agreed to meet the claim earlier,  this situation would have been avoided. Overall,  however, 
having considered all of the circumstances and while  I have natural sympathy with the 
experience Mr and Mrs G have been through, Im satisfied the award  of £100 recommended  
by the investigator  is fair.
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
ERGO Reiseversicherung  AG has offered to pay the claim in full and pay interest  at 8% 
simple per year on any outstanding amount  until settlement. Its my decision this is 
reasonable in circumstances  of this case.1 
I require ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to also pay £100 compensation to Mr and Mrs G. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 September 2019.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
1 If ERGO Reiseversicherung AG considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much its taken off. It should  also give 
them a certificate.
Ref: DRN0410458