K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Close Brothers  Limited trading as Close  Brothers Motor Finance has 
terminated his finance agreement and is seeking  to repossess his vehicle after he fell into 
arrears. He wants to pay the arrears  and have the agreement reinstated.
background
Mr C told us he acquired the vehicle in late 2017. He says that due to health issues  he fell 
behind with payments.  When  CBMF  terminated  the agreement  Mr C states that he was only 
two months in arrears  and had offered to repay these.  But he says that CBMF refused this 
request and has threatened to repossess the vehicle which  he says he needs  for work.
CBMF told us it had terminated the agreement as it felt it was in Mr Cs best interests. It said 
it had tried to assist Mr C but hed not followed payments plans. And it had taken  the 
decision to take the customer out of the vehicle to avoid any further financial impact. It said 
that Mr C has hidden  the vehicle to prevent it from being repossessed. So its now taking 
legal steps to recover its funds.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He felt that CBMF had 
acted within  its rights in terminating  the agreement and seeking  repossession  of the vehicle. 
Mr C didnt agree with this outcome and said hed felt threatened when CBMF had told him 
the police  might become involved if he didnt allow the vehicle to be repossessed. As its not 
been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make  the final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr C has experienced  financial difficulties.  And I accept that this can be a 
difficult situation to handle.
Where a business is notified a customer is in financial  difficulty  wed expect  the business to 
treat the customer fairly. And to try and assist the customer  to work through  the problem. 
How a business does  this varies with each  individuals circumstances. But it might include 
temporarily accepting  less than contractual payments; waiving charges for late payments; or 
agreeing a payment arrangement whereby arrears can be repaid over a period of time.
Mr C signed the conditional sale agreement in October 2017.  Ive seen the contact notes  
and account statements.  These show that difficulties with payments appeared to start in 
January 2018  when  a direct debit failed.  From then on until CBMF terminated  the agreement  
in February 2019  the account  statement is punctuated with failed direct debits and/ or late 
payments. Ive seen  that CBMF sent letters to Mr C advising of these  arrears  and the 
charges that had been incurred. I also see that on some occasions  charges were later 
cancelled.
A pattern of late payments developed  throughout 2018. And towards the end of that year 
payments were missed  altogether in November and December. These missed payments  
seemingly coincided with a period when Mr C was receiving hospital treatment.
Ref: DRN03981402Although Mr C made a payment in early January 2019 the account remained two months in 
arrears. And I can see it was agreed  that he would contact CBMF  on or before 
29 January 2019  to discuss  this. I note the next contractual payment was also due to be paid 
on this date. In the relevant contact note the call handler advised that as no direct debit was 
in place the vehicle was at risk of repossession.
When Mr C didnt call back  by the agreed date the notes  record that a decision was taken  to 
terminate the agreement.  It was felt by CBMF  that fees were only going  to increase his 
liability still further. 
After the agreement was terminated on 6 February  2019 theres been further contact 
between Mr C and CBMF. And on 13 February 2019  he offered to bring the account up to 
date. But that offer didnt include any additional fees.  Since  then Mr C has not made any 
payments and the latest notice of arrears letter Ive seen dated December 2019 shows more 
than £7,400 is outstanding.
I accept that Mr C didnt want the agreement to be terminated. But its clear  that he was 
struggling to make repayments on time even before he went into hospital.  And when he 
missed payments in November and December it seemed probable  that arrears would only 
begin to increase. When the next scheduled  payment failed  on 29 January  2019 - and Mr C 
didnt make contact as previously promised  - CBMF took the decision to terminate the 
agreement. In the circumstances  I think that was fair and reasonable. Wed  normally expect 
a business to default an account if there were arrears of between three and six months.
In summary,  I think that CBMF showed forbearance  and tried to assist  Mr C when he faced  
financial difficulty. But such forbearance  is not open  ended. Even if the consumer wishes to 
keep an agreement open its not in their interests that arrears and charges are allowed to 
continually accumulate. 
Whilst it doesnt affect my final decision the fact that Mr C hasnt made  any payments since 
January 2019  does  lend support  to the view that he would  in any event have found  it difficult 
to sustainably maintain  contractual  payments and repay arrears.
I find that CBMF has dealt with this complaint  fairly and I shant be asking it to do anything  
else. Accordingly, Im not upholding  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0398140