K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) is asking him to 
pay for three  replacement  tyres after returning a car at the end of a hire purchase  
agreement. 
background
VWFS supplied  Mr G with a second-hand car under a hire purchase agreement. When Mr G 
returned the car it was inspected and deemed to have damage  in excess  of fair wear and 
tear. This included  four scratched wheels,  three  tyres with cuts in the sides of them and a 
missing alloy wheel key. Mr G was asked to pay these to be refurbished/replaced at a cost of 
£1,027.04.
Mr G agreed to pay for the four scratched wheels to be refurbished. But he didnt think  he 
should have to pay for three replacement tyres. This was because they were  roadworthy, 
and two of them were only a few months  old. So he didnt think they needed replacing. And 
he didnt think he should have to pay for the alloy wheel key because  it wasnt  missing. 
VWFS looked into the matter and accepted the alloy wheel key wasnt missing,  so it 
removed the charge  for that. But it maintained  that the three tyres had unacceptable 
cosmetic damage and so it was fair for it to charge Mr G for replacement tyres. Mr G didnt 
think this was fair so he brought the complaint to our service.  
The investigator concluded, in summary, that the three tyres had minor  cosmetic  damage.  
But he wasnt persuaded this would have  affected the cars resale value,  meaning  he didnt 
think the damage had caused VWFS to lose out. He recommended that VWFS stop asking 
Mr G to pay for replacement tyres  and to remove any adverse information related to this 
dispute from Mr Gs credit  file.
Mr G accepted this in resolution of the complaint. VWFS didnt. It said the relevant guidelines 
said there should be no damage  to the sides of the tyres so it was entitled  to charge for 
replacements. The complaint was passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Under the hire purchase agreement, which Mr G agreed to, VWFS is entitled to charge him 
for damage  which is beyond fair wear and tear. The reason for this is that a car with a higher  
level of damage will likely  have a lower  resale  value than a car with a lower  level of damage.  
It wouldnt be fair for VWFS  to lose our financially because its car hasnt  been  maintained  as 
agreed in the contract it has with Mr G. 
The British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA) is a trade body for the vehicle 
rental and leasing  sector. The guidance  it issues highlights damage  which  would be 
considered more than fair wear and tear on return of a vehicle.  For tyres  it says they must 
meet minimum legal requirements  and there  must  be no damage  to the sidewalls  or the 
tread. I have  taken this guidance into account,  but I need to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN04601082Photos of the tyres  show there are cuts in all three of them.  Mr G doesnt dispute  this. I think 
the cuts count as damage to the sidewalls  of the tyres. But from the photos in the report they 
appear to be small cuts which are hardly visible unless seen close up. It hasnt  been  
suggested that this meant the tyres needed  replacing for legal or safety reasons.  And I note 
that VWFS hasnt provided  evidence to show it replaced the tyres before selling the car on 
either. Overall, it seems  the tyres  were  roadworthy. 
I acknowledge that even if they were  not illegal, there is cosmetic damage  on the sides  of 
the tyres.  However, I have also considered the nature  of the damage alongside normally  
expected wear and tear commensurate  with the age and mileage  of the vehicle. Tyres 
inevitably need replacing periodically and a buyer  is unlikely to expect new tyres  on a used 
car. So I think its unlikely  the condition of the tyres in this particular case would impact the 
cars resale  value beyond  what  would normally be expected for a model of the same age 
and mileage. And I note that VWFS  hasnt shown this to be the case either. 
As Ive said,  it wouldnt be fair for VWFS to lose out financially  because  the car wasnt 
maintained as it should have been.  But for the reasons given I dont think that is the case  
here so I dont think its fair or reasonable for it to ask Mr G to pay for three replacement 
tyres. I also dont think its fair for VWFS  to record any adverse information about this dispute 
with the credit reference agencies. 
Im aware that VWFS took money  from Mr Gs bank account when it shouldnt  have.  This 
money was later returned to him and VWFS has offered  him £50 (in total)  to compensate  
him for this. I think this is fair compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) Limited to:
-not charge  Mr G for the cost of replacing  the three tyres (£561.87+VAT);
-remove any adverse information  from Mr Gs credit file related to this dispute; and 
-pay Mr G £50 compensation (in total). Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited  
may deduct this from what  Mr G may still owe for the four scratched wheels.
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  must pay the compensation within  28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.  
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0460108