K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) was 
irresponsible to agree  to lend to him.
Mr B wants  Sunny  to refund the interest  and charges that he paid on the loans.
Background
Mr B took out 30 instalment loans with Sunny between  August 2016 and August 2018. Mr B 
says he was caught in a cycle of needing to borrow more money to keep up with his loan 
repayments. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Bs complaint be upheld in part. The adjudicator  
thought that Sunny shouldnt have  agreed loans six to 30. He recommended that Sunny 
refund the interest and charges that Mr B had paid on the affected loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny remove loans six onwards entirely from Mr Bs 
credit file. 
Sunny disagreed with some of the adjudicators view. It didnt agree that a pattern of reliance 
had emerged  by loan six. Sunny said that it carried  out affordability checks  that indicated  
that Mr B could afford  each loan.
Sunny agreed  that by loan 20, it was possible that Mr B may have become reliant on the 
loans so it offered  to put things right for loans  20 to 30.
Mr B wasnt  willing to accept Sunnys offer so the complaint has come  to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN03282662the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr B could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion about loans one to five. Because  of this, I 
dont think there is any ongoing  dispute  about these loans. So I wont  be making a decision 
about this lending. But as the loans were part of the borrowing relationship  that Mr B had 
with Sunny, I will take them in to account  when considering his other loans.
loans 20 to 30
Sunny has already agreed to put things right for loans 20 to 30. So I will instead focus on the 
loans that remain  in dispute  six to 19.
loans six to 19
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr B with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have  realised that it shouldnt 
have given Mr B any more loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
six. I say this because  the overall  pattern of Mr Bs borrowing suggested that hed become 
persistently reliant  on short term loans.
Loan six was the sixth loan that Mr B had taken out in just over eight months.  And when     
Mr B took out loan six, his previous loan was still outstanding. 
Ref: DRN03282663Each of the loans  that Mr B took out were repayable in instalments. But Mr B regularly repaid 
his loans off much earlier than planned and then went on to borrow  again  often a matter of 
days or weeks. I think that this pattern of frequent borrowing and repaying loans early was 
an indication  that Mr Bs finances  were under significant pressure. 
Mr B often  borrowed  multiple times within the same  month. For example in August 2017   
Mr B borrowed a total of £500 over three separate loans. Regardless of the fact that Mr B 
could have chosen to take out fewer  but larger loans, I consider this pattern of borrowing 
added to the picture of Mr B having  problems managing his money.  Particularly when Sunny 
was also aware from its credit checks that Mr B also borrowed  from other  short term lenders. 
Mr B continued to take new lending that overlapped with a previous loan. So Sunny should 
have realised that it was more likely  than not Mr B was reliant on short term lending and 
needed to borrow  further to fill the hole repaying  his previous loans was leaving in his 
finances. I dont  consider  that this was sustainable  for Mr B.
Although the amount that Mr B was borrowing fluctuated, there wasnt  any evidence of a 
consistent reduction in the amount that he owed to Sunny. Mr B wasnt making  any real 
inroads into what he owed Sunny and his indebtedness was being prolonged. This meant 
that Mr B had been paying large  amounts of interest to, in effect;  service  a debt to Sunny 
over a long period.
I think that Mr B lost out because Sunny continued  to lend money  from loan six onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed Sunny money was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about loans six to 30. 
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr B paid on loans six to 30;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about loans 
six to 30 is negative. So all entries about loans six to 30 should be removed from Mr Bs 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN03282664My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0328266