K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (Halifax) applied  the wrong exchange rate to a 
foreign currency purchase and gave poor customer service.
background
Ms C made a purchase  in Spain in July 2018  using her Halifax credit  card.  She has provided  
a receipt from the retailer showing  that she was charged a particular  amount  in euros. But 
when she saw her Halifax  credit card statement, shed been  charged an amount in pounds 
that meant  shed been charged a worse exchange  rate than her other purchases that day.
Ms C complained to Halifax  and asked the bank  to refund her the difference between what 
shed been charged and the exchange rate used  for her other  transactions.  Halifax  issued a 
final response letter to the complaint in August 2018 that said it hadnt  upheld her complaint  
because the payment had been  charged  to her account in pounds by the retailer. 
Ms C asked Halifax to reply to her complaint by email because  she was still abroad.  Halifax 
says it tried to call her to discuss her complaint  but couldnt get through, so sent her a letter  - 
saying because it doesnt have secure email messaging. Ms C didnt  see the banks letter  for 
some time because she was away and complains that this was poor customer service.
Ms C brought her complaint to our service  for an independent view. An adjudicator 
considered her complaint but didnt  uphold it because they said Halifax  hadnt  applied the 
exchange rate to the purchase  so couldnt  control the rate. They thought  Halifax  had made 
reasonable efforts to contact Ms C so didnt suggest compensation for customer  service. 
Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators view because  she thinks  its unreasonable for a 
different amount to be charged to her bank account than shed expected.  She asked for an 
ombudsman decision and her complaint  was referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is, what I consider is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available evidence  
and the wider circumstances.
Ms Cs receipt from the retailer shows the amount payable  in euros. It isnt a credit  card 
receipt so it doesnt  include  any details of what was charged to her Halifax card  so theres  
nothing to prove the retailer  changed  the rate or currency after she left the store.
But, her credit card statement shows the amount was charged  to her card in pounds, not 
euros. This means that unlike the other transactions she made  that day, this amount had 
been converted before it was applied to her card. Ms C is convinced she didnt  agree  to be 
charged in pounds but she authorised the payment with her PIN. 
Ref: DRN07980122The evidence here is inconclusive but on balance, I think the most likely explanation  is that 
the retailer approved  the currency conversion  on her behalf when processing  the payment 
and before Ms C entered her PIN  so she authorised the payment in pounds without 
realising. I understand  why Ms C is unhappy about this, but I dont find that Halifax  made  a 
mistake here because it didnt convert the payment and had no control over the exchange 
rate used.
Ms C thinks  its unfair that she can be charged  a different amount here but not be 
compensated. I sympathise with her but having  considered the complaint I dont think  it 
would be fair to tell Halifax to compensate  her when I dont think it made a mistake  here. Its 
important to say that the actions of the retailer arent  something  this service can consider 
either. I can only look at what Halifax has done  and here, I dont think it made a mistake  or 
was responsible for what Ms C is unhappy  with.
Ive considered if Halifax made any mistakes after Ms C told it what happened.  But I can see 
from its system  records that Halifax tried to call her. Halifax also sent her a text message 
saying that it would try to call her and gave a phone  number  she could call. I know Ms C 
says she didnt receive the message  or call and I dont doubt  her - but Halifaxs  records  
show it tried to contact her in an appropriate way. It was only after Halifax failed to reach  
Ms C by phone that it sent her a letter.  
Halifax has explained that it doesnt have  an email messaging system to contact customers 
 and I think it would be unreasonable  of me to find that Halifax  at fault for this because it 
doesnt tell its customers it can communicate by email. Because Im satisfied that Halifax 
took reasonable efforts to contact Ms C as shed asked, and responded to her complaint 
promptly, even if it was by letter, I dont uphold this aspect of Ms Cs complaint either.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0798012