K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that NRAM Limited told him for several years that it had a court  Decree for 
possession of his house when it had not. He would  like to be compensated for the stress this 
has caused.
background 
Mr H has been in arrears on his mortgage.  Some years ago MRAM issued court  
proceedings to repossess his home. In November 2013 NRAM and Mr H came to an 
arrangement to repay the arrears  and the case was dismissed. Mr H says that NRAM on 
multiple occasions has threatened to enforce a county court decree although the case  was 
dismissed. These threats  have caused  him stress and stress related illnesses and he has 
struggled to hold down a job or a college course.  His family has suffered because  of him 
having to devote his income to servicing the mortgage rather  than anything  else.
NRAM accepted  that it gave  Mr H incorrect information on several occasions that it had a 
decree for possession  of his property and offered  compensation of £250 for the distress 
caused. Our adjudicator felt that Mr H was suffering from difficult personal circumstances 
which werent helped  by being  incorrectly told about  the possibility of eviction because  of this 
misinformation. Our adjudicator thought that NRAM should  increase the level of 
compensation to £600. Mr H wasnt happy with the level of compensation suggested and 
asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately for Mr H he has been  in financial difficulties for some  time and been in arrears  
in his mortgage. I see in the last year his mother has sadly died and hes been diagnosed 
with type 2 diabetes. I also see that he has been trying to pay off his mortgage and been in 
close contact with NRAM about payment arrangements.  But he hasnt been able to meet all 
the arrangements.
I see that in a phone call in February  2018, NRAM told Mr H that it held a decree against him 
for possession of his property dated  14 May 2012  which Mr H queried and NRAM confirmed 
there was and directed him to its solicitors. In fact that wasn't the case. Ive looked through  
the contact notes and I see that there  is a reference to this decree on several occasions so I 
must assume as Mr H says that it was referred to on many occasions  in his conversations 
with NRAM staff. I accept that this must  have been disturbing for Mr H.
But the real problem for Mr H and his family  are their financial difficulties which have meant  
that he has been in continual contact  with NRAM over these past years. The failure to pay 
off the mortgage  arrears  and the missed  payment arrangements have meant that Mr H and 
his family  have to live with the possibility that NRAM may take action to repossess their 
home. I can understand that NRAM telling them wrongly that it already had a decree was 
unpleasant but Mr H and his family have for a long time lived under the cloud of a potential  
eviction. I also note that NRAMs belief that it had a court  order didnt meant that it didnt 
Ref: DRN06191802listen to Mr H and was still prepared  to agree several arrangements to pay which  
unfortunately Mr H couldnt maintain.
NRAM shouldnt have  told Mr H that it had obtained a decree when it hadnt. But as our 
adjudicator has explained  we are not a regulator and our role isnt to punish  NRAM but to 
fairly compensate Mr H. Clearly Mr H was under a lot of stress but mainly from his financial 
difficulties. In those  circumstances I agree with our adjudicator  that £600 is fair 
compensation for this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order NRAM Limited to pay Mr H £600.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0619180