K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that it took The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(Royal London) over a year to arrange  for him to receive his first pension  annuity payment.
background
In September  2017 Mr K wrote to Royal London about his pension plan. He said he planned 
to retire and asked for a quote  for a lifetime  annuity.
Throughout late 2017 Mr K and Royal  London  corresponded by letter about the pension 
plan. During this correspondence,  Royal London  asked Mr K to call its annuity bureau. 
But Mr K explained  that he had a hearing impairment, and so he was unable to call. He also 
didnt want to ask a family member to facilitate the call.
Royal London said it sent Mr K a letter  containing his annuity  quotes in January 2018.  
But Mr K said that he didnt receive  this letter and noted Royal  London had used an incorrect 
post code.
Royal London re-sent the letter the following month.  It says Mr K didnt respond to its letter 
about choosing  his annuity  option  until August 2018.
In response to Mr Ks letter sent in August 2018,  Royal London again asked him to call the 
annuity bureau. Mr K wasnt happy  with this response, as hed already told Royal London he 
wasnt able to communicate in that way. After further  correspondence Royal  London sent 
Mr K the correct forms to fill in to receive  his pension and he received his first annuity 
payment in November  2018.  
Mr K complained to Royal London due to the delays in receiving his first annuity  payment, 
he felt it shouldnt have  taken over a year from sending his first letter  to receiving  his first 
payment. 
In response Royal  London acknowledged there  had been a delay in Mr K receiving  his first 
payment, as it hadnt acted on the letter he sent in August 2018 as it should have done. 
But Royal London  felt that, as they had given Mr K quotes in April 2018  which  Mr K didnt 
respond to until August  2018, they werent responsible  for all of the delays Mr K had faced. 
Royal London offered to pay Mr K three  months  worth of missed income payments for the 
period between August and October 2018  in addition to £500 compensation it previously 
offered Mr K for poor service it had given.
Mr K remained unhappy  with Royal Londons  response and so brought  his complaint to us. 
Our investigator felt that Royal Londons actions  led to a three-month delay in Mr K receiving 
his first annuity payment. So, he felt that Royal Londons offer to pay Mr K an additional 
three months worth of annuity  payments was fair. 
Mr K disagreed with the investigators assessment, he said he sent instructions to Royal  
London on several other occasions asking for the correct forms to fill out, but it still took over 
a year to receive his first payment. So, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN06782472my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K provided examples  of earlier complaints he raised with Royal  London that its already 
dealt with. Id like to reassure Mr K that Ive looked at everything he provided.  But, as weve 
already explained to Mr K, where a business  has responded to a complaint with a final 
response letter - explaining the option  to refer the complaint to us within  6 months   we cant  
consider it after 6 months has passed  without the business consenting. So, in the interests  of 
fairness, I havent commented on the other complaints in this decision. 
The issue  to determine  in this decision is whether Royal London unreasonably delayed 
setting up Mr Ks pension annuity payments.
Ive seen there was a lot of correspondence  between Mr K and Royal  London in late 2017 
and early 2018. And Mr K feels during that time he made it clear to Royal London the way in 
which he wanted to claim his pension  as a lifetime annuity. However, Mr K had a number 
of options regarding his annuity,  including the option to take a cash free lump sum and 
guaranteeing the payments for five years.
Having reviewed Mr Ks letters from late 2017, Im not persuaded Mr K clearly  stated  exactly  
which option of annuity hed chosen  to take,  particularly  as he hadnt  been given the different 
annuity quotes at that time.  Choosing  an annuity was a very important decision, as it would 
affect Mr Ks income for the rest of his life. So, it was reasonable for Royal  London to ensure 
Mr K was provided with clear information  on his choices before it actioned  his requests.
I think it was clear, in late 2017,  that Royal London  needed to adjust  its usual processes due 
to Mr Ks hearing impairment. I say this because  Royal London was unable to provide face 
to face meetings and usually asked its clients to phone an annuity bureau to discuss  the 
options available.  But Mr K said that he couldnt call the annuity bureau and he didnt want to 
ask a family  member to facilitate the conversation.  Royal  London seem to accept this in its 
letter dated  19 January 2018  when it says We therefore took this opportunity to review  our 
AB process and the result is that we have summarised the first part of the process in writing 
for you. Royal London also said that a note was added to Mr Ks file to notify  a named 
person when Mr K made contact, which I think was reasonable. 
Mr K says he didnt receive  the letters Royal London sent in January 2018 which contained 
his annuity quotes. Whilst Im unable to determine whether or not Mr K received these letters  
in January, its clear  that he did receive  copies  of the letters in February, as he 
acknowledges this in one of his letters to Royal  London. But I dont think whether  Mr K 
received the quotes in January or February  made a material difference to the delay  in setting 
up Mr Ks annuity payments. I say this because Mr K responded to the quotes in March  2018 
but still hadnt selected an annuity basis in line with the terms of his pension  policy.
In the letter  Mr K sent Royal  London  in March 2018,  amongst other  things, Mr K asked for 3) 
Five years guarantee period ( according  to T&C it should be 5 years, without the reduction  of 
the annuity) and 5) 100 % Guaranteed element to be applied to the whole plan value ( as 
per original T&C of the Plan). When Royal London  responded to this letter it said it couldnt  
guarantee the annuity payments for five years without reducing the annuity. Royal London  
also explained why not all of Mr Ks policy had a guaranteed annuity rate. So, although Mr K 
feels he told Royal London in March 2018 the basis for his annuity to be paid, I think  it was 
Ref: DRN06782473reasonable for Royal London not to act on his request. Thats  because  Mr K was asking for 
something his policy  didnt allow for and wasnt in line with the information and quotes  hed 
already been given.    
I havent seen  any further evidence Mr K confirmed the annuity  basis  he wished  to select  
until he wrote to Royal London in August 2018.  Mr K noted in the letter  that hed been 
unable to contact  Royal London as he had been unwell. Mr K gave a clear instruction of the 
annuity basis hed chosen, which was on a basis available to him  a lifetime pension  
including the guaranteed annuity rate. In the letter Mr K also asked for the appropriate forms 
to complete.
Im very sorry to hear that Mr K was unwell during that period. But it wouldnt be fair for me to 
say Royal  London  should have acted  earlier,  as it hadnt received clear instructions from 
Mr K as to which annuity option he was choosing until that point. 
Royal London acknowledged that when it received  Mr Ks letter in August 2018, it failed to 
review Mr Ks previous  correspondence in which hed already told Royal  London about  his 
hearing impairment and the note it had on its system. Instead, it again  asked  him to call the 
Annuity Bureau.  This in turn lead to further  conversations back and forth, before Mr K finally  
received his first annuity payment in November 2018. 
I appreciate it must have  been very frustrating for Mr K to be asked once again to call the 
annuity bureau, having already explained why that wasnt possible.  And I think this oversight 
by Royal  London  led to a delay in Mr K receiving his first annuity payment.
My role in cases like these is to try to put Mr K back into the position he would have  been  in 
had Royal  London  not caused a delay. When Ive considered what should  have happened in 
this case, I think Royal  London should have processed Mr Ks request when it received his 
letter in August 2018. But instead it took until November to pay Mr K his first annuity 
payment. 
Royal London has offered to pay Mr K three  months worth of annuity payments to cover  the 
August, September and October payments he missed because it didnt act sooner. But I 
dont think this goes  far enough. I say this because  Royal London hadnt considered if the 
annuity had been purchased three months  earlier, whether it would have had the same  
value. It also hadnt added any interest  to the payments,  despite  Mr K having  been deprived 
of the money  for several months. 
Royal London have  now calculated that the annuity would have been £7.46 per annum more 
had it processed Mr Ks request when receiving his letter on 7 August 2018. Royal  London 
offered to pay Mr K a lump sum of £149.20. This was calculated  as the equivalent of 20 
years worth  of the additional £7.46 Mr K was likely to received had the annuity been  
processed earlier. As it is a small sum, especially if it was to be paid monthly  along  with 
Mr Ks current annuity payments, I dont find it unreasonable for Royal  London to offer to 
settle this matter as a lump sum. The administration  costs are likely  to be disproportionately  
high if Royal  London  were to write a new annuity for such a small sum. It is also likely to be 
in Mr Ks interest to have  this money paid as a lump  sum now, instead of gradually  over his 
lifetime. So, I think  Royal  Londons  offer is fair. 
Royal London have  also now offered  to pay 8% simple interest on the three  additional 
annuity payments  of £348.29. This is in line with our usual approach to compensate Mr K for 
Ref: DRN06782474being deprived of his annuity payments for three months. So, I think  Royal Londons offer of 
8% simple  interest on the payments is fair.
Mr K had an opportunity  to comment on Royal Londons  most  recent  offer of a lump sum and 
interest on the payments. However,  Mr K maintained that Royal  London should have started 
his annuity in November 2017, as he had told them the basis on which  he wanted to proceed  
then. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr K but as I have already said,  Im satisfied 
that Royal London were responsible for a three month delay in Mr K receiving his annuity  
payments for the reasons Ive already explained.  And so, I think Royal  Londons most recent 
offer to compensate Mr K for the three  missed  payments and additional annuity is fair. 
Im also aware Royal London  again  offered to pay Mr K £500  compensation in relation to the 
previous complaints he made. That falls outside  the scope of the complaint that Im deciding, 
so I dont intend to comment  further. But it might be something that Mr K wishes  to discuss 
with Royal  London.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that The Royal  London Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited should pay Mr K;
Three additional annuity payments of £348.29 for the months  of August, September  
and October 2018.*
8% simple interest on the additional  annuity  payments from the date they were due to 
be paid until the date of settlement.*
£149.20 as a lump  sum to compensate the difference in annuity Mr K is receiving.
*If The Royal London Mutual  Insurance Society Limited considers it should deduct 
income tax from either the annuity payments or 8% interest element of my award it 
may do so, but should give Mr K the necessary certificate of the tax paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0678247