K820x#14Complaint
Miss L is unhappy because Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS) has 
supplied her with a car which  she believes  wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Miss Ls partner is the main driver  of the car but as she took out the hire purchase 
agreement, I will refer to her throughout this decision.
Background
In March 2018, Miss L acquired a brand-new  car which she financed  through a 48 month 
hire purchase agreement with VWFS. The cash price of the car was over £ £66,000. The car 
was first registered in March 2018.  The agreement said the car hadnt travelled any miles but 
Miss L disputed this. 
Miss L said shes returned to the dealership on several occasions  because there were a 
number of issues with the car, which she reported  as follows:
1.Car delivered with a dent on the passenger door;
2.Faulty window;
3.Multimedia interface (MMI) and virtual cockpit working intermittently;  
4.Noises coming from the brakes;
5.Tyres needed to be replaced;
6.Fraying seatbelt; and
7.Night light remains on.
As a result, in October 2018 the dealership  replaced the window unit and paid her £250  
compensation. During this same time, the brakes were found  to be significantly  worn so as a 
gesture of goodwill, they replaced the rear brake  pads and de-glazed the front and rear 
brake discs.  In January 2019, the MMI control unit was also replaced. 
In early 2019, Miss L settled the finance agreement and purchased the car. She said she 
had done so in the hope the outstanding  problems  would  be resolved but as this didnt 
happen she complained. VWFS  responded that as Miss L had complained  more  than six 
months after the car had been  supplied,  it was reasonable to expect it may start to develop 
issues but this didnt mean the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Unhappy with their response, the complaint was referred  to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He believed  VWFS  had dealt with the 
complaint fairly and the repairs had rectified the relevant issues.  He said given the amount of 
mileage covered, the outstanding problem  concerning the brakes was down to general  wear 
and tear. Overall he concluded the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Miss L disagreed. She said despite  the repairs, she was still experiencing problems with the 
brakes, the dent, the seatbelt  and more recently  there were problems with the air 
conditioning unit. She said she had spent  money to rectify some  of the issues and VWFS 
should compensate  her for this and the inconvenience caused. 
In September  2020, I issued a provisional  decision and said:
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement   so I can consider a 
complaint relating to it. VWFS is the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and 
is responsible for a complaint about  the supply and the quality of Miss Ls car.
Ref: DRN02737772The Consumer Rights Act 2015  is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods,  there  is an implied term that the quality of the goods  is satisfactory.  To be 
considered satisfactory,  the goods would need  to meet the standard  that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description  of the goods, the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the other relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things  like the age and mileage 
at the time of supply and the cars  history.
I believe its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the quality of a new car to be 
higher than a more  well used  one which may have travelled many  miles and used  
significantly. 
In this case, VWFS supplied Miss L with a brand-new car which cost over £66,000. As such, 
I think she had a reasonable  expectation that it would  be free from defects and for a 
significant amount  of time. 
The agreement said the car hadnt  travelled  any miles but Miss L said when it was delivered, 
the car had covered approximately 4,000  miles.  However  there is no evidence to show  this 
was the case.  Given the car was first registered  in March 2018  and delivered to Miss L 
shortly thereafter, I believe its more likely than not, the car hadnt travelled that many miles 
in such a short space  of time. In my opinion, it is likely it had zero or minimal  miles travelled,  
so I will consider the complaint on that basis that the car hadnt  travelled any miles at the 
point of supply.  
Faulty window
In October  2018, Miss L reported there was a problem with one of the windows, it was stuck 
and it wouldnt go up. Based on evidence  of job cards and a window recall notice, it is 
evident there was a fault with the window unit. 
Ive already set out the high expectations, a reasonable  person would expect from a new car 
and I wouldnt expect  one that had only travelled 9,000 miles, to experience  such  a problem. 
For this reason Im not satisfied the car was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. To 
put things right, I would  expect a repair to be carried out which is what  happened here. The 
fault was fixed  by the dealership, the window unit was replaced at no cost to Miss L and she 
was also paid £250 compensation. I believe this was a fair remedy  to fix the fault. 
Multimedia interface (MMI) and virtual cockpit 
In December 2018, Miss L complained  the MMI was working intermittently and it would  often 
go blank. Ive seen  a copy of the video she provided  to the dealership showing the issues  
and it is clear there was a fault. For the same reasons stated  above,  I wouldnt expect a new 
car to experience such a problem at this point in time, therefore I believe this was a fault that 
made the car of unsatisfactory quality and I would expect it to be rectified which  is what  
happened here. Job cards confirm  the software  was updated and in January 2019 the 
control unit was replaced by the dealership, both at no cost to Miss L which I believe to be a 
fair remedy to resolve the issue. 
When initially bringing the complaint to our service,  Miss L said there were still problems with 
the MMI following this repair however she has since confirmed this issue is no longer 
present, so I consider the repair to have rectified  the fault. 
Ref: DRN02737773Brakes 
At the time of reaching this decision,  Miss L said the main outstanding problem related to the 
noise coming from the brakes. This had led to the car being returned to the dealership  on a 
number of occasions and an extensive road test of 200 miles carried out. Miss L said she 
experienced the noise soon after acquiring  the car and initially she thought it would settle.  
The earliest record of an inspection at the dealership is October  2018  so in the absence  of 
further evidence,  I consider  this to be the first time the car was brought  to the dealership for 
this issue.
 
During the inspection in October 2018, the brake pads  were found to be significantly worn, 
approximately 80%. The car had travelled  over 9,000 miles at that point. As a gesture of 
goodwill, they replaced the rear brake  pads  and de-glazed the front and rear brake  discs  at 
no cost to Miss L. 
Job cards  show  there had been a lot of work to the tyres and brake  changes  since  Miss L 
acquired the car. Given the length  of time and the mileage covered this appears to be 
unusual which might indicate theres  an underlying issue. Generally speaking, I would expect 
brakes on a brand new car to last longer. However theres simply not enough evidence  for 
me to safely  come  to that conclusion. This is because parts such as the brakes  can be 
affected by a number of factors such as driving  style. The dealership also explained the 
reason for the noise was due to friction as the brake pads  touched  the brake discs which is 
common and there  was no way of rectifying  this.
Therefore I invite Miss L to provide further evidence to show  theres likely an underlying  fault 
related to the brakes for me to consider. Depending on what  it shows, it might change  my 
opinion. 
Dent on passenger  door
Internal records from the dealership confirmed shortly after acquiring the car, Miss L 
complained about it being  delivered  with a dent on the passenger door. Based on this and 
the pictures shes provided, Im persuaded the car did have a dent when  supplied.  I wouldnt 
expect this to be present  on a brand-new car therefore I dont believe it was of satisfactory  
quality at the time of supply. I understand the dealership has recently offered to carry out a 
repair and I believe this is a fair remedy in the circumstances. However as Ive considered 
this complaint about VWFS and they are responsible for the quality of the car and putting 
things right, VWFS should liaise with the dealership  to arrange for this repair  to be carried  
out. I believe this would  be a reasonable way to resolve this issue.  
Other
I understand Miss L has reported a couple  of other issues such as the tyres, seatbelt, night 
light and more recently the air conditioning system. These might  be problems a reasonable 
person wouldnt  expect from a new car but currently there is insufficient evidence  for me to 
safely conclude these  issues  were  faults  which were present at the time of supply or an 
inherent manufacturer defect. As mentioned  above,  Im happy  to consider any further  
evidence Miss L wishes  to provide.
Ref: DRN02737774Miss L has mentioned  she was told by the dealership  that they would replace the car but 
theyve denied saying  this. I wasnt party to the conversation so I cant  say what was 
discussed or agreed. However  as I am considering  this complaint against  VWFS who is 
responsible for the quality of the car, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment  on any 
potential offer made by the dealership. If Miss L is unhappy with the dealerships conduct, 
she may wish to raise this with them directly  however this is unlikely to be a complaint we 
can help her with at our service.
Compensation
I know Miss L has received £250  compensation for the fault related to the window. However 
evidence shows shes returned  to the dealership on a number of occasions, related to the 
faults as outlined above that made the car of unsatisfactory quality. I also accept there may 
have been times when  she had impaired used of the car and she wasnt  provided with a 
courtesy car while the repairs  were being  carried out. This was a brand  new car which she 
paid a significant amount of money  for and there  is no doubt there were issues which  I dont 
believe a reasonable person would expect to occur.
In light of the dealerships recent  offer of repairing  the dent to the door, she will be required  
to return once again. Im sorry to hear Miss L experienced several issues with the car and it 
didnt perform as expected. For these reasons I think  VWFS  should  pay £250  compensation  
to her for the trouble  and upset caused.  
Summary
Overall, it is my opinion that Miss Ls car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
Although I find this to be the case, I believe the faults relating to the window and the MMI 
were put right at no cost to her and the dealership are willing  to repair  the issue  concerning  
the dent free of charge. In relation to the other  problems, there  is insufficient  evidence for me 
to safely conclude these  were faults which  were  present at the time of supply. With the 
exception of the repair to the dent and the additional  payment  of £250 compensation, I dont 
intend to ask VWFS to do anything more to settle  Miss Ls complaint. 
Response to provisional decision
VWFS accepted the provisional findings.  In regard to the repair to the dent, they said Miss L 
would need to arrange a suitable time and date to take the car to the dealership  and they 
can either reimburse the cost of repair or the dealership  can send the invoice to them  and 
they will pay them directly. As long as the dealership is within  the VWFS brand, they would  
be able to contact  VWFS for confirmation of the payment. They also said if Miss L would like 
to take the vehicle to an alternative body  repair  shop, they will pay the amount to Miss L 
providing a quote  is provided to them.
Miss L said the dealership had yet to contact her to arrange  the repair for the dent. She said 
the problems with the noises from the brakes are getting progressively worse despite the car 
being returned on multiple occasions. She said she would provide video evidence to 
demonstrate the problem  and she would try to get a report  from the dealership about it. She 
also said the air conditioning is not working  and the head rest has come out completely. Miss 
L said she had spent  around £2,000 to fix the issues with the car so she didnt believe £250 
compensation was enough given the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN02737775My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While I appreciate Miss Ls further  
comments, as requested  in the provisional decision,  I required further evidence  of the issues  
relating to the brakes and the air conditioning.  As no further  evidence  has been provided  
about this or the headrest, there is insufficient evidence for me to say these were  faults  
which were present at the time of supply. Therefore, Ive reached the same outcome as my 
provisional decisional and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
To put things right, Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should:
-Arrange with the dealership for the repair  to the dent to the passenger door; 
-Pay £250 compensation to Miss L for the trouble  and upset caused. 
Ill look at any more  comments  and evidence that I get by 3 December 2020. But unless the 
information changes  my mind, my final decision is likely to be as stated  above.
Simona Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0273777