K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold an Additions Plus Account (APA) by Barclays  Bank  
UK Plc (Barclays) in April 2008.
background
Mrs B took out a current account with Barclays in August 1996.
The account  was upgraded to an APA with a monthly fee in April 2004.
Mrs B downgraded her account to a fee free current account in January 2007.
She then upgraded her account back to an APA with a monthly fee in April 2008.
She changed the account to a current account with tech and travel pack which  incurred a 
fee in January 2017.
Mrs B has complained to Barclays about the two APA sales and the tech  and travel  pack 
change. Barclays  upheld her complaint about the April 2004 APA sale and has returned the 
fees she paid from April 2004 until January 2007.
Barclays did not uphold  her complaint about the APA sale in April 2008 or the tech  and 
travel pack change in 2017.
Our adjudicator investigated Mrs Bs complaint about the APA sale in April 2008 and the 
tech and travel pack change in 2017  and did not uphold it. Mrs B disagrees and so the case 
has come  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  explained  how we handle  
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used the approach  to 
help me decide  Mrs Bs complaint.
To be clear, as Barclays has upheld Mrs Bs complaint about the April 2004 APA sale,  I will 
only be looking at the April 2008  APA sale and the tech and travel pack change in 2017.
In my view Mrs B has been very clear about  what her main complaint is. She says that the 
only reason she took out the APA in April 2008  is because Barclays  told her in a meeting 
that it was the only way she could increase the overdraft facility she had on her current  
account. And she says she has kept the APA in the belief that she could not get a large 
overdraft facility if she gave it up.
Mrs B has explained that she didnt agree  to taking out the first APA in April 2004 and that is 
why, she says, Barclays returned the fees to her in 2007. 
Mrs B says that she has never used any of the benefits that came with either of the APAs  
other than the overdraft  facility.
Ref: DRN08003232Barclays says that it didnt tell Mrs B that taking out the APA was the only way she could 
increase her overdraft facility in 2008.  Instead  it says that it provided her with all the 
information about the account and she decided it was right for her.
Its not possible for me to know what was said at the meeting over ten years ago, so I can 
only consider what  each party says now and the evidence available.
Firstly Ive considered whether Mrs B was given a choice whether to take out the APA in 
April 2008 or not, and whether she chose  to take it out.
Mrs B had her first APA for two and half years. She then had her fee free account with an 
overdraft facility from Barclays for five months before the sale of the second  APA.  So she 
had known about packaged bank  accounts, and she was aware  fee free accounts with 
overdrafts were available in April 2008.  She says that she also had at least  one account with 
another bank  at the time of sale. 
So I think she had experience of looking into the banking market  and using banking  facilities. 
And whilst I dont doubt Mrs Bs honest recollections  I think  its more likely than not that if 
Barclays had offered her the APA for any reason including overdraft facilities and she was 
unhappy at paying a fee she would have looked elsewhere and seen she had alternatives 
for banking  accounts  and borrowing.
So I dont  think its reasonable for me to conclude that in April 2008  Mrs M was completely 
unaware that other banks and financial institutions offered competitive fee free accounts with 
substantial overdraft and borrowing  facilities  as I would need to in order  to uphold her 
complaint on this point.  Also Barclays has provided  a copy  of the application form for the 
APA which Mrs B has signed  and dated. So I think Mrs B knew  she had a choice about 
whether to take out the APA and she chose to take it out.
Barclays says that it wasnt an advised sale, and Ive not seen any evidence such  as an 
assessment of Mrs Bs needs to show that it was. So, I think its more likely than not that it 
was a non advised sale and Barclays only needed to provide  Mrs B with sufficient 
information about the APA to make an informed choice.
The APA contained a range of benefits including mobile phone  cover,  car breakdown cover,  
worldwide travel insurance, cardholder protection, home emergency cover, extended 
warranty and a £250 interest  free overdraft  facility. I dont know what Barclays said or what  
information it gave  Mrs B but Barclays was trying to sell the APA to Mrs B so I think  its likely 
it gave her a full description of the benefits.  
I also think its clear  that Mrs B was interested  in some of the benefits. I say this because  
she says that she was looking to increase her short term borrowing flexibility and the APA 
provided a better overdraft facility than her current account. And Barclays  has provided 
evidence that she benefitted from the better  overdraft rates  after the sale.  
Whilst I accept  that Mrs B says she didnt  have a car or go on holiday in 2008,  she had a 
mobile phone (albeit  an old one); she qualified for the home emergency cover  in her 
permanent place of residence; and she could  also have  claimed  on some of the other 
benefits. And there was nothing Mrs B has raised  about her personal circumstances that 
would have prevented her from using the benefits.  
Ref: DRN08003233As this was an information  only sale, it was for Mrs B to decide  if she wanted the benefits 
and then arrange to use them if she wished.
So in my view I can see why Mrs B mightve been interested in the APA and there was no 
information that she didnt receive that would likely have put her off taking it out.
In 2016 Barclays  wrote to Mrs B to tell her the APA would no longer be available and it was 
being replaced by a current account with a tech and travel pack  that offered similar benefits 
for a similar fee. Barclays asked Mrs B to reply if she didnt want the replacement account. 
Mrs B didnt reply so Barclays wrote to her again to say the change to the account had been  
made. Ive seen copies  of the letters and they are both correctly  addressed,  so I think  its 
more likely than not that she received at least one of them  and could have closed the 
account if she had wished to.
So, while I know Mrs B will be disappointed by this, I dont think  Barclays  mis-sold the APA 
to her, and I dont  think Barclays  did anything wrong  when it changed her account  to a 
current account with tech and travel pack.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0800323