K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds  decision to withdraw cover for his wifes 
medical condition  under his private  medical insurance policy. 
background
Mr P holds a private medical insurance  policy, which  covers him and his wife (Mrs P). 
In 2012, Mrs P was diagnosed with thalassemia,  which is a hereditary  condition. She has 
been making regular claims under the policy since then,  which  have been authorised and 
settled by BUPA. 
In 2018, after dealing with a claim Mrs P had made, BUPA realised that her condition  was 
hereditary. As the policy excludes cover for hereditary conditions, BUPA said it wouldnt 
cover any further claims. However, it said it would cover the claim Mrs P had submitted, as 
well as three months of medication. Unhappy with BUPAs decision, Mr P brought a 
complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He thought BUPA  was entitled  
to apply the exclusion.
Mr P has asked  for an ombudsmans decision,  so the matter has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy excludes:
Treatment  of abnormalities, deformities, diseases  or illnesses that are only present 
because they have been passed down through the generations  of your family, except 
cancer.
Treatment is defined as:
Surgical or medical  services (including diagnostic  tests) that are needed to diagnose, 
relieve or cure a condition, disease,  illness or injury.
Since our adjudicator  issued his opinion on the case, Mr P has made  the argument that his 
wife hasnt received  treatment for thalassemia.  He says the claims were made for high blood 
iron, which is a consequence of thalassemia. He explains  that all the tests  and consultations 
have taken place  to see if iron loading in the organs is occurring. And the only treatment his 
wife has required for thalassemia  is a supplement.  
The NHS says that people  with thalassaemia produce either no or too little haemoglobin. 
And the main symptoms  associated with thalassaemia are anaemia or too much iron in the 
body. 
Since Mrs P has been having consultations,  tests  and has been prescribed supplements to 
monitor and control a symptom of thalassaemia  (too much  iron), it seems to me that this 
Ref: DRN08854532would fall under the treatment of her condition. The alternative would be to say the treatment 
was done for preventive reasons  and the policy excludes preventive treatment. 
Im therefore  satisfied BUPA was entitled to rely on this exclusion, once it realised Mrs Ps 
condition was hereditary. 
However, as BUPA  had pre-authorised a consultation that took place in January 2018,  it 
agreed to cover this. It also said it would  cover three months worth of medication. I think  this 
was fair. 
Mr P thinks  his wife has been disadvantaged  as a result of BUPA covering  her condition 
since 2012. He says if theyd known at the outset that BUPA wouldnt cover hereditary 
conditions, they would  have taken out cover elsewhere. 
Ive therefore  considered  whether Mrs P could have obtained cover elsewhere for her 
condition. 
Our adjudicator said that exclusions for hereditary  conditions are commonplace  throughout 
the private medical insurance industry. That may be the case, nonetheless, Ive carried out 
an internet search  and have found  two UK insurers that dont exclude hereditary  conditions. 
Mr P has confirmed  hes also been  able to find some insurers in his country of residence that 
dont exclude  hereditary conditions. 
However, insurers usually  exclude  pre-existing medical conditions,  and so I think its unlikely 
that Mrs P could have  obtained cover with another insurer  for her condition  even if BUPA  
had told her at the outset  that her condition  was excluded under the policy. 
If Mrs P had taken out a new policy on a moratorium basis,  there  is the potential for pre-
existing conditions to be covered after a few years if an insured person  hasnt  needed any 
medical treatment or check  ups in that time. However, I understand Mrs P has required 
regular consultations  and testing for her condition since being diagnosed. She is also 
prescribed supplements.  Therefore,  I think it unlikely she could have  obtained cover  for her 
condition in this way either. 
Whilst I can understand Mr and Mrs Ps frustration  that BUPA has sought  to now rely on the 
exclusion after such a long period of accepting  claims, I dont think theyve shown that Mrs P 
was disadvantaged as a result of BUPAs failure  to rely on the exclusion previously. Instead  
theyve benefited  from having claims paid that werent actually eligible under the policy. 
I therefore dont  require BUPA to provide cover for Mrs Ps condition.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08854533
Ref: DRN0885453