K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them two payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policies on a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs L took out the first PPI policy with a mortgage in 1988 and both the mortgage 
and the PPI started in 1989.  Later they borrowed  more money in 1995  and a new PPI policy  
was set up to cover  the new mortgage  payments. Mr and Mrs L paid a monthly amount for 
the policies. The mortgages were in joint names  and the PPI provided  cover for just Mr L. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Both Bradford & Bingley and Mr and Mrs L agree that the sales  took place during a meeting. 
Mr and Mrs L say they didnt know that they had a choice  whether or not to take the policies. 
Bradford & Bingley  say that the optional nature of the policies was made clear to 
Mr and Mrs L. Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ls testimony and the evidence  that has been 
provided by Bradford & Bingley in order to decide  what is most likely to have happened.
Ive closely looked  at the paperwork  from both sales. To get the PPI in 1988 Mr and Mrs L 
had to select the cover by ticking a box and specifying the benefit  amount. To get the cover  
in 1995 Mr and Mrs L had to say Yes  to the cover.  The application form also said that No 
was a possible option. PPI was selected in those ways in these application forms and 
Mr and Mrs L signed those application  forms agreeing to their contents. So, overall  I think  
that they knew they were taking out PPI on each occasion and knew  they had a choice 
about doing so.
Bradford & Bingley  said it didnt  recommend  the PPI policies to Mr and Mrs L, but 
Mr and Mrs L recall  being  advised  to take the cover.  Because  it makes  no difference  to the 
outcome of this complaint, whilst placing a higher responsibility on Bradford & Bingley, I 
have assessed  this complaint as if advice was given. So, Bradford& Bingley had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the policies were  suitable for Mr and Mrs L. 
Ive looked at the circumstances  of Mr and Mrs L at the times of each sale and I dont think 
these were unsuitable recommendations. I say this because:
Mr L was eligible for the policies and was not affected by any of the exclusions  from 
or limits to the PPI policies.
Mr and Mrs L had a need for the policies. Mr L says he was entitled to sick pay from 
his employer but this wouldnt have lasted  beyond six months.  The benefit of the PPI 
Ref: DRN07886532would have lasted  with no limit in 1988. By 1995  the benefit would have paid for up 
to 12 months. And the PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ls sick pay entitlement  at 
both times  and for longer  than his employer wouldve  paid him at his full rate of pay. 
And Mr and Mrs L told us that they had no other means they could have relied on. 
And as well as providing cover in the event  of ill health, the policies  would have 
provided benefits if Mr L lost his job. So I think the PPI policies wouldve provided a 
useful benefit  for Mr and Mrs L. 
The policies appear to have been comparable in cost to other  policies offering similar 
insurance at the time and it appears  to have been affordable.
Taking all these things  into account  I think the PPI policies were suitable  for them.  
As well as checking the policies were right for Mr and Mrs L, Bradford & Bingley also had to 
give them  clear enough information about  the policies so they could decide  if they wanted  to 
buy them.  Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley  gave them was not as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  However, for the same  reasons I think the policies were suitable, Im not 
persuaded more  information would have made a difference to their decision to take out the 
PPI policies.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. And I make no 
award against Bradford & Bingley Bank Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2019. 
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0788653