K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund transactions  carried out on his account, which  
he says he didnt authorise.  Hes also unhappy that TSB registered a CIFAS marker against 
his name  claiming  that hed misused his banking facility by submitting a false fraud  claim.
Mr G additionally complains about  the way in which he was treated  by a member  of staff 
when attending  a branch  of TSB to withdraw  his balance.
Background
Between 01 April 2017  and 24 April 2017, Mr Gs TSB account showed  that ten payments 
were made to a pre-paid card service totalling £1,670.
Mr G said he attended a branch of TSB around  17 May 2017  to obtain a mini-statement. It 
was when checking this mini-statement he discovered the transactions  and contacted  TSB 
to dispute them. The following day Mr G was contacted by TSBs Fraud  Team and was 
advised that TSB were unable to accept  that Mr G didnt authorise  the payments. TSB said 
that an investigation into these payments concluded  that Mr G made  them because:
The same Internet  Protocol (IP) address used to make the disputed  payments had been 
used by Mr G to log into his internet banking account.
Mr G didnt need to attend a branch to obtain his balance  as this was available online, 
and he regularly  accessed his internet banking.
Mr G was making  transfers into his account from his savings prior to each of the 
disputed payments being made.  And the amount transferred  into the account  matched 
the amount of the disputed payments.
Mr G said when questioned that he believed the reduced balance  on his account was 
from declined  payments he made at the time to an online retailer. TSB didnt  think  it 
likely a third party  made payments from Mr Gs account  on the same  day and for the 
same amount as those  transactions Mr G claimed he made to an online retailer.
There was no evidence  of declined payments on Mr Gs account to the online retailer  he 
suggested he attempted to make payments to.
None of the payments placed  the account  into its overdraft, indicating  the fraudster 
would have  been able to determine the balance  on the account. This also didnt coincide 
with how fraudsters  normally operate.
It was unlikely  the fraudster would  have access to Mr Gs bank  card, internet banking 
details and use the same  IP address he was using to access the account.
Mr G had made fraud claims  previously  to TSB which were  proven to be false.
Mr G didnt agree with TSBs decision as he thought he may have been  a victim of identity 
fraud whilst he was using  public computers. And he didnt  agree with TSBs point regarding 
his overdraft, as he said he didnt have access to this facility.  Mr G said he was unhappy  with 
TSBs decision  as it promised to refund the transactions if he provided a crime reference 
number from the police; which he did. 
Ref: DRN02586272He also made a further complaint to TSB regarding the behaviour of one of its branch 
employees. He said, when trying to withdraw  his remaining balance, the TSB staff member 
was rude to him and threatened to call the police.
TSB provided a further response  to Mr G saying it was unable to find any record that it 
promised him a refund if he provided  a crime reference number. And it felt its member of 
staff acted appropriately as Mr G refused to leave the branch when asked. 
Mr G was unhappy with this response, so he brought  his complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator looked into this but didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, she felt unable to conclude that the payments were made fraudulently  and was 
persuaded they were most likely  made and authorised by Mr G. And she felt TSB treated 
Mr G fairly when  he attended a branch of TSB.
Mr G responded to say that the police  confirmed he was a victim of identity fraud due to his 
post being compromised; this was due to his residence having a shared postal area. He also 
said police  confirmed the hacking  of his public Wi-Fi use was evident. As Mr G didnt agree 
with the investigators  view, the matter has been  passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reason.
The transactions in dispute
Generally, TSB can hold Mr G liable  for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not he made or authorised them  himself.  Im satisfied  that Mr Gs 
genuine card details were  used  to make the ten payments  he disputes. But the regulations  
relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable  TSB to hold him liable. So, 
I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely  than not that 
Mr G consented to the payments being made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for TSB to conclude  that Mr G authorised 
the payments.  This is because:
The payments were  made using the genuine  details held on Mr Gs card. But there  is no 
explanation for how a third party could have known these details as Mr G said he had 
possession of his card and no other person was authorised to use it.
Mr Gs internet banking history shows he was regularly logging  into his account  
throughout the period  the disputed transactions were being carried out. I think it unlikely 
he didnt notice  his reduced balance on each  of these occasions and not query this earlier.
Mr G contacted  TSB in May 2017  to dispute  transactions  on his account in February 2017. 
But he didnt  mention the payments  disputed on this complaint, made in April 2017.
Ref: DRN02586273Mr G hadnt provided his internet banking login details to any third party or recorded 
them anywhere. So its unlikely a third party could have  learned  them  in order  to check  
the balance on the account to ensure they were  making payments that coincided with 
the accounts balance. It also means its more likely  than not to have been Mr G logging 
on at the times Ive explained above.
The IP address used to make the disputed payments matches the IP address used to 
log into Mr Gs internet  banking, making  it more  likely  that the person checking the 
account balance  to be the person authorising the disputed payments.
Each of the disputed payments made  were  following transfers Mr G admits to carrying 
out from his savings accounts to his TSB account. Its unlikely a fraudster would  have 
known Mr G would be making these transfers without regular access  to his balance,  
allowing them to make the disputed payments at around  the same time and for the 
same amount as the transfers.
Its unusual behaviour for a fraudster not to maximise their financial gain by attempting 
to remove all available funds from the account rather  than a proportion  of this, including 
any arranged  or unarranged  overdraft  facility.
Its unusual that Mr G would attend  branch and request  a mini-statement for his account  
balance and transactions when he was regularly accessing his internet banking.  And he 
has provided  inconsistent testimonies explaining why he attended branch to obtain a 
mini-statement. Originally he said this was because hed not received his monthly 
statement and when  questioned further said it was as a result  of noticing a reduced 
balance when  checking his account  online.
The pre-paid card which the disputed payments were made to was opened using Mr Gs 
personal information. I accept its possible that the account was opened  without Mr Gs 
knowledge; as limited information  is required in order to do this. And I appreciate  Mr Gs 
point that his postal area was shared with other residents.  But the pre-paid  card provider 
has confirmed  that address  verification  was carried  out and I think it unlikely Mr G hadnt 
received either correspondence from the provider  or the card and PIN associated with 
the account, as intercepting or identifying all of these would have been a difficult task.
In response to our investigators opinion, Mr G said he believed he was a victim of identity 
fraud as he regularly used public computers  to access his account.  Whilst I agree this is a 
possibility, I think the evidence suggests its more  likely Mr G made the payments himself.  
I think if a fraudster had managed to obtain Mr Gs internet banking details from monitoring 
the public  computer he was using, its unlikely  they would have been able to access  his card 
and security details using this method. And when considering the other points Ive outlined  
above, Im persuaded that this is an unlikely scenario in these circumstances.
In addition to the above,  Mr G said he didnt  suspect the reduced  account balance as he 
made purchases for the same amount to an online retailer at the time, which  he says were  
declined. But Mr G hasnt been  able to provide evidence to support this testimony. 
Nevertheless, its unlikely  a third party would be aware of these transactions when removing 
the funds from the account or how much  they were  for. And I think  it unusual that Mr G 
thought the reduced balance was as a result of payments to the online retailer despite 
knowing theyd been declined. So, I dont think this a persuasive  explanation as to why hed 
not noticed the payments  sooner, despite his regular online banking  activity. Additionally, it is 
clear from looking at Mr Gs transactions that the disputed payments were clearly referenced  
in the name  of the pre-paid card provider  and not the online shopping  retailer.  
Ref: DRN02586274Ive also considered Mr Gs point that the police confirmed hed been victim of an identity 
fraud, but Ive only seen  evidence of him reporting  this to the police. And although Mr G may 
have been advised by the police how he may be vulnerable to fraud, this doesnt prove he 
was in fact a victim of fraud. Whilst I find it unusual  Mr G would report a fraud  to the police if 
he authorised the transactions,  I dont  think this goes far enough to show how a third party 
carried out the fraud when considering all the points above.
So, on balance, the evidence in this case suggests it more  likely  that Mr G authorised the 
transactions. Whilst I appreciate the points  Mr G has made,  I think it unreasonable to expect 
TSB to refund the transactions in these circumstances.
Mr Gs complaint about what happened in branch
Ive also considered Mr Gs complaint regarding his treatment when attending a branch of TSB 
to withdraw his remaining balance. Mr G said that he felt the TSB staff member was rude to 
him as he was shouted at and told the police would be called if he didnt leave the branch.
Whilst I wasnt present during the incident,  I think it likely in these circumstances  that 
emotions were running high as a result  of the disputed transactions and account  closure.  
Whilst I appreciate Mr Gs frustrations with trying to resolve these issues, I think  it 
reasonable for staff to ask Mr G to leave the branch when there wasnt any further  
assistance they could provide him. And had he refused  this instruction then I dont think  it 
unreasonable that staff request the assistance  of police to prevent the situation escalating  
further. As there is no other  evidence  to support what took place on this particular occasion, 
Im not persuaded Mr G was treated unfairly  by TSB in branch.
I do acknowledge that TSB could  have given more specific instruction on how Mr G could 
draw his remaining  balance, but Im satisfied that it couldnt have  known which branch Mr G 
would attend and it did tell him that he should  attend a branch to arrange the withdrawal 
rather than to make the withdrawal. Although  TSB could have been clearer, I dont think TSB 
had explicitly done anything wrong.
Mr Gs complaint about having a CIFAS  marker recorded against  his name
As Ive outlined already, I think it more likely that Mr G authorised the transactions hes 
disputed. So, on this basis I think it fair that TSB reported the information to CIFAS. For 
these reasons I wont be asking TSB to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0258627