K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  National  Westminster Bank Plc told her that shed have to return  to the UK 
to collect statements when they could have been  sent to her overseas.
background
Ms S has an account with NatWest with a debit card.
In September  2017 Ms S went overseas to help her mother. Sadly Ms Ss mother  passed 
away in November 2017. Ms S remained overseas after her mother  passed away.
Ms S lost a bag containing  her debit card and passport, amongst other things, whilst 
overseas. She reported her card lost shortly after her mother passed away. NatWest ordered 
a replacement card to be picked up from her branch  in the UK.
On 30 April 2018 Ms S called NatWest to check shed be able to pick up her statements from 
September 2017 if she returned to the UK and visited her branch.  Ms S said shed pick up 
her replacement card at the same time. NatWest said that this wouldnt be a problem,  and 
that her branch  would  be able to print the statements out at the counter.
On 16 May 2018 Ms S flew to the UK to pick up her statements and replacement  card.  Her 
replacement card wasnt there and she was told her statements would have  to be ordered  
and would take at least five business days to come. Ms S flew back  on 19 May 2018.
On 29 May 2018 Ms S flew to the UK a second  time to pick up her statements and her 
replacement card. Ms S says she wasnt given her the statements. She says she didnt get 
them until they were  sent to her overseas in September 2018.
Ms S complained to NatWest saying  it should  have posted her statements to her in April 
2018 when she originally asked for them. She was unhappy that shed made  two 
unnecessary visits to the UK and that by the time she got her statements it was too late.
NatWest investigated  Ms Ss complaint and agreed  that it should have told her sooner than it 
could have posted her statements to her. NatWest  agreed to reimburse the costs Ms S had 
incurred visiting the UK and to pay her £175  in compensation. Ms S complained to us saying 
that NatWest didnt reimburse  her costs.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Ss complaint and agreed  that it should  be upheld.  
NatWest initially agreed with our investigators recommendations, but then had second 
thoughts. Ms S wasnt  happy  saying, amongst other things, that our investigator hadnt 
compensated her for the chance shed lost because of the delays in getting her statements. 
So I looked  into this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S lost her debit card sometime between September  and November 2017. She reported it 
lost shortly after her mother passed  away but didnt collect a replacement  card until the end 
of May 2018. In the meantime, instead of using her debit  card,  Ms S sent NatWest faxes 
Ref: DRN07502082when she needed  to pay bills or transfer money to third parties.  She sent faxes  from hotels 
she was staying in or had stayed in. In other words, she was able to manage her finances 
despite not having a debit card for over six months.
Ms S called  NatWest on 30 April 2018  about a fax shed  sent as it didnt look like the 
payment shed asked  to be made  had gone  through. Ive listened  to that call. Having done 
so, I can see that Ms S asked NatWest whether shed be able to get her statements from 
September 2017 if she came to the UK and visited her branch. NatWest told Ms S that she 
wouldnt have to wait and that the branch would be able to print her statements off at the 
counter straightaway. Ms S then arranged to fly back  to the UK.
Ms S flew to the UK on 16 May 2018. The following day she went to NatWest to pick up her 
statements and replacement card. The branch told Ms S that it would have to order  her 
statements and that they wouldnt be available for five business days   the opposite of what  
shed been told on 30 April 2018. A second  replacement card had to be ordered too. Thats 
because the one that had been ordered in November 2017  had been destroyed as it had 
been waiting to be collected  in the branch for over 28 days.  In other  words,  Ms S wasnt  able 
to collect her statements  or her replacement  card.  Im satisfied  that NatWest  could  have 
done more to have avoided Ms S wasting  this visit. Ms S arranged to come  back  to the UK a 
second time  she booked the tickets the day she left the UK.
Ms S flew to the UK a second  time on 29 May 2018. The following  day she again went  to 
NatWest to pick up her statements and replacement card. Based on the evidence  Ive seen, 
Im satisfied that Ms Ss statements and replacement card were both ready for collection. 
However, Im also satisfied that Ms S wasnt given the statements and was also told that her 
replacement card hadnt arrived. It wasnt until Ms S returned the following day that she was 
given her replacement  card.  Ms S still didnt get her statements. Im again satisfied that 
NatWest could have  done more to have avoided this happening.
Ms S didnt get her statements until September 2018  she didnt have to return to the UK a 
third time because NatWest sent them to her overseas.  Ms S was very unhappy with the 
delay, saying that the statements had also arrived too late to be of any use.
what does NatWest need to put right?
Our investigator recommended, amongst other  things, that NatWest  reimburse  Ms S for the 
costs shed incurred  coming to the UK twice. NatWest initially agreed  to this, but then said it 
didnt think it should have to pay for two trips saying that Ms S had already made  plans to 
return to the UK for a second trip to attend  a doctors  appointment. Ms S disagreed, saying 
that she didnt  book the appointment  until the last minute  when shed returned to the UK 
the second time. I dont accept what either party has said on this point.  Ive explained why 
below. More recently NatWest has said it shouldnt have to pay for two trips because  it 
wouldnt have been able to post the statements to Ms S in April 2018 when she originally  
asked for them  because she had no fixed address at the time. I dont accept this either. 
Again Ive explained why below.
was the replacement debit card Ms Ss main reason for returning to the UK?
Ms S lost her debit card sometime between September  and December 201 but didnt come 
back to the UK to pick up a replacement card until May 2018. In other words,  she was 
without a debit  card for almost six months.  She sent faxes to NatWest  when  she needed to 
make payments in the meantime and seemed happy  with this arrangement. In the 
Ref: DRN07502083circumstances, I dont  think  I can say that getting a replacement card was a priority for Ms S. 
Nor can I say it was the main reason for her returning to the UK. She would have returned to 
the UK much sooner  had that been the case.
was the doctors appointment  Ms Ss main reason for returning to the UK?
Ms S has asked NatWest  to cover the cost of taxis to and from the airport.  Shes  done  so 
saying she was unable  to carry her luggage  because of a shoulder problem. Ms S has told 
me that the doctors  appointment   with her NHS GP  was about  this shoulder problem. I 
would have expected Ms S to have  booked this appointment  the first time she visited the UK 
if, as shes suggested,  she was able to book  an appointment at short  notice. I say this 
because she already had a problem  with her shoulder  thats why shes claimed the costs 
of getting a taxi for her first trip as well as her second trip  and as far as she was concerned  
she wasnt going to be coming back to the UK again soon. It wasnt until she couldnt  get her 
statements that she booked her second  trip. In the circumstances, I think  its more likely than 
not that she booked an appointment to see her GP when she found out that shed have to 
visit the UK a second time. Ive taken into account the fact that GP appointments arent  easy 
to get at short notice, and that they often have to be booked in advance,  when coming to 
these conclusions. In short,  I dont accept that Ms S booked the appointment at the last 
minute, nor do I accept that shed already made  plans to return  to the UK so she could see 
her doctor. It follows that I dont accept the doctors  appointment was Ms Ss main reason for 
returning to the UK.
were the statements  Ms Ss main reason  for returning to the UK?
Ms Ss lawyer  told her in April 2018 that shed need her statements from September  2017 in 
order to recover some payments shed  made.  She arranged  this quickly   calling NatWest to 
check shed be able to collect  her statements from the branch if she came  to the UK. Having 
spoken to Ms S, I know recovering those payments was very important for her as she needs 
money to fund a piece  of litigation in the UK that is extremely important to her. The fact that 
Ms S made arrangements to get her statements  quickly reflects this. In the circumstances, 
Im satisfied that Ms S wouldnt have returned  to the UK on 16 May 2018 had it not been for 
her need  to get statements,  and I dont think she would have made a second  trip had it not 
been for her still needing the statements. In short,  I think the statements  were a priority for 
Ms S, and they were the main reason why she returned to the UK on 16 and 30 May 2018.
could NatWest  have  sent Ms Ss statements to her earlier?
Ms S was living abroad between September 2017 and September 2018. Shes told me that 
she lived at a number  of different addresses  during that period  initially  a couple  of hotels 
and then in a property she rented. NatWest sent Ms S the statements she needed in 
September 2018 to an overseas address. Im satisfied that Ms S could have given NatWest 
an overseas address to send the statements to earlier had she known that this was an 
option. She could,  for example, have given her lawyers  address, the address of one of the 
hotels she stayed in or the address of the house she rented. In short, I dont accept that 
NatWest wouldnt have  been able to send  Ms S the statements  she needed earlier  because  
she was moving around and had no fixed address.
overdraft fees and charges, travel  costs and compensation
Our investigator recommended that NatWest reimburse fees and charges  that were  applied 
to Ms Ss account as a result of it going  overdrawn  on the basis  that the costs Ms S had 
Ref: DRN07502084incurred flying back to the UK twice had caused her account to go overdrawn  and increase 
the £175 in compensation  that NatWest had offered to £575. In addition,  our investigator 
recommended that NatWest reimburse  the costs Ms S had incurred travelling to and staying 
in the UK twice.  NatWest initially accepted our investigators recommendations, but then 
questioned why it was reimbursing Ms S for the cost of two trips as explained above. 
Ive already said that I dont accept that Ms Ss second trip was booked so she could see her 
doctor or that NatWest couldnt have sent statements to Ms S in April 2018 because she was 
moving around and so had no fixed address either.  In the circumstances, I agree with our 
investigator  although  for different reasons  that Ms S came to the UK twice  when she 
didnt have to do so. Ms S also had to wait five months for her statements  NatWest  sent 
them to her in September 2018   by which time it was too late for Ms S to put them  to good 
use. This caused  Ms S a considerable amount of distress  at a time when  a lot was going 
on in her life  and a very considerable amount of inconvenience too. So I agree its fair to 
tell NatWest to reimburse the costs Ms S incurred coming to the UK twice, and to refund the 
charges applied to her account and to increase  the compensation it has offered. I consider a 
figure of £750  to be more appropriate.  I know Ms S wants to be compensated for loss  of 
chance  the payments  she wanted to recover which  she says the statements were going  to 
help with  but I consider that loss to be too remote  and too speculative. I dont, as such,  
think it would  be fair to say NatWest  should  compensate Ms S for this loss.
my final decision
My Final  Decision is that Im requiring National Westminster Bank Plc:
to reimburse the costs  Ms S incurred coming to the UK twice (flights,  hotels and 
taxis);
to refund the charges  applied to her account  as a result  of Ms S incurring the costs of 
returning to the UK twice and going overdrawn;  and
to pay Ms S £750  in compensation for the trouble  and upset its caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0750208