K820x#14complaint
Ms C has complained that Zenith  Insurance Plc settled a third party  claim against her car 
insurance policy which she believes was fraudulent.
background
Ms C bought a car insurance policy  with Zenith  in July 2017. In January 2018  she reversed 
her car at low speed into a parked  car behind her. She said the other driver complained of a 
back injury and damage to the bumper of his car. 
Ms C reported the incident to Zenith that evening and Zenith discussed liability  with her as it 
said she would be held at fault. Ms C asked if it made a difference  because the other  driver  
was parked on double yellow lines. But Zenith said it wouldnt.
A few months later  Ms Cs father received a call from an agent asking if he was happy with 
the repairs carried out to Ms Cs car. But this was a mistake as Ms C hadnt claimed  she 
said her car hadnt suffered any damage at the time.  But this call prompted  Ms C to contact 
Zenith. She said it was then that she found  out it had settled a claim  from the other driver. 
Ms C complained to Zenith as she was unhappy  with the costs of the other drivers claim.
Zenith said it had dealt with the claim in line with the terms of her policy. It said it received 
medical evidence  to support the other drivers claim and because Ms C was at fault for the 
incident, it wouldnt have  been able to defend  the claim.
Ms C remained unhappy  and asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator explained 
that we dont decide liability. But she thought that Zenith had reached its decision in line with 
the policy and in a reasonable way. 
Ms C didnt agree. She believes Zenith has failed to properly investigate a potentially 
fraudulent claim and is unhappy that we dont  appear to have taken her concerns seriously.
So Ms C would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Ms Cs policy  says that Zenith can take over the control and defence of a claim and decide  
how best to settle  it in Ms Cs name. This isnt an unusual term as Ive seen it in most  if not 
all motor insurance policies. This means  Zenith might  make a decision Ms C doesnt agree 
with, but the policy allows  Zenith to do this. As the insurer, it deals with claims all the time 
and has experience in deciding which claims it can successfully defend  and which might be 
better to settle on the best terms possible. We dont disagree with this term in principle 
provided an insurer can show  it treated its customer fairly when applying it. 
I understand Ms C is unhappy that Zenith didnt ask for photos  she took of both cars at the 
time of the incident. Ms C told us that there was no damage to her car. She said that the 
other driver pulled at his bumper immediately after the incident. Ms C said she lightly  tapped 
the other drivers car. She believes the costs of the other drivers  claim are fraudulent.  
Ref: DRN07788492However, Zenith received a claim for personal injury from a representative of the other driver 
a few days after the incident. The other drivers description of the circumstances  of the 
incident matched  what Ms C told Zenith. This claim was supported by medical evidence. And 
it received an engineers  report  which  showed  minor damage to the area of the other  drivers  
car consistent with the circumstances of the incident. 
As Ms C was carrying  out the manoeuvre of reversing, the onus was on her to check  it was 
clear before she did this. As she hit the other  drivers  car, Zenith  explained from the outset 
that Ms C would be held at fault for the incident. And because it received medical evidence 
to support the other  drivers injuries which were  consistent with the circumstances, it decided 
it couldnt defend the claim. 
So I think Zeniths decision to settle the other  drivers  claim was reached in a fair and 
reasonable way. And while I think it should  have  let Ms C know when it settled the other 
drivers claim  in May 2018, overall  I think it acted reasonably. Ms C told us that it was the call 
her Dad received  and the fact that her renewal  premium  was higher for July 2018  that 
prompted her to contact  Zenith. This is when she found out it had settled the other  drivers 
claim. Ms C has told us that it isnt the difference in premium which she is upset about  as 
this is minimal. Shes unhappy that Zenith  failed to properly  investigate the other  drivers  
claim. 
I know Ms C is upset  about Zeniths decision.  But it isnt in an insurers  interest  to settle 
claims that it has a good chance of defending. Zenith said it wasnt  necessary to review 
Ms Cs photos of the cars as the evidence it received from the other  drivers  representative  
was enough to support his claim. 
So I think Zenith settled  the claim reasonably as a fault claim against  Ms C and in line with 
the policy. This means I dont think Zenith needs  to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0778849