K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited  unfairly declined  a claim 
they made under their travel insurance  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C were due to go on holiday  from 7 March  to 8 April 2019.  They  booked  their trip 
in May 2018  and renewed their annual  travel insurance policy in June 2018. They delayed 
the start of their trip to attend the funeral of Mr Cs father who sadly  passed away shortly 
before their planned  departure. Their  travel company cancelled all of their plans for 7 to 12 
March 2019, and booked them new departure flights for 13 March 2019. 
Mr and Mrs C submitted  a claim under their travel insurance policy  with Admiral.  They  asked 
it to reimburse them  for the costs incurred as a result of these changes  and the lost week of 
their holiday.  But Admiral declined their claim.  It directed  them to the What  is not covered 
part of Section 2 of their policy, Cancelling or cutting short your trip which states  that:
We will not pay any claim:
related to a pre-existing medical condition of other people your  trip depends upon, such 
as a close  relative . which  they had at the start or renewal of your  policy  or when you 
booked a trip (whichever is later).
Mr and Mrs C dont feel Admiral has acted fairly here. Theyve explained that although 
Mr Cs father  had a pre-existing condition of atrial  fibrillation  for many years, they had no 
reason to believe he was at particular risk. They say he contracted  pneumonia which led to 
congestive heart failure, and that this was the cause of his death. And they dont feel this 
could have been foreseen when they booked their holiday. Mr and Mrs C also raised some 
questions about  Admirals application process  and policy wording interpretation. In particular 
they argue  that their trip was not dependant on Mr Cs father.
Our investigator looked at all of the evidence  provided and felt that Mr and Mrs Cs claim 
was related to a pre-existing medical condition of a close  relative.  The investigator said that 
Admirals policy excludes cover for claims in these circumstances. And so he didnt feel that 
this complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs C dont agree, so the case has been  passed to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to start by saying that Im very sorry for Mr and Mrs Cs loss. I appreciate this 
must have  been  a very difficult time for them. I can also see that their trip had been planned 
for some time and at great expense.   
Ref: DRN07622882Its clear that Mr and Mrs C feel very strongly  about this complaint and Admirals  decision not 
to pay their claim. They argue that although  atrial fibrillation was mentioned on Mr Cs 
fathers death certificate, it was not the cause of his death. They say that this was cited  as 
pneumonia and congestive  cardiac failure.  And that he hadnt been diagnosed with either  of 
these conditions when  they took out their insurance policy.
When considering  this complaint Ive given regard to the policy  wording as well as relevant 
industry guidelines, including the Insurance Conduct  of Business rules (ICOBS) 8.1.1R 
which say that an insurer should not unreasonably  reject a claim.
The Medical Declaration section of Admirals  policy wording states:
Medical conditions of other people  your trip depends upon
We will not pay any claim related to a pre-existing medical condition of other  people  your 
trip depends  upon, such as a close  relative, travel companion, close business 
associate or person you have arranged  to stay with, which they had at the start or renewal 
of your policy or when  you booked a trip (whichever is later).
You can make  a claim if you have to cancel or cut short your trip because  of their death,  
serious illness or serious injury, providing  its not related directly or indirectly to any pre-
existing medical condition (See section 2). 
Section 2 of the policy, Cancelling or cutting short your trip states  that: 
Reasons for cancelling or cutting short your  trip
We will provide this cover if you have to cancel  or cut short you trip for any of the
following reasons
 Death, illness,  injury  or complications  of pregnancy or childbirth:
the death, serious injury, serious illness  or complications of pregnancy  or childbirth
of you, your travel companion,  a close relative, a close business associate or anyone
outside your home  area you planned to stay with.
It goes on to say:
What is not covered
We will not pay any claim:
related to a pre-existing medical condition of other people your  trip depends upon, such 
as a close  relative,  travel companion, close business associate or person you have 
arranged to stay with, which they had at the start or renewal of your  policy  or when you 
booked a trip (whichever is later).
During the course of our investigation into this complaint Mr and Mrs C provided both our 
service and Admiral with a copy of Mr Cs fathers  death certificate,  and a medical  certificate 
from his GP.
The cause of death on the death  certificate  is recorded as I (a) Congestive Heart Failure  
and Pneumonia,  II Atrial Fibrillation  and Left Ventricular  Failure.  
Ref: DRN07622883The GPs medical certificate states that cause of death was congestive  cardiac  failure and 
pneumonia. It also advises that Mr Cs father Had atrial fibrillation since 2013.  This 
contributed to CCF. I understand CCF in this context to mean congestive cardiac failure. 
And an attached  discharge letter from the hospital  that treated Mr Cs father lists the same   
two causes of death  as are shown on the death certificate. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Cs argument that pneumonia was the primary cause of Mr Cs 
fathers death. But both the death  certificate and medical certificate  refer to his pre-existing  
condition of atrial fibrillation, and also link this to the cause of his death. So I dont think  I can 
reasonably conclude that Admiral has acted unfairly in saying  that it feels Mr Cs fathers 
death was related (directly  or indirectly)  to a pre-existing medical condition. 
Mr and Mrs C say that their trip did not depend on Mr Cs father as per Admirals  policy  
wording. Theyve  pointed  out that he wasnt going on the trip with them.  Nor was the purpose 
of their trip to visit or stay with him. However Admiral has explained that it feels the fact Mr 
and Mrs C felt it necessary to make  amendments to their holiday following his passing 
shows that their trip did depend upon  him. 
I know Mr and Mrs C dont agree with Admirals interpretation of the wording here. And I 
appreciate there is a degree of subjectivity. But I think Admirals  view is reasonable. The 
wording refers to a close relative as a distinct category, separate  to a travel companion, 
business associate or anyone the policyholder planned to stay with. I think  Mr and Mrs Cs 
plans did, to an extent,  depend on Mr Cs fathers health. So I dont  think Admiral has acted 
unfairly when its declined their claim on this basis. 
Mr and Mrs C have also pointed out that they werent asked for medical information about 
close relatives when  they took out this policy. Admiral  has confirmed that it doesnt ask for 
this information  if it is not insuring them  on the policy. Thats  not uncommon within the travel  
insurance industry. And I dont think that it would have  had an impact on this claim if it had 
because Admirals policy wording clearly states that it will not pay any claim relating  to the 
pre-existing condition of someone on whom the trip depends, such as a close relative. So 
again, I havent found that Admiral has treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly  here.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs C. I understand this trip was planned for a special 
occasion, and I do hope they enjoyed the portion of their holiday that they were able to 
attend. Whilst I do have  a lot of empathy  for the circumstances  surrounding  this complaint, 
for the reasons Ive outlined  above, I wont be asking Admiral to re-consider their claim.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 June  2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0762288