K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Provident Personal  Credit  Limited  (trading as Satsuma)  lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr M had seven loans with Satsuma between January 2016 and March 2017.  The amounts 
borrowed varied and were between £100  and £350, with repayments due over terms of 
between 13 weeks and one year.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld in part  in respect  
of the sixth and seventh loans. He thought the pattern of lending suggested Mr M was reliant  
on the loans and so that by loan six Satsuma ought  to have realised Mr M wasnt settling  the 
loans in a sustainable manner.
Satsuma disagreed; it didnt agree that the pattern of lending  indicated any difficulties as 
Mr M had made his payments on time. As no agreement was reached,  the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. As theres  been  no ongoing dispute about the first five loans, this 
decision is only about the loans still in dispute  the sixth and seventh  loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
 
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN00468192I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Satsuma has said it doesnt agree  that by the time of the sixth loan (which was approved in 
November 2016) there were signs Mr M was struggling to repay his loans in a way which 
was sustainable.  It has said it carried out credit history and other affordability checks  and 
that it applied  buffers  and safeguards to the income and expenditure information provided by 
Mr M. It also says his repayment history was unblemished up to April 2017.
Ive reviewed the information Satsuma obtained for the sixth and seventh loans. The 
information provided does not show that Satsuma actually applied  any buffers or 
safeguards to either of these loans. The income and expenditure information provided by 
Mr M does  not appear to have been modified at all. This could of course be reasonable if the 
information provided by Mr M was largely  accurate.
But I have some concerns  about the information Mr M provided for loans six and seven. For 
the majority of his loans, Mr M declared monthly income of around £1,200-£1,300 and 
monthly outgoings in the region of £700.  For loan six however, Mr M declared monthly 
income of £8,194 and outgoings  of just under £5,000  which included £1,800 of credit 
commitments. For loan seven, Mr Ms declared income returned to £1,300 and his total 
expenditure to £960. 
Given the significant fluctuations in Mr Ms income  and expenditure in a relatively short 
space of time, Id have  expected Satsuma  to ask Mr M further questions  about  the reasons  
for the differences  and Id have expected to see Satsuma ask him for some sort of proof of 
income. I have seen no evidence it took such steps.  Satsuma says it verified  Mr Ms income  
using credit tools, but Ive seen no evidence of this either. So I dont think  the checks 
Satsuma carried out for loans six and seven were proportionate.
Ref: DRN00468193Putting the above aside, I think Satsuma had seen enough anyway that it ought to have 
realised Mr M wasnt likely to have  been  settling his loans sustainably. 
Mr M had taken out six instalment loans in 11 months and wasnt  reducing his indebtedness; 
the sixth loan was the biggest  individual amount he borrowed  and loan seven increased his 
total borrowing  to £600. Mr M had also taken at least six payday loans from another  lender 
during the same period,  something Satsuma couldve  likely  established  had it carried  out 
proportionate checks. So it appears  Mr M was repeatedly relying on high-cost credit  to repay 
high-cost credit, which isnt a sustainable  situation. This also paints a picture of someone 
who wasnt likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in their income  but to meet an 
ongoing need.
Loans six and seven had terms of 12 and 10 months and I think  by approving  them Satsuma 
was also unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness  by allowing him to take expensive credit  
intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
In summary,  I think Satsumas decision to approved loans six and seven was unfair, 
because the pattern of lending leading up to loan six suggested Mr M wasnt in a position to 
repay these  loans in a sustainable manner. So Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint about these 
loans.
putting things right
Satsuma should  remove all interest  and charges applied to loans six (November 2016) and 
seven (March 2017)  from the outset and treat any repayments made as if they were paid 
towards the principal.  
This may still leave  a principal balance to be repaid. But if Mr M has already repaid  more 
than he borrowed,  Satsuma should refund the difference, adding 8% simple interest per year 
to this refund from the date of the overpayments to the date of settlement. 
Satsuma should  also remove these two loans from Mr Ms credit file (Satsuma may wait until 
Mr M has repaid the principal before doing this if it wishes).
HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must give 
Mr M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. Provident Personal Credit  Limited  must  put things right by 
taking the steps  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0046819