K820x#14complaint
Mrs J has complained about the increase  in the amount charged by AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited for her private medical  insurance policy.
background
Mrs J had held the policy for a number of years. She complained  to AXA PPP about the 
increasing cost. She said that following the 2019  renewal she was paying  over £500 a month  
which she considered  to be excessive. She pointed out that she had suffered from cancer 
and this meant she couldnt  transfer  to another insurance provider  without losing cover  for 
her condition.
AXA PPP didnt uphold her complaint.  It said it had calculated  her premium correctly  and 
explained the factors which it took into account.
Mrs J was unhappy at AXA PPPs response. She referred her complaint  to us. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She was satisfied 
that AXA PPP had calculated Mrs Js premium accurately and fairly.
Mrs J didnt accept the adjudicators findings. She pointed to AXA PPPs marketing  material 
which gave an indicative quote of only £86 a month for the cost of private  medical cover for a 
55 year old. She questioned why her premium was so much higher and considered she was 
being punished for her loyalty.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why. 
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided  it exercises this judgement  fairly and consistently, in accordance  with its 
internal guidelines, it is a matter in which we wouldnt normally interfere.
AXA PPP has explained  to Mrs J the factors it takes  into account in setting  premiums.  These  
do not include her individual claims and, unlike many private medical insurance policies, her 
policy has no form of no claims discount  scheme.  Im satisfied that AXA PPP has 
adequately described to Mrs J the factors behind her increase in premium.
AXA PPP has provided us with a breakdown showing  how these factors have  contributed to 
the increase in her premium since 2016.  I cant share this information with Mrs J because  it 
is commercially sensitive.  However, I can assure her that I have checked it and am satisfied 
that AXA PPP has calculated  her premium accurately and fairly.  She has been charged the 
same amount as anyone  else would have been charged in her situation. 
Mrs J has drawn  attention to the much cheaper indicative quote given in AXA PPPs 
marketing material. AXA PPP has explained that this quote was for a different policy; that it 
had an excess (which  Mrs J doesnt have);  that it was for someone four years younger than 
Ref: DRN09789482Mrs J; and that it was two years out of date. It has also explained that the quote was for a 
new customer and so would have excluded cover for pre-existing conditions. I consider  that 
AXA PPPs explanation is reasonable In particular, I would expect that a new customer  aged  
over 50 would be charged less for their cover  than a longstanding customer  of the same age 
who was renewing  their cover because  the former would represent less of a risk due to the 
fact that pre-existing  conditions would be excluded. I therefore  dont think that the cheaper  
indicative quote means Mrs J is being charged an unfair premium  for her cover.
I sympathise with Mrs J over the fact that her policy has become so expensive. I recognise  
that she feels trapped with AXA PPP because she doesnt want to lose cover  for her existing 
conditions. However,  Im satisfied that AXA PPP has treated her fairly and I cant  reasonably 
tell it that it must reduce  her premium.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019. 
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0978948