K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains HSBC  Bank Plc hasnt paid him the correct amount of interest. 
background
Mr D opened a regular  savers account  online in June  2017. The account  required him to pay 
a regular amount  each  month for one year. Mr D opted to set up a regular payment for the 
maximum amount of £250 per month.  The interest rate on the account was advertised  as 
5%. 
Over the course of the year Mr D deposited  additional money into the account on top of his 
regular £250 payment.  For the majority of the year he held a balance  in excess  of £120,000 
in the account.  When  the account matured in June 2018, HSBC  paid £108.76  in interest.   
Mr D complained because  he said he was expecting to receive around £4,700 in interest. 
HSBC said the 5% interest  was only payable on the regular payments into the account   so 
only on a maximum balance  of £3,000.  It said interest on any overpayments that Mr D had 
made was calculated at the current flexible saver rate of 0.10%. 
Mr D provided  several different documents, including  his account statements which he said 
all showed the interest  rate was 5% for the entire balance. He said none of the documents  
he received said the 5% was limited to £3,000 only. He said he also called HSBC  in 
September 2017 and was told he was receiving  5% interest on the whole  balance.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He thought HSBC had made  it 
clear during  the online application process  and in the terms and conditions (which were  later 
posted to him) that the account  only paid 5% on £3,000. He said although Mr D had been  
able to deposit more than £3,000, HSBC had still paid him interest  on that balance (at a 
lower rate). Lastly, he explained that HSBCs internal notes for the call in September 2017  
showed it had told him he could  only hold £3,000  in the account.  He said this was supported 
by the fact HSBC  withdrew the excess out of his account the same  day.
Mr D didnt agree. In summary he said:
He has provided  five separate pieces of evidence  backing up that the account paid 
5% interest on the whole balance but HSBC  hasnt  been  able to provide anything  
persuasive to back up their side. 
He wasnt given  any option to read the terms and conditions  during the application 
process, nor were  they sent to him in the post afterwards. 
If HSBC had intended to limit it to £3,000 it should have prevented him from being 
able to deposit more money  into the account. 
HSBC made no attempt to contact  him to tell him hed paid more than the £3,000  and 
during a telephone call they did confirm he was getting 5% on the whole balance.
HSBCs notes of the call from September  2017 arent factually accurate. Its very 
suspicious they can no longer produce the call recording. He wasnt  told they needed 
to withdraw the excess out of the account.  When he found  out this had been done he 
was upset but as he was able to transfer it back  in he chose not to pursue a 
complaint at that time.  The advisor  was aware  he thought he was getting 5% on the 
whole balance and didnt correct him. 
The case  has been passed to me for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN00202662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr D feel very strongly about  whats happened. And I agree with him that HSBC has 
 in part - been inconsistent  and unclear  about how this account should be managed. 
But despite  that, I dont think HSBC needs  to pay him 5% interest on the entire balance of 
the account. Ill explain why. 
Mr D applied for this account online. Ive seen screenshots of what  Mr D is likely to have 
seen at the point of application. The website listed key information  about the account prior to 
applying. I think it was made clear that the account would only pay 5% interest on balances 
up to £3,000. And I think its more likely than not Mr D would have seen this prior to applying. 
I say this because  the account paid different amounts depending on the type of current  
account you hold with HSBC. To know that he was eligible for 5% (rather  than a different 
rate) he would have  had to review the key information. Mr D also set up the maximum 
allowable regular  payment of £250 per month to go into the account. So he must  have read 
the key features of the account as this too sets out the maximum and minimum regular 
payments that need to be set up. So on balance, I think its more likely  Mr D did review the 
key information  about the account and ought to have been  aware  it only paid 5% interest on 
the first £3,000.  
Mr D says he was told in a telephone  call he was getting 5% interest on the whole balance of 
his account (including anything above  £3,000). Its disappointing the recording of the call 
cant be located. But HSBC has provided notes the advisor made at the time of what  was 
discussed. I realise Mr D disagrees with some of whats written  in them, but I have found  
them to be quite persuasive. This is because some of what the advisor wrote at the time is 
supported by what actually did happen   and Mr D also agrees that some of the notes do 
match up to what he remembers of the call. 
The notes say that Mr D was told he could only hold £3,000 in the account and because he 
had more than this, the excess would  be withdrawn.  I can see this is what  happened that 
day but Mr D transferred it straight  back again.  Mr D says he wasnt  told this during the call 
and he only discovered  what  had happened later that day. He says the advisor must have 
fabricated the notes to make it look like he was aware. But Ive not seen anything to make  
me think thats likely.  So on balance, I dont think Mr D was told he was getting 5% on 
everything above £3,000. 
I do however think that HSBC has made  some mistakes in the way its handled  Mr Ds 
account. The online application process  doesnt  say that you can deposit more than £3,000 
 even though the account does appear to allow it. The terms and conditions  that were  later 
posted say additional deposits  will attract interest  at the current  flexible saver  rate. And this 
is what Mr D got so HSBC has applied that interest correctly. 
But when Mr D called HSBC in September 2017,  it told him additional deposits werent 
allowed and transferred the excess out of the account. This wasnt  fair given HSBC  does  
seem to allow additional deposits  into this type of account. But as Mr D was able to transfer  
the money back the same day, he hasnt  suffered any financial loss or material 
inconvenience as a result  of HSBCs  mistake. 
Ref: DRN00202663Mr D has also provided several  different documents which dont specify that 5% interest is 
only paid on balances up to £3,000.  Whilst I think it would be helpful if this was clearer,  
I think Mr D ought to have  been reasonably aware anyway  for the reasons Ive already 
explained - that he would only get 5% on £3,000.
Lastly, even if I agreed with Mr D that HSBC had misled him about  the interest rate  which  I 
dont  the fair and reasonable remedy wouldnt be to pay him 5% interest  anyway because  
that wouldnt be his loss. Instead,  Id need to consider  what Mr D would have done  differently 
had he known the true position. Interest rates on instant access savings accounts - which 
are what  he appears to have needed  - are all significantly lower than 5% (most pay less than 
1%). So Mr D would never have been  able to earn 5% interest  in a similar account. And its 
also for this reason (combined with everything else Ive said) that I think  Mr D ought to have 
been aware he wasnt receiving 5% interest on the entire balance of the account.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0020266