complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Citifinancial Europe  Limited (Citifiancial)  mis-sold them a PPI 
policy. Mr and Mrs M say the policy was sold to them when they took out a mortgage with 
Citifinancial in 1986.
Citifinancial upheld Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Based on the documents Mr and Mrs M had 
been able to provide about  PPI, Citifinancial agreed  to repay them their PPI premiums from 
February 1997 to June 1998.  Mr and Mrs M didnt accept this offer of settlement.
background
Mr and Mrs M say they took out their mortgage with Citifinancial in 1986, having previously 
taken out a mortgage and PPI with another provider in the early 80s. Ill call that provider, 
Provider 1. They said in 1986, they took out house insurance and PPI as a complete package 
alongside their new Citifinancial  mortgage.
Citifinancial didnt initially uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint as they couldnt locate any 
records relating to them. Citifinancial then upheld  their complaint and agreed to repay
Mr and Mrs M the PPI premiums they had paid from May 1997 until June 1998.  Citifinancial 
concluded that the evidence  showed  that Mr and Mrs M only had PPI for this period.
Mr and Mrs M were  then able to produce  a letter from February 1997 from Citifinancial to 
them. This letter referred to existing PPI. On that basis Citifiancial agreed to repay their 
premiums from February 1997  (the date of the letter) to June 1998.
Our adjudicator concluded that Citifinancials offer of compensation was in line with this 
services general approach to PPI compensation. Mr and Mrs M remained of the view that as 
they took out PPI when they took out their mortgage in 1986, the premiums  should be repaid 
from then.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in February 2020. I said I was 
minded to uphold  it and to order Citifinancial to put things right by refunding the premiums with 
interest from June 1986 until June 1998  inclusive. I gave Mr and Mrs M and Citifinancial an 
opportunity to provide any further  information  they wanted me to consider, before I issued a 
final decision. Neither Mr and Mrs M, nor Citifinancial have sent in any further information.
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint comes back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As theres  no new information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart  from my 
provisional decision. So, for the reasons set out in that decision,  I am upholding 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill repeat those reasons here.
Citifinancial upheld Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the mis-sale of PPI. The issue left for me 
to consider is whether  the proposed offer of settlement is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN0376310We asked Mr and Mrs M whether they had any documentation, which could help establish 
when they took out PPI. Understandably, they didnt have much going back to 1986. 
Similarly, its understandable that Citifinancial no longer holds Mr and Mrs Ms records. 
Banks often only keep records for six years  and Mr and Mrs Ms Citifinancial mortgage 
ended, Mr and Mrs M say, in 1998.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory here, Ive made a decision on 
what I think is most  likely to have happened  based  on whats  available.
Initially Citifinancial agreed to compensate Mr and Mrs M from May 1997. This was because 
Mr and Mrs M were  able to produce  a letter from May 1997 relating to PPI. Mr and Mrs M 
were then able to produce a letter from February 1997, which referred to their existing PPI. 
Citifinancial then agreed to compensate them from this date. Given Citifinancial has no 
records; understandably it has relied on the documentation provided by Mr and Mrs M to 
show they had PPI.
I asked Mr and Mrs M whether they had any other old paperwork that may assist  to show  
they had PPI continuously  alongside their mortgages. They  said they had mortgage  
endowment documents starting in December 1981  and June 1986. They said they were 
taken out with their first mortgage and then alongside the mortgage  they took out with 
Citifinancial. I think these  documents  provide a fair indication of the start dates of
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgages.
Mr and Mrs M have  recently provided a copy of a letter from Provider  1. This shows by 
reference to their ages  when they took out PPI with that Provider. According to their dates of 
birth, the date of sale corresponds  with what theyve told us about when they took out their 
first mortgage  and PPI.
Mr and Mrs M have  also provided a copy of a home insurance renewal letter  from Citifinancial 
from 1994. They say they had home and PPI insurance through  Citifinancial the whole time 
they had their mortgage with it.
Mr and Mrs M have  been clear throughout in their recount of events. The historic paperwork 
they have been able to turn up lends support to what  theyve told us. Obviously, given how 
much time has passed, theres not much paperwork left available. But, based on what  I have 
seen, and what Mr and Mrs M have said consistently throughout, I find it plausible and 
credible that they likely  did take out PPI when they took out their mortgage  with Citifiancial and 
they kept this PPI running until they ended  their mortgage with Citifinancial in
1998. I think it likely  that Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI around the same time as they took 
out the new endowment policy, which was June 1986.
Ref: DRN0376310K821x#15I dont know when  their mortgage  ended. Citifinancial has said we should  treat June 1998 
as the end date.  Mr and Mrs M say their mortgage possibly ended around November 1998. 
Ive proceeded  on the basis that Citifinancials proposal as to the end date is not 
unreasonable based on what Ive seen.
In those circumstances, I consider it fair that Citifinancial pay Mr and Mrs M the 
premiums they paid, plus interest, from June 1986  until June 1998 inclusive.
what the business should do to put things right
Citifinancial should  put Mr and Mrs M in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  
taken out PPI. The policy  should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already. 
Proceeding on the basis that Mr and Mrs M paid PPI premiums  from June 1986 until 
June 1998 inclusive, Citifinancial should:
 Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount  they paid each month for the PPI.
 Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. 
The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
 If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Citifinancial can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes  them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires Citifinancial to take off tax from this interest. 
Citifinancial must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if 
they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and order Citifinancial Europe Limited to put things right 
by calculating redress in the manner I have  set out.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0376310