K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that his mortgagee Bank  of Scotland  plc:
1.modified his mortgage package when the term hadnt expired;
2.failed to restore his cheque facility after he cleared his mortgage  arrears;
3.failed to give him a lower interest  rate.
He wants BoS to lower  his interest  rate to 2% or 1.5%.
background
In 1999 Mr S took a repayment mortgage with BoS for a term of 25 years.  The package,  
which is no longer  available, included a borrowing facility of about £45,000 with a cheque 
book to use for repairs and other needs  he might  have during the life of the mortgage.
Some years  later he had financial problems and went into arrears.  BoS removed his cheque 
facility. He says BoS told him it would be restored when he cleared the arrears, and that it 
gave the same answer when he sought  to take interest rate products.
Mr S says he cleared  the arrears and asked BoS to reinstate his cheque  facility. But BoS 
refused. It said his mortgage was an old mortgage package which was no longer in force.
Then he asked BoS to change his interest  rate to the then current  low rates  of 2-2.5% which  
were available. He no longer  had any arrears to prevent BoS from changing  his interest rate 
which was very high. He says BoS accepted but didnt change his interest  rate until later.
Mr S says BoS  refusal to restore  his cheque facility and change  his interest rate as 
promised caused  a lot of stress and caused  him to incur more  arrears. He had to do major 
repairs to the property and rebuild the garage. BoS refusal to restore  his cheque facility  
forced him to use his repayment money to undertake the repairs  and thus start accruing 
arrears.
Mr S complained to BoS. It issued a final response  dated 3 July 2018.  It said that on 
20 July 2016,  Mr S had spoken to BoS about  the possibility of new rates. He was told that a 
specialist remortgage would be required,  and the information needed  was confirmed. 
Whilst an application wasnt commenced at this time, BoS agreed that the conversation did 
entail a discussion of a rate, and this was confirmed during the call as being  3.99%, later 
corrected during the same call to 4.19%. During  this call Mr S confirmed that he felt the rate 
offered was too high and that he would shop around.
BoS said that on 29 July 2016  Mr S had requested to proceed  with a specialist remortgage 
and a telephone appointment had been  made for 2 August 2016. The team  had attempted to 
call Mr S but there was no answer. Further attempts had been  made  on 9 and 15 August 
2016. These call attempts were also unsuccessful.
 
On 8, 11 and 16 August  Mr S had contacted BoS to discuss the refund of an overpayment  
made when  he cleared  the arrears, and to ensure his mortgage payment was recalculated.
On 22 September  he had contacted BoS again,  but this was also in relation to the 
recalculation of the payment.
Ref: DRN04804942On this information BoS was unable to agree that Mr S had proceeded with an application 
for a new rate. Nor were  there such rates available as he had indicated.
BoS said the cheque facility had been removed on 31 October 2009 because the direct debit 
had been cancelled. The terms and conditions required  that the monthly payment be made 
by direct debit. 
BoS had agreed  in March 2010 to reinstate  the facility if Mr S made good a missed payment 
and set up a direct debit.  An arrangement was put in place for repayment of the arrears  and 
BoS diarised the account until December 2010  so that it could re-instate the facility. When 
Mr Ss account was reviewed in December 2010 the mortgage was still in arrears so the 
cheque facility wasnt reinstated.
Following payment of the arrears in July 2016  Mr S may have been  eligible for the cheque 
faculty to be reinstated, but the mortgage account still didnt have a direct  debit  and Mr S 
didnt request this. It wasnt an operation which would happen automatically. On 18 May and 
26 October 2017 charging orders were registered against the property. These  breached the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage,  meaning Mr S didnt qualify  for the cheque  facility.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this and brought his complaint to this service, but our investigator 
didnt recommend it be upheld.
She said shed listened  to the phone call and the interest rates discussed were  3.99% and 
then 4.19%. Mr S had said this was too high and he would shop around first. He did make an 
appointment to proceed with a re-mortgage  on 2 August 2016 and BoS attempted to contact 
him at this time but despite further attempts on 9 and 15 August this didn't  happen  and the 
application wasn't completed.
The investigator couldnt see that there was an interest rate available  in the range Mr S had 
suggested. That said, an interest rate change might still be possible but Mr S would need  to 
go through the application for a remortgage  to see if his monthly  payments could be lowered 
at all.
The investigator said the cheque facility had been removed in October 2009. The reason for 
this was that the direct debit for Mr Ss mortgage  payments had been cancelled. And as it 
was a requirement of his mortgage to pay by direct debit, this resulted in a default to the 
mortgage being recorded. This requirement was detailed in the mortgage terms and 
conditions. 
Mr Ss account continued to be in arrears throughout 2010  and this would also mean that a 
default on his mortgage was recorded which was also in the terms and conditions  of the 
mortgage. It may have  been possible for the cheque facility to have been reinstated  in 2016 
after Mr S cleared the arrears but there  was still no direct debit set up for the monthly 
mortgage payments.  Then the charging orders were registered from May 2017.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. He said the rate 
which he wanted and which  was available at that time was below 2%, not 4%. He wanted  to 
remortgage with another lender but BoS asked him to stay and remortgage  with it at a rate 
that was below 2%. He accepted but BoS didnt honour its promise. 
Ref: DRN04804943Once hed paid off his arrears the cheque  facility was to be re-opened and he was going to 
use it as his direct debit account.  Because this account wasnt  reopened his new direct  debit  
wasnt active and that was the cause  of the problems  hed encountered and was still 
encountering.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S makes  three complaints which I will deal with following the numbering  in the complaint 
section above.
1.I take this to mean that when Mr S originally took out his mortgage,  it included the 
cheque facility. And his case is that BoS isnt entitled to remove that facility while the 
mortgage is still in force.  But that assumes the repayments are kept up. The problem  
with Mr Ss argument  was the arrears. 
Section 6.1 of the terms and conditions  says:
None of the underpayment, payment holiday or chequebook facility options are 
available to you at any time whilst an event of default is continuing  under the flexible 
options agreement  or the mortgage agreement.
Section 7.3 of the terms and conditions  says:
Where an event of default occurs  we will reduce or withdraw the credit limit. We also 
have the right to reduce or withdraw  the credit limit where your and/or the owners and/or 
any guarantors financial circumstances change or we obtain adverse information about  
you, the owner or a guarantor from a credit reference agency or from any fraud 
prevention register  and we consider that the credit limit should be reduced or withdrawn 
in order to protect our interests under the flexible  options agreement.
The effect of these provisions is that BoS was entitled to remove the facility before  the 
term expired if there was an event of default.
2.All that the terms say is that where  there is an event  of default, BoS will withdraw  the 
credit limit. There  is no requirement  for it to be restored automatically.  BoS  procedure is 
to consider this if the customer requests reinstatement but there is no obligation to 
reinstate. There was a possible  period of nine months from July 2016 but there  was still 
no direct  debit in place, and then the charging  orders were  registered. 
3.Mr S didnt  apply for a lower interest rate. A telephone appointment was made for 
2 August 2016. BoS rang Mr S but there  was no answer. BoS tried again on 9 and 15 
August 2016.  These call attempts were also unsuccessful. When  he set up his complaint 
to us Mr S said that BoS refused to change the rate in its letter of 3 July 2018. But thats 
not what the letter says. It says that during the call about rates Mr S confirmed  that he 
felt the rate offered  was too high and that he would shop around. Ive listened  to the 
recording of that call and this is correct.
Ref: DRN04804944As the investigator  pointed out, its open  to Mr S to apply for a lower  rate but hed need to go 
through an internal remortgage  because  his type of account is no longer available. However 
I cant tell BoS what  rates  to offer. Thats a matter for its commercial judgment.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0480494