K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc failed to process his chargeback  claim in time.
background
Mr M bought  flights for just over £2,100 with a company I will call M in July 2017. M went  
bust in October  2017 and Mr M says he contacted HSBC to try and get his money back. He 
says he was advised to complete an online form on HSBCs website, which he did and then 
received a letter asking him to complete a form which  again  he did. Mr M says he made a 
number of calls about his claim and in or around  October 2018  he attended a HSBC  branch 
where a chargeback claim was processed. He says he then received his money back  before 
HSBC then took the money out of his account, telling him that the chargeback  claim had 
been made too late.
HSBC says the chargeback was made outside  the scheme provider rules and says it has no 
record of Mr M contacting it until October 2018.  It says its offered Mr M £250  compensation  
for an e-mail issue  but says it hasnt made a mistake.
Mr M brought his complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold  it. The investigator 
thought HSBC didnt set the chargeback rules and could only follow the time limits set. She 
thought that there wasnt any evidence on HSBCs records  that any contact had been made 
until October 2018 and outside of the time limits.  And so HSBC hadnt made a mistake.
Mr M didnt  accept that view and would like his money back. He has provided a copy of the 
letter he says was sent to him by HSBC about this matter.
The investigator reconsidered her view and thought the letter was about a travel insurance 
claim and not a chargeback.
I asked both sides for further information  following Mr Ms request for an ombudsmans 
decision. And in summary Mr M told me that he submitted one form and questions why he 
received his money back only for it to be taken back. HSBC told me that its manger followed 
the usual chargeback procedure and on investigation then debited the money from Mr Ms 
account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for largely the same  reasons. I realise Mr M will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels  about  whats  happened 
and that he has lost a significant  amount of money following Ms collapse.
Im satisfied that HSBC  has checked  its records and cant find any contact  between  it and Mr 
M until October 2018 about a chargeback. I can also see that Mr M hasnt been able to 
provide any telephone records  of such contact. And the only letter that Mr M has been able 
to provide is the letter dated October  2017 which he says he completed. So I think on 
balance that Mr M did make an application  for his money back  following Ms collapse.  But I 
think he made a claim to HSBCs travel insurance department and that is why he received 
the letter in October  2017 from HSBCs  travel  insurance department.
I also think on balance that Mr M didnt make a chargeback claim. But thought that by 
submitting the information that he did, that would allow HSBC to process  a refund under 
Ref: DRN08428942whichever method it could. So I dont  think  HSBC  made a mistake  by not making  a 
chargeback in circumstances where  I dont think it was specifically asked to do so. And I 
think its lack of records about a chargeback provides evidence that one was not made or 
requested.
I appreciate Mr M questions why in October 2018 he received his money back. But I dont 
think HSBC made a mistake by doing so or that by doing so it accepted a mistake  had been  
made. I think  in circumstances where a chargeback is made a bank will normally  refund  the 
money until a chargeback  decision is made.  And debit  the money if it is decided for whatever 
reason such as a time limit problem  that a chargeback will not be made or proceeded with.
Overall I think  on balance  that as Mr M has accepted  that he submitted one form about a 
refund concerning M that was about a travel insurance claim and not a chargeback.  So I 
dont think HSBC acted  unfairly or made  a mistake by not making a chargeback. I dont know 
if Mr M ever held travel insurance with HSBC. But I think his claim was directed to that 
department and that the letter he received I think was clear that was the department that was 
dealing with it. 
HSBC accept making a mistake with an e-mail address and has offered £250  compensation.  
It of course remains open to Mr M to accept that offer if he wishes.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0842894