K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that Brewin Dolphin Limited  (Brewin) delayed a transfer of his Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) investments  and non-ISA investments, thereby breaching the service 
he was entitled  to and causing  him a financial  loss from lost trading opportunity. He also 
says he was wrongly advised  by Brewin that he could not trade during the transfer  process.
background
A summary  of key events is as follows:
Mr M says his transfer instruction was given by telephone to Brewin  on 4 May 2018  
he also refers to giving  a written instruction on 11 May 2018. Brewin  says his 
instruction was received on 11 May 2018. The transfer mainly  related to an ISA 
portfolio and a non ISA portfolio.
Mr M says Brewin informed him that it received the transferee firms documentation 
on 18 May. Brewin says it did not give such information and that the transferee firms 
documentation was dated 18 May but received by Brewin on 23 May.  
With regards to the ISA portfolio, Brewin says initial checks  were  completed by 30 
May and by 8 June  it had completed verifications and calculations and had sent a 
valuation statement to the transferee firm. It says it chased for a response on 14 
June and on 19 June  the transferee  firm responded to say it had just received Mr Ms 
authorisation and to propose transfer and settlement dates of 27 and 29 June. 
Transfer of the UK holdings  in the ISA was completed on 29 June. It says transfer  of 
US holdings in the ISA was delayed between Mr M and the transferee  firm due to 
their late return  of the relevant W8BEN US tax form. Brewin  says it chased  after this 
on 8 and 26 June  and on 6 and 10 July, before  the transferee  firm responded on 12 
July to say the form was ready  and to propose  transfer and settlement dates of 18 
and 20 July. It says most of the transfer was completed on these dates, with the 
transfer of an additional  US holding sent by 24 July.
With regards to the non ISA portfolio,  Brewin says the transferee firm sent 
authorisation on 21 June, there was insufficient money in the main fund to cover the 
transfer fee but on 10 July its Divisional  Director waived the transfer fee, the 
transferee firm was sent a valuation statement on 11 July, Brewin chased for a 
response on 16 July and on 19 July the transferee firm replied  and proposed transfer 
and settlement dates  of 24 and 30 July (which is when the transfer was completed).
Brewin says it cannot find telephone  recording evidence of it telling Mr M he could 
not trade during the transfer process.  It has telephone recording evidence,  of a 
telephone conversation  with Mr M on 12 July, in which he was told that he could  have 
traded during the process.  It considers that Mr Ms allegation is not about  being 
misled at the outset  but about  not being  told he could trade at the outset. However, it 
considers that if Mr M had raised an enquiry about  trading at the outset it would have 
given him the same  guidance it gave him on 12 July. Brewin  also says a transfer can 
take up to 30 working days, depending on holdings held within  a portfolio.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and concluded  that it should not be 
upheld. He noted that though the transfers took longer than Mr M had expected, the delay 
was not Brewins  fault and was caused mainly between Mr M and the transferee firm. He 
also said he could see nothing to indicate that Brewin was required to remind  Mr M that he 
could continue to trade  during the transfer process  or that Mr M made it aware  of his desire 
to trade  and was told that he could not.
Ref: DRN00288592Mr M disagreed with this outcome. He clarified that his claim for financial loss relates  only to 
four specific  UK holdings  in his ISA portfolio, so explanations about  the delays in transferring 
the US holdings in the ISA portfolio and the non ISA portfolio are irrelevant. With regards to 
the transfer of the UK holdings in the ISA portfolio, he asserts  that completion would not 
have been delayed if Brewin had begun processing  the transfer on 11 May when he gave his 
written instruction. He also maintains that Brewin misinformed him about not being able to 
trade during the transfer and that the conversation on 12 July was too late as he had missed 
the relevant trading opportunity by then.  He says Brewin was obliged  to advise him of his 
right to continue trading  during the transfer  process.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the 
conclusion that the complaint is not upheld.
By Mr Ms account,  the transfers  of his ISAs US holdings and his non ISA holdings are 
irrelevant to his complaint.  For the sake of completeness, I consider that the delay in 
transferring the ISAs  US holdings  appears to have been unrelated  to Brewin.  I do not have 
enough evidence  to comment on what happened  between Mr M and the transferee firm in 
this respect, but there is sufficient evidence to conclude  that Brewin was remote to the 
matter, that it chased for progress in the matter and that it duly completed the transfer after 
the transferee firm was ready to do so. I consider that a similar conclusion, based  on 
available evidence, applies to the transfer  of the non ISA holdings.
Mr M says his complaint  is about  the transfer of his ISAs UK holdings  and about being 
misled with regards to trading during the transfer.
Evidence suggests that Brewins transfer  service usually took 30 working days.  Starting from 
11 May, evidence also shows that by 8 June Brewin had completed its main part of the 
overall process (for the ISAs UK holdings) and had sent a valuation statement to the 
transferee firm. This took place within the relevant 30 days.  
If Mr M argues that Brewins accountability  for the duration of the process  covers  the entire  
process  up to completion  I am not persuaded to agree, given the circumstances in his 
case. I do not consider it fair to hold it responsible for events or delays after 8 June and over 
which it had no control.  It also appears  to be arguable that the completion  that happened  on 
29 June was not too far beyond 30 working days (from 11 May). 
If Mr M argues that Brewin should have completed its part of the process  earlier than 8 June, 
I have not seen enough evidence to agree. It was or would have  been  in his interest for 
Brewin to properly conduct its checks, verifications and calculations and these are the tasks 
it appears to have done and completed by 8 June. It is noted  that Brewin appears to have  
received the transferee firms documentation on 23 May, so it completed its checks roughly 
over a fortnight.  Overall, I am not persuaded that Brewin unduly delayed  the transfer.
The above  conclusion negates Mr Ms claim for compensation  for financial loss. Any such 
alleged loss does  not fall to Brewins liability. Furthermore, there appears to be a lack of 
evidence to show that the alleged lost trading opportunity was certainly,  or at least probably,  
intended at the outset  of or early  in the transfer  process and was declared  to Brewin. Neither  
Ref: DRN00288593appears to be the case and this service would not normally consider compensation for 
alleged lost trading opportunity without such evidence.
Another factor that negates the claim for compensation is the lack of evidence  of Mr M being 
told, by Brewin,  that he could  not trade during  the transfer. I note his insistence that he was 
told this, but there appears to be no independent  or supporting  evidence  of this. In contrast, 
both parties agree about the telephone  conversation on 12 July, in which Brewin  told Mr M 
he could have traded  during the transfer process.  It would  appear unlikely for it to have said 
this on 12 July but said something  different  earlier. As I said above, there  is a lack of 
evidence that Mr M declared his intention to trade to Brewin  at the outset (or early in the 
transfer) and I have  not seen evidence that it was obliged to give him unprompted or 
unsolicited advice about such trading.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 27 December 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0028859