K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland plc mis-sold his payment protection insurance  (PPI) in 
connection with his mortgage.
background
In 1999 Mr P took out a mortgage with Halifax - which later became part of Bank of Scotland 
 during a meeting at one of its branches. At the same time Mr P took out PPI to cover  his 
income and protect  his mortgage payments in the event he couldnt work through  accident,  
sickness or if he lost his job.
The policy cost £58.50 a month and it provided  a benefit to approximately match  Mr Ps 
monthly mortgage payment of £900  per month.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
Mr Ps mortgage and the PPI policy ended in 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. The adjudicator said the evidence  showed 
that Mr P chose to take out the PPI and there  was nothing to indicate hed lost out as a 
result.
Mr P disagrees so the complaint  comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Bank of Scotland says this was an advised  sale. So it not only had to provide Mr P with 
enough information about the policy so he could make an informed decision about it. It also 
had to ensure  the policy was right or suitable for his based on his needs  and circumstances 
at the time. Ive taken this into account  in my consideration of the case.
This isnt an easy complaint to decide.  There is limited evidence  available  from the time of 
the sale, around 20 years ago. So, I must  carefully  weigh  up what  is available  to me when  
reaching my decision.
did Bank of Scotland make it clear to Mr P that he had a choice about  PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in March 1999.  Both Bank of Scotland and Mr P say it was sold in a 
branch. I dont know what Bank of Scotland said to Mr P and I have no application form or 
credit agreement. I do however have a letter accepting Mr Ps application  for the PPI and 
welcoming him to his PPI cover.   
I accept it is possible Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr P a choice about taking PPI. I also 
accept it is possible Bank  of Scotland gave him the impression he had to take it out. But it 
seems more likely  Bank of Scotland gave Mr P the opportunity  to take out the policy  or 
Ref: DRN00842652decline it as part of his mortgage application, and that he chose to take it out, but has simply 
forgotten in the years  that have now elapsed. I say this because  this service has no 
evidence of Bank of Scotland  systemically  telling consumers they had to have PPI at this 
time. Mr Ps acceptance letter for his policy implies that he applied for it rather than was told 
he had to have  it. And had he chosen not to purchase PPI, or had it been added to his 
account without  either  his knowledge or consent,  I wouldve expected him to query  or 
challenge this shortly afterwards, especially as I think its likely that the PPI cost made  his 
monthly repayments shown on their statements  nearly  £60 higher than the monthly cost of 
the advance he would  have seen in his loan offer. 
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr Ps complaint) it is more likely than 
not Bank of Scotland presented the policy to Mr P as compulsory or that it didnt tell him 
about the policy at all.
did things  happen  as they should have done  was Mr P properly advised and 
informed?
if not  has Mr P lost out?
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr P. I also 
dont know what information Mr P was given about  the PPI, for example, whether he was 
told about the significant exclusions and limitations  of cover.  I find it unlikely Mr P agreed to 
take the cover out without knowing anything about it, but I dont know if he received 
everything he needed to know to allow him to make  an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when 
Bank of Scotland recommended to Mr P that he take out PPI. I accept Mr P may not have 
been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr P has lost out as a result. I say this 
because, given Mr Ps circumstances and needs  at the time,  I think the policy  cover  was 
suitable for him. And I find it unlikely  that Mr P would  have acted differently and not gone 
ahead with the cover if Bank of Scotland had given him more  information. My reasons are as 
follows:
Mr P was eligible  for the cover and all its benefits
Mr P was working and in good  health  at the time, so it doesnt  appear he would have 
been affected by any of the key exclusions / limitations of the cover such  as existing 
medical condition  exclusions or unusual employment terms. I note that Mr P was self 
employed, but the self employed  were  covered by the policy  and in my view the 
terms for self employed workers making  a claim were not onerous or unreasonable. 
Mr P was buying the house on his own. I note that he had savings that could have 
covered his payments for up to 6 months  if he became sick or lost his job. But the 
policy would have  paid out for up to 12 months for each claim and enabled him to 
keep his savings  for other things. So I think Mr P had a need for cover  and that it 
would have been useful to him if Mr P found  he was unable  to work. It could have 
helped him financially  at what would be a difficult time - it could have helped him 
protect his home.
I find it unlikely Mr P would have agreed to something without having some 
understanding of the cost and I note that the cost is shown clearly  on the PPI 
welcome letter. And I think its unlikely he would have declined it solely on the basis  
of its cost had it been made clearer to him. Ive already said he had a need  for it and 
Ref: DRN00842653at approximately  £60 per month (added to a £900 per month mortgage) it appears to 
have been affordable.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
P may not have been treated fairly and reasonably by Bank of Scotland  in its dealings  with 
him, I find hes not lost out. This is because,  on balance, for the reasons Ive detailed  above, 
I think Mr P would have been  in the same position if Bank of Scotland had done  more and 
properly advised  and informed him - I think he would have still taken out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr P has not lost out as a result  of taking out 
PPI with his mortgage,  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0084265