K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that a used car he acquired  via a hire purchase  agreement with Startline 
Motor Finance Limited wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
background
In August  2017  Mr O acquired a used car via a three  year hire purchase agreement  with 
Startline that was arranged by a broker. At the point of sale the car was just under seven 
years old and had a mileage 87,000.
Within a few days  of acquiring the car Mr O complained  to the broker  that the Engine  
Management Light  (EML) had illuminated  on the dashboard  and that hed experienced the 
car shaking and the engine making noises while the car was running. At that time Mr O said 
he wanted to cancel the agreement and return the car.
The broker  liaised with the dealership who said it would  be happy for Mr O to arrange to 
have the car inspected  at a garage local to him and that it would cover the cost of any 
repairs.
Mr O told the broker  that he would be happy  to keep the car if it was repaired. He said he 
would get the car inspected and send the reports to the broker.  One week  later the broker 
contacted Mr O to check the position and was told by him that the garage had advised him to 
monitor the car, but an issue with the exhaust  was suspected. The broker asked if there  was 
a report of this inspection.
Mr O sent the broker a report showing that a diagnostic check  had been  undertaken and a 
regeneration of the diesel particular filter had been  carried out. There  was also a separate  
report that the particulate trap efficiency  was below threshold.  These were forwarded  to the 
dealership.
Mr O then took the car to a manufacturer approved garage.  A vehicle  health  check  was 
carried out and a report prepared. This report indicated  there  were  the following issues with 
the car: - steering/  suspension which was listed as amber; an oil leak/gearbox which was 
listed as amber; a worn tyre listed as amber; tail light listed  as red; DPF sensor pipe split 
listed as red and front brake discs and pads listed as red. Handwritten  on this report  was 
a note saying  the car required a new exhaust  and a price was listed. 
The dealership said to the broker that it would, as a gesture of goodwill, repair the car if Mr O 
made contact. But Mr O then said he had changed  his mind and now wanted  to reject the 
car. The broker said that as Mr O had originally  said he would accept the repairs  this was 
what it would  propose.  It was noted  that car had passed its MOT  in 2017. Mr O said he 
thought the car was dangerous to drive,  and the broker  advised him not to use the car for his 
own safety if that was what he thought, and also to prevent any problems with the car 
worsening.
The dealership again offered to repair the car under its warranty. Mr O said he wanted the 
repairs carried out by a manufacturers approved garage but this request was declined.  A 
date was agreed for the car to be taken to the dealership for repair.
Ref: DRN04270382Unfortunately, on the day set for the repairs, Mr O was ill and so a new date had to be set. 
Mr O called the dealership to fix the date and gave the cars  current  mileage as 89,500. He 
was advised not to use the car.
Three days before the car was due at the dealership for the repairs  Mr O reported that he 
wanted to reject the car and that the problems with it were  now worse.  He said he couldnt 
get the car into a gear above third. It was agreed  the car would  still go into the dealership.
On the day the car was due at the dealership Mr O reported that the car had broken down. 
He said the car would now need  to be collected  and taken to the dealership.  The dealership  
said it didnt have the facilities it collect the car and said if Mr O obtained evidence of the 
cars faults  the dealership  would look to authorise  repairs at a local garage.  Concern was 
expressed by the broker that the deterioration in the faults could be due to Mr Os use of the 
car.
Mr O said that he didnt  need to provide further  evidence and he complained  to the brokers. 
The brokers  said there was insufficient evidence to justify Mr O rejecting the car. but it 
offered as a gesture of goodwill £120  to be used for diagnostics and/or repairs for the car. Mr 
O originally rejected this offer but later decided to accept  it.
In September  2018 Mr O complained to Startline about the condition of the car. Startline said 
that due to the amount  of time that had now passed  he would need to provide an 
independent report  as to the condition of the car. Mr O instructed an independent  engineer 
who inspected the car and took it for a test drive.
The independent engineer said that in their opinion  the car had a fault with its transmission 
that would  require further investigation. The independent engineer also said that looking at 
the documentary  evidence provided this fault was likely  to have been present at the point of 
sale. It was noted  car had covered  4,325  miles since the point of sale.
Mr O sent this report to Startline but Startline didnt uphold his complaint. It said that the car 
had passed its MOT  in August  2018  and so had been deemed roadworthy. Startline said the 
independent engineers report was incorrect, and appeared to be based  on the vehicle check 
carried out by the approved garage, rather than on the investigation. Startline said the faults 
highlighted by the approved garage had been advisory only for the leaking oil/gear box and 
that no fault had been  noted for the transmission.  It said the issues with the car had arisen 
from wear and tear and that Mr Os continued use of the car knowing this could potentially 
had made  things worse.
Startline also said it was also concerned that the Mr O had carried  out unauthorised repairs  
on the car.
Mr O disagreed with Startlines view and complained to this service. Our investigator  
recommended that Mr Os complaint should  be upheld. She said that Mr O had complained  
about issues with the car within a few days of acquiring it and so it wasnt  reasonable to say 
these issues were  due to wear and tear. 
Our investigator said although  the car had successfully passed  a MOT in 2017 and 2018 
these tests dont  involve a test drive. The independent engineer reported a loss of 
transmission during the test drive and matched Mr Os complaint about the cars 
performance.
Ref: DRN04270383Our investigator said the independent engineer had found the faults had been  present at the 
point of sale and she thought that the repairs should have been authorised at a local garage 
when the car had broke down in October  2017  without  the need  for Mr O to provide further  
reports.
Our investigator said she accepted that Mr Os continued use of the car would have caused 
the faults to become worse.  She said she appreciated why Mr O had continued to use the 
car as hes felt there was nothing more he could  do after the broker had only offered £120  
towards the repairs. 
Our investigator said she didnt accept  there  had been any unauthorised repairs the car. The 
only work undertaken to the car had been carried out so that it passed  its MOT  and a 
regeneration of the DPF.
Our investigator said it would be fair for Mr O to be able to reject  the car and the agreement  
ended with nothing  further to pay. The car should be collected at no cost to Mr O and some 
of his monthly payments should be reimbursed, but account should  be taken that the 
continued use of the car may have  worsened the cars condition and faults. She noted Mr O 
use of the car had been restricted by its faults  and that he hadnt used it since February 
2018. The car is now SORN.
Mr O agreed with our investigators view but Startline  disagreed.  It said if the car had had 
significant issues at the point of sale then Mr O wouldnt have been able to achieve the 
additional mileage. It said the issues Mr O had raised when hed first acquired  the car were 
advisory only. The dealership had agreed  to look at the car if it was taken to them but 
instead Mr O had decided  to accept the gesture of goodwill and continue to use the car 
potentially making  the issues  with it worse.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed  to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the evidence Ive seen  that Mr O raised issues with the car within a very short 
space of time after acquisition. Ive also see that the dealership was a considerable distance 
from Mr Os home address and so it wasnt feasible  for him to easily return the car.
Mr O complained to the broker first as he says he wasnt aware until much later that he could 
have complained to Startline.  Ive seen that Mr O arranged for the car to be checked by a 
garage approved  by the cars manufacturer. He provided this and another  diagnostic check. 
While I appreciate some of the items  on the health check  were  marked  as amber some 
were red. 
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  there is an implied term that the car will be of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale.  And satisfactory quality is what  a reasonable 
person would expect  taking  into account  all the relevant  circumstances such as age, 
condition and mileage  of the car. Durability is also part of satisfactory  quality as, although 
no one would expect  all the components of the car to last forever, they also wouldnt 
reasonably expect issues to arise with the car for a period of time. 
Ref: DRN04270384Here the car was just under seven years old and had a mileage of over 88,000  so I think 
a reasonable person would expect  some wear and tear issues  to arise.  However,  Ive 
seen that within two months of acquiring the car Mr O had complained that the car was 
unsafe and raised  issues  about  difficulties changing  gears and the power  of the car at 
certain speeds. 
The dealership had agreed  to look at the car and carry our repairs under the warranty  but 
this changed when it broke  down.  The dealership  wasnt then able to collect  the car, nor 
was Mr O able to get the car to the dealership due to the distance involved. Mr O was 
asked for more evidence  about the faults  but said he thought hed provided enough. 
Startline says that Mr O failed to take the car in for the repairs  but I disagree with that 
view. Due to the distance between Mr O and the dealership he wasnt able to drive it 
there safely due to the issues  with the gears. And it appears a stalemate situation was 
then reached with requests for yet more evidence from Mr O and Mr O saying hed 
provided enough.
However, I dont think Mr Os response to the request for more  evidence was 
unreasonable. Hed already provided  the health  check report  that had identified issues  
and there  had been the offer to repair. Also at this point hed had the car for a little over 
two months and I think a reasonable person wouldnt have expected  repair issues to 
occur so soon even with a car of this age and mileage. I think his expectation that he 
would receive assistance  from the dealership in fixing the car was fair. 
As no further  evidence  was provided  the brokers offered Mr O £120  to put towards  the 
diagnostics or repairs  for the car. Mr O accepted this payment though he says he only 
did so because he didnt  know what else to do. Looking at the circumstances I dont think  
that offer was fair. In light of the difficulties  getting the car to the dealership it would  have 
been reasonable to authorise repairs at a garage  local to Mr O without further  evidence  
being produced by him. So I think that the opportunity to repair  the car was missed by the 
dealership or broker and not Mr O.
The opinion of the independent engineer, as set out in their report,  was based on their 
inspection and test drive of the car, as well as the check undertaken by the approved 
garage in September 2017.  The independent  engineer says that in their opinion there is 
a fault with the transmission that would have  been present at the point of sale. 
This fault was identified  not only from the fault codes displayed  on the dash but also the 
loss of power as the car was taken on a test drive. I dont agree  with Startline that the 
independent engineers report is incorrect. I appreciate that the transmission wasnt  
highlighted on the vehicle check carried out by the approved garage but the symptoms  of 
loss of power were  raised by Mr O from October 2017. Ive also seen that the issues 
experienced by the independent engineer when he test drove the car a year later were 
similar to those raised by Mr O to the broker. So I dont think the issue  with the 
transmission was something new.
I also dont think that the two MOTs  carried out in 2017 and 2018 are evidence the car 
didnt have an issue with its transmission. This problem is one experienced with road 
tests and a car isnt driven during an MOT.
I accept that Mr O continued to drive  the car, although Ive seen he was advised on a 
several occasions not to do so as it could  make the faults worse. Overall  he has added 
Ref: DRN04270385an additional  5,000 miles to the odometer. Mr O says he hasnt been  able to use the car 
at all since February 2018 though he did get it MOTd  in August 2018. He has now 
purchased another car to use.
While I can appreciate why Mr O continued to use the car I dont think  I can fairly ignore 
the impact this may have had on its condition. Mr O also seems  to accept this as he 
doesnt dispute that he should be reimbursed a proportion of his payments rather  than 
the whole  amount back.
However I dont accept Mr O has carried out unauthorised repairs  on the car.  There  
appears to have been very limited work carried out on the car, the DPF was regenerated 
and some minor issues  were  corrected for the MOT.
So for the reasons given above  Im upholding Mr Os complaint. Im asking Startline to do 
the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr O.
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay.
Reimburse Mr O 70% of his monthly  payments made from the start of the 
agreement together  with interest to reflect both the restricted use Mr O had of the 
car, but also the impact his continued  driving  may have had on the cars 
condition.
Remove any adverse  information about this agreement  from Mr Os credit  file.
my final decision
As set Out above  Im upholding Mr Os complaint and Im asking Startline Motor Finance  
Limited to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr O.
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay.
Reimburse Mr O 70% of his monthly  payments made from the start of the agreement  
together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement. This repayment reflects both the restricted use Mr O had of the car, but 
also the impact his continued driving  may have had on the cars condition.
Remove any adverse  information about this agreement  from Mr Os credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0427038