K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly.
background
Mr O was given a loan of £2,093 by Everyday Loans  in March 2014.   This was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around  £190.  The total amount payable, including 
interest, was just over £4,577. I understand the loan has been  settled.
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Os complaint. She didnt think  Everyday Loans 
had been wrong  to provide the loan. Mr O didnt agree with the adjudicators  assessment, 
and so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision about  the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Os complaint.
I think there are several overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats  
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself 
that Mr O would  be able to repay his loan in a sustainable  way? If so, did it make a 
fair lending decision? If not, what  would reasonable and proportionate checks  have 
shown at the time?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
Everyday Loans  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr O 
irresponsibly. This means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to satisfy itself 
that he could repay  the loan in a sustainable way. The lender was required to carry out a 
borrower focussed assessment - sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment  or 
affordability check. 
The checks  had to be borrower focussed   so Everyday Loans had to think  about whether 
repaying the loans  sustainably  would  cause difficulties or adverse consequences  for Mr O. In 
other words, it wasnt enough  for Everyday Loans  to simply think about  the likelihood  of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact  of loan repayments  on Mr O.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as the loan amount, 
the repayment amounts and Mr Os income  and expenditure. But there  was no set list of 
checks Everyday Loans had to do.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough: 
Ref: DRN09536262the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period).
Ive carefully considered  all the evidence, arguments  and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mr O.
Everyday Loans  carried out some checks  before it lent to Mr O. This included asking for 
details of his income  and expenditure and carrying out some  credit checks. The lender also 
verified Mr Os salary  and it asked to see bank  statements. Everyday Loans assessed  Mr 
Os disposable income and it says the loan was affordable  for him. 
From what  Ive seen, I think the checks that Everyday Loans carried out before  lending to Mr 
O were reasonable  and proportionate, in the circumstances. But even if those checks  
werent proportionate,  it doesnt automatically  follow that the lender was wrong to provide Mr 
O with the loan. 
Ive seen a summary  of the information gathered  by Everyday Loans at the time,  including  
Mr Os credit report and his bank statements. 
I dont think there was anything on the credit report which  should  reasonably  have been  of 
concern to Everyday  Loans at the time.  Mr Os bank statements show that he had borrowed 
from two short term lenders shortly before he took his loan. Ive thought carefully about this 
but I dont think  there is sufficient evidence that his borrowing from other lenders had 
reached such a point that it ought reasonably to have led Everyday Loans  to decline his loan 
application. Mr O was also overdrawn,  but he seems  to have  remained close to or within  his 
overdraft limit for most  of the time.  And he appears to have been making transfers in and out 
of a savings account which might  have suggested  to a lender that he had access  to at least 
some other funds which could help to repay  his loan.  I have  not seen any other  signs  of 
significant financial distress, such as regular  gambling or frequently returned requests for 
payment, both of which might have signalled severe financial difficulties. Overall, I think a 
lender might  have considered that Mr O was managing his bank accounts  quite carefully.
On balance,  I dont  think that anything which should have caused Everyday Loans any 
additional concerns about Mr Os financial position when he applied  for the loan. Or that 
should have led the lender to reasonably conclude that his loan application should be 
declined.
I think that it was reasonable for Everyday  Loans to make its lending decision based on the 
information Mr O had provided and what it found  in proportionate checks.  I appreciate that 
Mr O says his financial  situation  was very difficult. But this doesnt appear to be something 
he shared with Everyday  Loans at that time,  or something that proportionate checks  would 
have uncovered. Taking everything into account, I cant  fairly conclude that Everyday Loans 
was wrong to provide the loan to him. And I havent  seen  anything to suggest  that the lender 
acted unfairly towards Mr O in some  other  way.
Ref: DRN09536263I know Mr O will be disappointed  by my decision, but I would like to reassure him I have 
carefully considered  everything that both he and Everyday Loans  have told us. Having done  
so, I am not upholding Mr Os complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Everyday Lending  Limited trading as Everyday  Loans.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 November  2020.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0953626