K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund payments made on his credit card that 
he says he didnt authorise.
background
Mr G contacted Santander in November 2018  to dispute over £1,750  of transactions on his 
credit card. He said he had then found  out that the account balance was over the limit. He 
disputed 24 cash withdrawals and three  purchases at retailers  over the period from October 
2017 to November 2018. He said that he kept his card in a safe in his house and that no one 
knew the PIN. He hadnt used the card.
Santander said that it wouldnt be refunding the payments. All the transactions  had been  
processed when  the chip on the card was read and the correct PIN input. Mr G had said that 
the card was in his possession and the only other person with access  to it was his wife. Mr G 
had confirmed he changed the PIN on the card and that it wasnt  known to anybody else.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that most  of the 
payments were made  in a location within a mile of Mr Gs house. Mr G hadnt raised the 
dispute for some time. Some similar payments  during  the period hadnt  been  disputed but 
that may have been an oversight. Santander  had shown it had been sending  him statements 
although Mr G said he didnt receive them. Even  if he say just hadnt opened them  that didnt 
explain why hed seen  a letter about  the account  being over the limit which  prompted him to 
call Santander. And as Mr G had explained  he was in financial difficulty he would have  been  
more likely to use the card to cover  household  living expenses. It wasnt likely someone else 
close to him could have  used  the card without  him knowing. Mr G hadnt answered the 
questions our investigator has asked about  who else lived with him but from listening  to his 
telephone calls with Santander it seemed to be his just his wife.
Mr G didnt agree and wanted  his complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009 and 2017 in considering  
this complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it just to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. Where credit  is involved, 
as is the case here on a credit card, the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 applies  and it states that 
a consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card. 
So Ive thought about the following areas  in looking at this complaint:
-Whats the most likely explanation of how the card and PIN were used?
-Did Mr G authorise these payments which might have involved allowing someone else 
to use his card?
Ive seen the evidence from Santander about  how these payments were processed. And Im 
satisfied that the chip on the genuine card was read and the correct PIN entered. Mr G 
Ref: DRN09826272raised the possibility  of his card being  cloned as he still had the genuine one in his 
possession. But weve not seen evidence that the chip can be copied in this way for 
everyday use. So I consider that the payments were authenticated with the genuine card.
The issue  is whether Mr G consented  to the payments. I agree with what  our investigator 
has said about this. These payments arent consistent with an unknown  third party having 
access to the card and PIN. There is no clear way in which such  a person could  have done  
so. And a fraudster would be more likely  to take as much money as quickly  as possible. 
Here the credit limit on the card wasnt reached  for over a year and a number of the cash  
withdrawals were for relatively small amounts. The cash withdrawals were more  likely linked 
to a pattern  of general not fraudulent spending.
Santander was sending paper statements to Mr G. Its possible someone with access  to his 
post was keeping these from him. But that would need to be over a long period  and doesnt  
explain why he saw a letter  about  the account  being over the limit. I also note that payments 
by direct debit for the minimum amount due were being taken. Mr G explained  he hadnt 
used the card for some time so I think again those  direct debit payments ought reasonably to 
have been noticed by him especially as he says he was in financial difficulty.
Ive considered whether someone  close to him could have used the card without his 
knowledge. He said it was kept in a safe that only he and his wife had access to. He didnt 
write the PIN down or keep the advice  of PIN notice. And after he requested  an update to his 
PIN in August 2017  he accepts he changed  the PIN himself. Our investigator had asked him 
a bit more about who he lived with and whether  the PIN on his credit card was the same say 
as his current account. But Mr G didnt respond to those questions. 
Given the measures  he says he put in place to protect the security  of his card and PIN and 
the time over which the payments were made  I dont think  that someone else close to him 
could have used  the card and PIN in this way without him knowing about it. So whether he 
made the payments himself or allowed someone  else to do so I think  he authorised them  
and is fairly  responsible for them.
I appreciate how disappointed he will be by my findings.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0982627