K820x#14Complaint
Mr S and Miss C complain that Legal  and General Assurance Society  Limited has declined a 
claim made under a joint term assurance policy and cancelled Mr Ss cover.
Background
Mr S and Miss C took out a decreasing term assurance policy with critical illness cover which  
started in June 2017.
In April 2018 Mr S was sadly diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS), so a claim was 
submitted under the policy for critical illness benefit.  After reviewing the medical information 
provided by Mr Ss doctors, Legal  & General declined the claim and cancelled his cover  
under the policy  from inception.  It provided a refund of the premiums  Mr S had paid.  This 
was because it thought Mr S hadnt  answered  questions in his application form correctly 
about previous  symptoms, including numbness  and pins and needles. It said it was 
permitted to take this action under  the relevant law on misrepresentation. Legal & General 
offered Miss C the opportunity to continue her cover  on an individual  basis, which  she 
accepted.
Mr S complained. He accepted he hadnt told Legal & General about the symptoms  he had 
in 2012 and 2013, but this was because  he thought  they were due to a trapped nerve, and 
the symptoms had resolved. He later explained  that he also hadnt  mentioned  the symptoms 
because he thought theyd taken place  in 2011. As this was outside of the time period 
specified in the relevant application  question, Mr S thought it was an inadvertent mistake. 
Legal & General didnt change its decision so Mr S referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought Mr S needed to answer the question 
posed about whether hed seen a doctor about  numbness and pins and needles  differently, 
so there  was a misrepresentation. He thought  Legal & Generals categorisation of the 
misrepresentation as reckless was unreasonable but noted  that this didnt result in a 
different outcome under the relevant law. This was because Legal  & General wouldnt have 
been able to offer Mr S any cover  for critical illness benefit at all if it had known about his 
symptoms. So, the investigator thought the decision  to decline the claim and cancel the 
policy was fair. He noted that Legal  & General said Mr S could still have life cover, but he 
explained to Mr S that the premium would  be rated,  which  would affect the sum assured.
Mr S didnt agree. He didnt accept that Legal & General wouldnt have been able to offer 
him any cover at all. He also said he didnt wish to take out any life cover  with it.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was referred to me to make a final 
decision on the matter.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr S and Im very sorry to hear of his diagnosis.  Like the 
investigator, I dont  think Mr S intentionally  set out to mislead Legal & General  I think  it was 
most likely an inadvertent mistake. But I do think he was asked a clear question in the 
Ref: DRN09269552application form about previous symptoms of numbness and pins and needles,  which  he 
should have answered differently. And overall, Im satisfied  that Legal  & General has acted 
fairly by declining the claim  and cancelling the policy.  I will explain how I reached this 
decision below.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and 
insurer when entering into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty 
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or 
misleading), provided the insurer has asked a clear  question. If the consumer doesnt take 
reasonable care to answer questions accurately it sets out the remedies available  to the 
insurer.
Was there a misrepresentation?
The application Mr S submitted  on 11 August  2016  asked the following question:
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 years 
have you seen a doctor,  nurse or other  health professional for:
chest pain,  palpitations  or irregular  heartbeat?
paralysis, numbness, persistent  tingling  or pins and needles, tremor or facial pain 
other than dental  pain?
memory loss, dizziness or balance problems?
I think the questions  in the application  form Mr S completed were clear and the importance 
of answering them  truthfully and accurately  was highlighted. The application form said if he 
didnt it could mean a claim might  not be paid. It also said if Mr S was unsure  about whether 
to tell Legal & General  about a medical  condition, he should tell it anyway. So, I think  
Legal & General brought to Mr Ss attention  the need to answer the questions fully and 
accurately, and the consequences if he didnt do so. Mr S answered, no to the above 
question.
On receipt of the application, Legal & General sent Mr S a copy of his application  form by 
email. He was asked to confirm that the answers he gave were  correct. Legal & Generals  
records show that Mr S went online and confirmed his answers were correct.  So, Im 
satisfied Mr S had another opportunity to ensure the answers he gave were correct  at the 
time. It appears that although the application  was accepted  by Legal & General, it wasnt 
taken up at the time. But in February  2017,  Mr S and Miss C contacted Legal & General to 
put the policy in place.  They were  asked to complete a declaration  of health, which they 
returned on 24 February 2017,  confirming there  hadnt been any changes to their health or 
their application  answers.  There  was a further delay  in putting the policy in place, which  
meant another declaration  of health  was completed on 9 June 2017. Again, no change of 
health or to the application  questions was recorded.
I think the evidence  clearly shows that Mr S had experienced numbness and pins and 
needles, and hed been to see his GP on seven occasions between April 2011 and 
June 2013 about this. When  the application was completed in August 2016, the appointment 
in April 2012 and five other  appointments fall within the five-year  period. So, I think he 
shouldve answered,  yes to this question at this stage.  For this reason, I think  there was a 
misrepresentation at the original point of application.
Ref: DRN09269553However, its clear that the policy didnt go on risk until July 2017. And in June 2017 Mr S 
was asked to check  that his answers were still correct. While the April 2012 appointment 
wouldve fallen outside of the five-year period at this stage,  he still wouldve needed to 
answer the above question differently. This is because hed seen his GP twice about  
numbness in his left leg in September 2012, numbness in his toes in October 2012 and pins 
and needles in his hands in June 2013.
Having considered the evidence provided, Im satisfied  that Mr S needed to respond 
positively to the question Ive set out above. So, I think there was also a misrepresentation at 
the later point of application.
What would Legal & General have  done differently?
Legal & General categorised Mr Ss misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. Under
CIDRA, this would allow it to cancel  the policy and keep the premiums paid. But in this case,
Legal & General has returned  the premiums paid. This would be the remedy  available to
Legal & General if it had categorised the misrepresentation as careless. Ive considered
whether this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr S initially  said that the symptoms related  to a trapped nerve. Having reviewed  his GP 
records, the note from the appointment on 20 September 2012  where  he saw his GP about 
numbness in his left leg says the diagnosis was nerve  root irritation.  A note from an 
appointment on 27 September 2012  says Mr S had been told he had a trapped  nerve.  So, 
I can see why he offered this explanation, although  it doesnt  explain why he didnt disclose 
a trapped nerve in response to this question. However, in June  2013  he saw his GP about 
pins and needles hed had in his right and left hand for six months, as well as leg spasms.  
There isnt anything within the record to suggest  this was linked to a trapped  nerve;  no cause 
for the symptoms was suggested. So, even if Mr S considered the earlier episode of 
numbness in his leg had related to a trapped nerve  and was resolved, I dont think its 
reasonable to say the symptoms reported in June 2013 were due to this. So, these 
symptoms wouldve needed to be disclosed regardless.
Legal & General says that Mr S hasnt provided  credible or mitigating circumstances for his 
misrepresentation, as he initially  said he didnt remember and then later offered that he 
thought the symptoms arose in 2011. This is why it feels a categorisation of reckless is fair. 
Ive considered this, but while I appreciate Mr S did appear to change  his explanation for the 
misrepresentation when questioned, overall, I still think its fairer  to categorise it as 
careless. I say this because its possible Mr S did, in fact, forget about the issues  he 
experienced in 2012  / 2013. Im also mindful that he didnt see any specialists and the 
symptoms had resolved   he hadnt  been troubled by them for around four years by the time 
the policy was put on risk. So, its also possible that Mr S didnt think  they were  relevant to 
Legal & General. I also dont find it particularly unreasonable that he later offered a different 
explanation, this may have been because he thought  not remembering the symptoms 
wouldve been more  harmful to his claim. In any event, as Mr S disclosed a heart condition,  I 
dont think its fair to say he didnt  take any care at all, which is how I would interpret the 
meaning of reckless.
Under CIDRA, when  its found a consumer has made a careless misrepresentation, the 
insurer can take whatever  action it would have taken if the correct  answer  been given at the 
point of application. Legal & General has shown us that if it had known Mr S had had 
unexplained neurological symptoms that hadnt  been investigated,  it wouldnt  have  offered 
Ref: DRN09269554him any critical illness cover at all. I can see that in September 2012 and October 2012 a 
referral to neurology  was mentioned for the numbness in Mr Ss leg. However, it doesnt 
appear the appointment went ahead. There also doesnt appear  to be any explanation for 
the pins and needles and leg spasms Mr S experienced in 2013.  For this reason, I think it 
was fair for Legal & General to decline Mr Ss claim for MS, as he wouldnt  have  been  given 
critical illness cover if accurate disclosures had been made.
Legal & General has acknowledged  that it couldve provided Mr S with life cover for a higher 
premium. And as I think the misrepresentation was careless, I think  this shouldve been 
offered to Mr S rather than the policy being cancelled  entirely.  But I can see Legal & General 
offered this to Mr S when he made a complaint. While Mr S didnt want to take this up, I think  
the offer made was fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0926955