K820x#14complaint
Ms Cs complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of her motor insurance claim.
Ms C has been helped in bringing  this complaint by her father  Mr C.
background
In July 2018 Ms C was involved in an accident  with another  driver.  Mr C reported the 
accident to AXA. He said Ms C was in the right hand lane of a one way street.  He said Ms C 
pulled into the middle lane but when she did so she collided with another  car who had 
moved from the left hand lane, ignoring a give way sign.  Mr C said the other  driver had an 
unsecured dog in the passenger seat and had been verbally aggressive towards Ms C when 
they both stopped after the accident. 
Around a week  later Mr C complained to AXA. He was unhappy with its lack of response; 
that hed been on hold for too long trying to get through to them on the phone; and lack of 
progress on the claim.  AXA apologised for the lack of progress and said it would look into 
things.
Both Ms C and the other driver thought each other were  to blame for the accident  and the 
other driver wanted to claim against  Ms Cs policy. He also made a personal injury  claim 
against Ms Cs policy. As the other drivers  car had been written-off  hed been  supplied with 
a hire car on a credit hire basis. To reduce the potential costs  of this to AXA,  if Ms C was 
found at fault,  it settled  the other drivers  claim on a without  prejudice basis  and said it 
continued to look into who was at fault.
Mr C remained  unhappy with AXAs service.  It accepted there had been some  delays and 
offered Ms C £100  compensation. 
AXA asked an accident investigator to look into what had happened. The investigator  
interviewed Ms C who said shed pulled from the right hand lane of a two lane one way 
street and collided with the car in the left hand  lane. She said shed previously  driven past 
the other car when it was still in the side road before  the give way sign.  She said shed 
checked to make sure the left hand  lane was clear and shed also asked  her passenger  to 
check. She said the other driver must have been driving at some speed.  The accident 
investigator thought  it most likely Ms C would be found at fault for the accident but that AXA 
had a stronger  case against the personal injury  claim.
In November 2018 AXA also appointed  a forensic engineer  to give a view on the accident 
based on a desk  top assessment as the other  car had been  written-off  and so wasnt  
available. 
Mr C was unhappy with AXAs  investigation  into what happened and didnt think  Ms C was to 
blame for the accident.  He complained about the service shed received from AXA including 
a lack of communication, delays and that it hadnt  found the other driver at fault. He didnt  
think AXA was acting  in her interests;  had taken account that the dog in the other car could 
have distracted the driver  or that hed been verbally  aggressive towards Ms C. He was also 
unhappy it didnt  inspect the other drivers vehicle and thought the accident  shouldnt have 
caused the amount of damage  the other driver said it did.
Ref: DRN03751202AXA offered  Ms C a further £200 but didnt think it could show  it was most likely she wasnt 
responsible for the accident. It said shed  moved into the left hand  lane where  the other 
driver was already established.  It didnt think it could  prove  that the unsecured  dog or speed 
the other car was travelling meant the other driver was to blame. 
Ms C brought her complaint to us. While we were looking  into it AXA told us it had settled the 
claim for the damage to the other  drivers car with Ms C at fault. But it was waiting for further  
medical evidence  to decide the personal  injury claim. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend Ms Cs complaint  be upheld. She thought AXA had made 
its decision to settle the claim fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions  
of the policy. She thought it had considered the appropriate information to decide if it was 
reasonable for the other  car to have been  written-off. She accepted  there had been some  
problems but thought  £300 was a fair and reasonable offer of compensation to put things 
right.
Mr C, on behalf of Ms C didnt agree. He asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im satisfied AXA has 
made a fair and reasonable offer to compensate for any distress  and inconvenience its 
caused.
Mr C has made a number of detailed points so I hope he doesnt take it as a discourtesy that 
Im going  to focus on what I see as being  the central issues of this complaint. 
liability for the accident
Our service doesnt decide whos at fault for an accident, as thats the role of the courts.  
Instead we look to see that an insurer has made its decision on how to settle a claim fairly, 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Like most policies we see Ms Cs policy gives AXA the right to take over and defend or settle 
any claims against her as it sees fit. This might mean AXA makes a decision Ms C or Mr C 
dont agree with but the policy allows it to do so. My role is to consider whether its done so 
fairly and reasonably. 
AXA said Ms C had pulled into the path of a car already established in that lane so it 
wouldnt be able to prove she wasnt at fault.  I understand Mr C maintains that both Ms C 
and the other driver were  pulling into the middle lane. But Ive seen a photograph of the 
location and its a two lane street. Ms C also confirmed  in her statement to AXAs  
investigator that it was a two lane street. So I dont think both drivers could have been  pulling 
into a middle lane. Ms C also said the other  driver might have pulled out of the side road too 
quickly which meant shed  pulled into it. But I can see the accident  happened further up the 
road and not at the junction  the other driver  had pulled out from. I appreciate Ms C made 
checks to see if the road was clear but it seems  she pulled into a car already in the lane.
I appreciate how frustrating it would be for Ms C given the other driver was verbally 
aggressive towards her after the accident; she could  see that he had an unsecured dog in 
the car; and he was driving at speed. However AXA didnt think  any of these  points would 
Ref: DRN03751203mean it could show Ms C wasnt to blame  given that shed pulled into the other drivers lane. 
I think AXAs view is reasonable given that it was Ms C who changed  lanes and I havent 
seen anything to show its likely  the dogs actions had any impact  on the other driver. While 
the forensic engineers report supports Ms Cs account that the other driver was going  faster  
than her, its very difficult  to prove the speed the car was travelling and it remains  that Ms C 
needed to make sure the lane was clear  before pulling into it.
I accept the claim took some time to progress but I can see AXA communicated  with the 
claims management company acting  for the other  driver  and tried to hold the other  driver  at 
fault. It also appointed an investigator and a forensic engineer to look into whether it could 
reasonably show  Ms C wasnt to blame.  Neither of these independent experts thought  it was 
likely Ms C wouldnt be considered at fault. Its also not in AXAs  interest to settle a claim 
with their driver  at fault as it cant recover the costs. And I think it did all it reasonably could 
to look into whether it was reasonable to defend  it. I understand Mr C questioned  whether 
AXA was acting in Ms Cs interests  but Im satisfied it was and did its best to support her 
account of what  happened.  
Taking everything into account  Im satisfied AXAs decision to settle the claim with Ms C at 
fault is fair, reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
I understand the personal injury claim  is still being  investigated so I havent made a finding 
on the outcome  of that here. However Im satisfied AXA is doing what it needs to in order to 
make that decision including appointing independent  experts and requesting further  medical 
information. 
damage caused by the accident 
I understand Ms C and Mr C dont  think the accident  should have caused the other drivers 
car to have been  written-off or led to a personal injury claim.  As the personal injury claim is 
still outstanding  Im not going to comment on that part of it further.
AXA wasnt  able to inspect the other drivers  car as it had been  written-off. While I 
understand Mr Cs frustration at this I think it was reasonable for it to rely on the other 
information it had to come to its decision.  The claims management company acting for the 
other driver provided AXA with an engineers report which included  a number of 
photographs. AXA also asked the forensic  engineer  to comment  on this report  and the 
photographs.
The forensic engineer  thought the repair  estimate  was inflated. But said the estimate he 
came to, while lower, would still have meant the vehicle would have  been  written-off.  He also 
thought the damage was consistent with Ms Cs account of what  had happened.  I appreciate 
Mr C is unhappy with this report  but Ive seen  a list of the engineers qualifications and 
experience and am persuaded  by what hes said as hes given detailed  reasoning  for his 
conclusions. So I think it was reasonable for AXA to rely on his report when settling the claim 
against Ms C.
customer service
Theres no dispute that AXA hasnt dealt with everything as well as it could have done and 
theres been delays  at times. However AXA has offered Ms C £300 to compensate  for this. 
Given that Im satisfied AXA has acted reasonably in its decision to settle the claim against 
Ref: DRN03751204Ms C I think £300 is a fair and reasonable offer of compensation for any poor service.  I say 
this because its in line with other  awards  our service makes for cases  of similar  seriousness.  
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Ms C and Mr C hoped for but Im not going  to ask AXA to 
compensate Ms C any further  or amend its decision on how its settled the claim against her.
my final decision
I understand AXA Insurance UK Plc have  offered  to pay Ms C £300 compensation. I 
conclude thats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, so my final decision is that AXA 
Insurance UK Plc should pay Ms C £300  compensation  for her distress and inconvenience  if 
it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN0375120