K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited (Arnold  Clark)  led him to believe he 
was entering into a different type of loan agreement than they eventually sold him. He says 
he was therefore  mis-sold  the finance.
background 
I issued my provisional decision in June 2019.  I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Mr Ts complaint. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
In June 2015 Mr T took receipt of a new vehicle. He thought hed financed  the vehicle  
through a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) agreement which would allow  him to 
voluntarily terminate his contract when  hed paid half of the sum due. But he was 
disappointed in 2018, when he went to look at new car options, to be told his agreement was 
a fixed sum loan with no rights to voluntarily terminate the deal.
Mr T complained to Arnold Clark. He explained  that the document entitled a basic 
explanation of your finance proposal that hed been given at inception,  showed he was 
looking to finance  the vehicle under a PCP deal and he said theyd therefore mis-sold him a 
fixed sum loan that he wouldnt have accepted if hed been  told about it at the time.
But Arnold Clark didnt  agree with Mr T. They said the contract hed signed was for a fixed  
sum loan and this was clearly shown on the documentation  hed been  given. They  said that 
he had been advised about his 14 day cooling off period within which  he couldve withdrawn 
from the arrangement  but they noted that he hadnt  chosen to do so. Arnold Clark didnt 
support Mr Ts complaint. 
So Mr T referred his complaint to this service  and our investigator  provided his opinion.  He 
noted that the vehicle  order summary  document set out the original  finance  proposal but 
explained that the type of finance  product you are proposed for may change  during the 
proposal process. He was happy that this was part of the initial  proposal  before the 
transaction was agreed. He noted that Arnold Clark did subsequently propose a PCP deal 
but this deal was declined  by the finance provider. But the provider was prepared to offer a 
fixed sum loan and the investigator;  having reviewed the final agreement and finance  
documents was satisfied  this was for a fixed sum loan and not a PCP. Whilst he understood 
that Mr T didnt think this was the case he didnt think it would be fair to suggest  Arnold Clark 
had done anything wrong as the documentation  was clear.
But Mr T was still dissatisfied. He said the vehicle order agreement had also set out that the 
car was to be financed  under a PCP.  He said he and the business signed this document to 
agree it was a legally binding agreement between them. So he couldnt understand why the 
adjudicator would suggest it wasnt mis-sold. He said he hadnt been made aware that a 
PCP application  had been made for him and rejected  and he couldnt be expected  to know 
the difference between the financial products offered. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN04994292I dont currently agree with the investigators view and Im expecting to uphold  this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant  law says that the finance product should not have been misrepresented to 
Mr T. If he was told something that was incorrect, and if he relied on this information when 
deciding to enter into the contract with Arnold  Clark,  then I would think  it fair and reasonable 
that they were  responsible for this and I would  ask them to put things right.
was Mr T told something that was incorrect?
My starting point is the contract information. I can see that the finance agreement signed  by 
Mr T on 3 July 2015 was for a fixed  sum loan and Ive been  provided with a document  
entitled your credit agreement explained that also sets out that the finance is for a fixed 
sum loan.  A further form called pre contract credit information  explains who will provide the 
credit and again it explains this is a fixed sum loan. The last two documents  arent  signed  or 
dated but I think its fair to suggest  and probably  the case, that these  were  provided to Mr T 
at the time he signed the fixed  sum loan agreement on 3 July 2015.
The proposal documents are just that  a proposal.  And whilst I understand they refer to a 
PCP deal, I also note that they explain the finance product may change. I can see Arnold 
Clark initially discussed this with the finance  provider but the provider preferred to offer a 
fixed sum loan. I dont think theres  anything wrong with that. Whilst Arnold Clark may have 
proposed this as a way forward it was for the finance provider to make  a commercial 
decision about the type of credit they would offer and then for Mr T to decide  whether he was 
happy with that.
But Mr T says the subsequent vehicle order agreement that was created on 28 June 2015 
set out that the finance was to be a PCP. Ive reviewed this document and I agree. It 
explains that the finance product is a manufacturers PCP.   Theres  a breakdown  of the 
balance due to the finance  company  and the instalment  premiums.  Its signed by Mr T and 
Arnold Clark and its explained that this is a binding agreement. 
Ive also seen a screen  shot from Arnold Clarks system taken on 29 June  2015.  This says 
that a manufacturers  PCP agreement has been  proposed and lists the status as 
accepted. The agreement number listed is the same agreement number that was 
subsequently used by the finance provider for the fixed  sum loan agreement they eventually 
asked Mr T to sign on 3 July 2015,  a few days later. So it seems that four days before taking 
receipt of the car, Mr T signed  an agreement with the business that explained the finance  
was a PCP and set out how that PCP would work.
So I asked  Arnold Clark to explain why the vehicle  order agreement  and the proposal  screen 
seemed to suggest a manufacturers  PCP deal had been  agreed and accepted.
Ref: DRN04994293They said the basic  explanation of your finance  proposal form explained the manner in 
which a proposal  is initially  considered.  Mr T received this prior to the proposal  being made 
and they said the finance company  would only accept  Mr Ts proposal on the basis of a fixed 
sum loan.
They said that before  Mr T signed  the fixed sum loan agreement he was provided with two 
forms:
        Your Credit Agreement   Customer Explanation
        Standard European Consumer Credit Information (SECCI)
They said these documents fully explained  the type of finance  agreement he was entering 
into and that the screen print from their internal  systems  was only based  on the initial  
proposal and wouldnt  reflect  that the finance  company would  only accept a fixed  sum loan.
Arnold Clark say the PCP proposal was rejected by the finance provider. If that was the case  
I wouldve  expected  to see more communication between them;  the finance provider and 
Mr T. But I havent been provided  with that.
They say that the screen  print wouldnt reflect the finance companys decision but its clearly 
listed as accepted  and thats not been explained.  In the absence of any further clarification 
it would  seem probable  that the PCP had been accepted  and Im supported in that finding by 
the fact that the agreement number wasnt changed when the fixed  sum loan was set up. Id 
have thought it most likely  that, if this were a different finance agreement, it would  have a 
different, unique, identification  number.  Otherwise it would be difficult to distinguish  the PCP 
proposal from the fixed sum loan agreement and that could  lead to mis-communication. 
I think that, regardless of any paperwork presented  on the day, Mr T wouldve been  
expecting to be financed  through a PCP agreement because hed already signed, only a few 
days earlier, to say he agreed to that and the document  was binding on both him and the 
company. 
It wouldnt be sensible to ask Mr T to agree to be bound by an agreement  that included  a 
provision for PCP finance if there  was a chance  this could  change.  Ive not seen evidence  
that Arnold Clark communicated a change in the finance with him at any point  until he signed 
the final agreement  with them on the day. 
So I think its most likely that Mr T was told he would be financed  through  a PCP agreement 
and Im persuaded that, if he had been correctly advised this was a fixed  sum loan,  he 
wouldnt have entered into the agreement.  I say that because  its clear he anticipated  
voluntary termination  when  he visited the dealership before his agreement ended  and its 
clear hes upset about losing the opportunity to hand the car back early.  Hes also explained 
that he has previously voluntarily terminated a PCP finance agreement and has had several 
PCP deals in the past.  His current deal on another car is a PCP.
So I think its most likely he would have  been considering that PCP option here as well. And 
its clear his previous  preferred finance option  was PCP and not a fixed sum loan so I think  
its most  likely hed have  wanted  a similar  deal this time.
to put things right
Ref: DRN04994294Mr T tells me he has now sold the car. Ive seen  evidence  he received £5,500 for it and 
settled his finance agreement for £6,120.70. He had to fund the £620.70 difference from his 
own funds.
Its clear to me this wasnt the deal Mr T wanted or wouldve  accepted. So had Mr T not sold 
the car I wouldve asked  Arnold  Clark to settle the agreement on his behalf and take his car 
back. Theyd have  been able to use the proceeds  from the sale of the car to offset the cost 
of settling Mr Ts agreement. 
But as the car has been sold and Mr T has settled the finance himself, I think the best option 
now is for Arnold Clark to reimburse  him the £620.70 hes had to pay from his own funds  to 
release himself from the deal he didnt want.
Mr T has been  inconvenienced by the experience and I think it would be reasonable, in the 
circumstances, to ask Arnold Clark to pay him £300 in recognition of this.
He would also have  wanted to voluntarily  terminate his deal and didnt want  to keep his 
current car for so long.  I think its reasonable to suggest this has further inconvenienced him 
and in recognition of that I think it would be fair to suggest Arnold Clark pay Mr T an 
additional £200.
But Mr T has had the continued use of the car and it seemed to have been functioning 
correctly. So it wouldnt be fair for me to suggest  Arnold  Clark return any of the finance 
payments hes made.
my provisional decision
Overall, Im expecting to ask Arnold  Clark Automobiles  Limited  to:
reimburse the £620.70 Mr T has had to fund to release himself from his finance  
agreement 
pay him £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  caused
Arnold Clark provided their opinion on my decision.  They said that if Mr T had been given a 
PCP deal his right to voluntary termination  wouldve been when half of the total sum due was 
paid. They said that wouldve been after 41 monthly instalments had been paid which  would 
have been on 3 December 2018.
They explained that the dealership had offered to do this. But they said Mr T had declined 
and had sold the car himself, later, taking receipt  of his new car on 24 December 2018. 
So they said if Mr T had taken up their offer he would have been able to achieve the same  
outcome but without  the need  to incur a charge of £620.70 to settle his finance.
And they went on to dispute the additional  £200 compensation Id suggested for 
inconvenience. They said Id explained  this was because he didnt want to keep his car for 
so long and wouldve been inconvenienced and they explained  that, as they had offered to 
allow him to exchange on 41 months  he hadnt  needed to keep  his car for too long.
Mr T was happy with the provisional decision but he had a different view of the dealerships 
offer to allow him to hand his car back early.  His recollection was that they wanted to sell him 
another car, not hand  his back.  He couldnt  understand  why they would think he would be 
Ref: DRN04994295prepared to go back to them  nine months  after hed raised a complaint against them to agree 
a deal on another vehicle.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded that any offer from the dealership to allow Mr T to return  his car early  was 
the same  as being  allowed to voluntarily terminate a finance  agreement as he wouldve been 
able to under a PCP. Ive not seen the offer in writing but I can see that Mr T refers to it in an 
email to the dealership on 12 may 2018.  I think the detail of it was, from the evidence  I have, 
never made clear to Mr T. It appears  that Mr T thinks  it may have  been  an offer to part 
exchange his vehicle and if that were the case  I wouldnt think it comparable to the voluntary 
termination rights he would have had under a PCP whereby he couldve simply handed the 
car back.  
And regardless, the usual remedy when theres  been a misrepresentation is to put the 
consumer back in the position he wouldve been  in had the misrepresentation not been  
made and not to put him in the position hed have been in had the misrepresentation been 
true. 
So Im not persuaded to change my decision that Arnold Clark should  reimburse  the money 
Mr T paid to settle his finance agreement.  
Im also not persuaded that I should change my decision on the additional  inconvenience  
payment either. I dont  think there  was ever any detail behind the offer to settle on 41 
months. I think  its clear that Arnold Clark have always disputed that a PCP was offered and 
if they were really prepared to offer a voluntary termination the complaint would not have 
been necessary.  
So my provisional decision remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Arnold Clark Automobiles  
Limited to:
reimburse the £620.70 Mr T has had to fund to release himself from his finance  
agreement 
pay him £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0499429