K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  how Sainsburys Bank Plc (the bank) handled his request for a 
refund (or chargeback) to his credit card for a failed purchase  of a phone. 
background
Mr L bought the phone from a stranger over the internet, and he paid via his credit  card and 
thence via PayPal into the account of the sellers sister. The seller  was supposed to post the 
phone to Mr L, but it never turned  up. 
When Mr L raised the chargeback request (for around £500), the bank re-credited Mr Ls 
credit card  whereupon Mr L says he bought another phone  but it later re-debited the card 
account when  the banks  attempts to arrange  the chargeback failed. The bank also said a 
refund via section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act wasnt an option,  as there was no debtor-
creditor-supplier relationship.
Mr L is unhappy with this outcome. He things its unfair the bank should have re-debited  the 
account because  (a) the bank didnt  tell him this could happen and moreover  (b) the bank 
expressly encouraged  him to believe the chargeback had irrevocably succeeded   so the 
money was unconditionally his again. On the strength of this he bought another phone.
The bank upheld  Mr Ls complaint to the extent that it accepted  it should  have  informed him 
better about how the chargeback process  worked. It paid Mr L £75 compensation for this. 
But the bank saw no reason to go further and re-credit the whole of Mr Ls chargeback 
request. 
Our investigator concluded the bank had acted fairly. She explained why the chargeback 
couldnt take place and why section 75 didnt apply. And she thought  the bank had paid fair 
compensation for not telling Mr L more  about  how the chargeback  process worked. She 
didnt think the evidence supported Mr Ls claim that the bank  had told him the refunded  
money was unconditionally his. She also thought it likely Mr L would have bought  a new 
phone in any event.  
Mr L hasnt accepted the investigators conclusions. While he hasnt  disagreed with her 
finding that the chargeback couldnt  succeed and section 75 didnt apply, he continues  to say 
the bank told him the refunded money  was his to keep. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but I too have 
concluded the bank has treated him fairly.  
Like the investigator, I dont think theres enough  evidence to conclude  the bank  told Mr L his 
chargeback had succeeded.  But even  if the bank had misinformed Mr L to that extent, it 
wouldnt lead me to reach a substantially different conclusion. The usual approach, where 
someone has been given wrong  information, is to treat them  as if the right information had 
been given to them instead,  not as if the wrong information had been true.
So even in such  a case, I wouldnt treat Mr L as if he was entitled  to retain the re-credited 
£500 or so. 
Ref: DRN03965352Like the investigator, I also think Mr L would have bought the other phone in any event. But 
this can hardly be looked  on as a financial loss. Mr L has paid for a phone and has got a 
phone. His financial  loss stems from the earlier transaction where he paid for a phone and 
didnt get one. The bank didnt cause  that loss and isnt responsible for Mr L failing to get his 
money back. The bank did all it could to get Mr Ls money back. What the bank did wrong 
was to not give Mr L enough information. But even if the bank had given Mr L enough 
information, he would still have suffered the financial loss. 
I agree  the bank  should have informed Mr L better  about how the chargeback process  
works. £75 is fair compensation for this. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint as I consider  Sainsburys Bank Plc has already compensated 
him adequately. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0396535