K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
2006. Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc, (trading  as Aqua), mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr S told us that the PPI was sold to him during a phone  conversation.  But Ive seen 
BoS records showing that he completed  an application by post;
I think BoS made it clear that Mr S didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out. I say this because  Ive seen Mr S credit card application form. After  the box which  
Mr S signed to request the credit card there is another box which  Mr S has signed  and 
ticked to request the PPI. Had Mr S not wanted  the insurance he could have left this box 
blank. Because  of the time that has passed I can understand why Mr S cant  remember 
this;
BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr S got the information  he needed so that he could decide  
whether he wanted it in the light of his circumstances at the time;
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  such as those  
affecting someone who was self-employed. So the policy would have  been  useful to him 
if something went wrong. I also havent seen anything  to suggest that the PPI wasnt  
affordable for him. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put off 
Mr S taking  out the cover;
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what he have  said about having  had 
some savings, being entitled to sick pay and having family on whom  he could rely. But as it 
was up to Mr S to decide whether the policy was suitable or not, these  points dont change  
my decision.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr S about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair; 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN06871862my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0687186