K821x#15complaint
Mrs P and Mr N have  complained about their home insurer  Fairmead  Insurance  Limited in 
relation to a claim  they made to it after several frozen and burst pipes caused water damage  
at their home.
background
Mrs P and Mr N told Fairmead on 6 March 2018 that damage had occurred to their home. 
Fairmead sent a loss adjuster to their property on 17 March 2018.  He noted, amongst other 
damage, that carpets in the three bedrooms were damaged. The adjuster  advised that whilst 
the contents claim could  progress, the claim for the buildings damage couldnt proceed  until 
the leaks had been stopped. Once confirmation of the leaks having been fixed was received 
at the end of March,  Fairmead began to dry the property.
In April Fairmead agreed for Mrs P and Mr N, along with their small children, to move  into a 
rental property. This further allowed their home to be emptied  and stripped  to aid the drying 
process. Also in April Mrs P complained to Fairmead as she said shed been  chasing the 
adjuster a lot and wasnt getting payments the adjuster  had promised to make.  The adjuster 
had apparently told Mrs P and Mr N that Fairmead would settle  in cash if they were 
agreeable, but Mrs P and Mr N felt they couldnt  get the work done for the value proposed at 
that time.  
In June Fairmead reviewed Mrs Ps concerns about how the claim was being handled. It felt 
things had not gone well so far but that the claim was now moving  forwards. Fairmead  gave 
Mrs P and Mr N £150 compensation and the option  to continue with repair  or settle in cash. 
They said theyd like Fairmead to continue.  It did not issue  a final response  letter.
By July 2018  Fairmead was arranging contractors  and a start date for the work  of 1 August 
was set. The end date was expected to be 31 August 2018. Fairmead  was aware that Mrs P 
was due to have another child in August.
Whilst work actually began a few days  before  1 August, by 7 August Mrs P was unhappy 
with its progress. Fairmead said Mrs P and Mr N should have moved their contents items out 
of the property. Items were moved to storage. Fairmeads contractor noted wardrobes  
needed moving. It didnt  feel they could be dismantled and reassembled  in good order but 
took them down  and moved them to storage  anyway. 
At the beginning  of September  Fairmead  reviewed  the claims progress again. Again it 
accepted there had been failings on its part and gave Mrs P and Mr N £200 compensation. 
In October  Fairmead moved to settle  the contents  claim. It didnt review the progress of 
repairs and by November  Mrs P contacted it again  to say she was concerned with the work; 
it was still protracted  and now some of it was being  done poorly.  She said shed  chosen  
materials for decoration  in September, but as yet none of that work had started and she was 
now being asked  to provide her choices again.  The adjuster told Mrs P and Mr N that the 
house was now habitable so they should  move  back. Mrs P pointed  out that there was no 
kitchen, so an extension  to the rental property was agreed.
Around this time the adjuster told Mrs P and Mr N that no decision regarding reinstating the 
kitchen would be made until the new year. The decoration  work  continued  and Mrs P was 
unhappy with the finish of the wallpapering.  She said gaps were  being left at the top of the 
Ref: DRN03766132walls and cracks in the plaster beneath were  showing through.  She said lining paper hadnt 
been used. Fairmeads  contractor  said the walls hadnt been  lined before but the paper had 
been thicker;  the finish was a natural result  of Mrs P having chosen a thinner paper. 
Regarding the gaps  the contractor said this was because  its work wasnt finished  yet. 
The work continued and when the master bedroom  was three quarters finished Mrs P asked 
again about gaps at the top of the wall and between joins in the paper.  Mrs P says the 
contractor told her the gaps were  because her walls werent straight. The contractor  told the 
adjuster it wasnt prepared to continue to work  at Mrs P and Mr Ns home. The adjuster told 
Fairmead it should cash settle the remaining work. 
Fairmead spoke to Mrs P and Mr N about  cash settling. They  said that whilst they had some  
concerns about  the work, they didnt want to settle  in cash. Fairmead  said it would continue 
with completing the work if Mrs P and Mr N would choose some thicker  paper, it gave them  a 
budget for doing this. It said it would then re-paper  the rooms. It was felt there  was about six 
 eight weeks worth of work left to complete at the property, not including  reinstating the 
kitchen. 
But, regarding the kitchen, Fairmead  said it would  still look to settle  in cash with Mrs P and 
Mr N for this work. It said it wasnt liable for replacing it in its entirety. It said it would pay 
around £2,000  as a 50% contribution from it for replacing the undamaged parts. All 
excluding VAT until such  a time as Mrs P and Mr N show it VAT has been paid. Fairmead 
said it would  pay a further £150  compensation and reminded Mrs P and Mr N that it had paid 
them compensation previously as well.
On 19 December 2018 Fairmeads file suggests  it was waiting to see if Mrs P and Mr N 
would be prepared to settle in cash for all the outstanding work. Mrs P and Mr N told 
Fairmead that there were other issues in need  of repair still, as well as the wallpapering. 
Around this time the adjuster noted that how the claim was to be settled was uncertain  and 
said the lease  on the rental property wouldnt be extended until Mrs P and Mr N had decided 
what they wanted to do.
On 24 January 2019 the adjuster told Mrs P that shed have to accept a cash settlement  
the figures had been revised  to include outstanding  work theyd highlighted and rent for the 
property they were staying in would be paid for two-months,  allowing them  to stay there until 
23 March 2019.  They were told the repair settlement total was £10,752.95  and that it would 
only take eight  weeks for the home  to be made  habitable. Mrs P told the adjuster that Mr N 
was currently away, so she couldnt  begin to sort contractors out until his return in 
mid-February and then it would take time to find a reputable trader, as well as for them to 
start work. Mrs P asked for a further  six weeks, on top of the two-months rent offered. The 
adjuster said the couples  current situation wasnt relevant to the claim settlement. The 
request for further rent was refused and £1,140 was paid for eight-weeks rent only. 
Mrs P and Mr N had other concerns regarding the cash  settlement, which  they felt was being 
forced upon them. They felt there was at least one carpet not accounted  for in the 
settlement, there was no allowance for replacing  the wardrobe that theyd been told couldnt 
be reassembled, they didnt understand why Fairmead was only paying for part of the 
kitchen. Overall, they were perplexed as to why they were suddenly being  put in the position 
of having to resolve the outstanding repairs, and, with no notice, in such  a short time too.    
Mrs P and Mr N also had concerns regarding  their claim  for damaged  clothing.  They  said 
theyd been told the settlement would be net of a 5% deduction  to account for wear  and tear, 
Ref: DRN03766133but this was later changed to a 10% deduction. They felt Fairmead  should  be held to the 
original offer.
Fairmead wasnt minded  to extend the rent further. Regarding carpets  it said it had paid 
£1,928.62 for the two lounge carpets,  a bedroom carpet and the hall-stairs and landing 
carpet. It had then paid a further £148.28 for a bedroom carpet. These  sums,  Fairmead  said 
were reasonable as they were what it would  cost it to replace the carpets.  
Regarding the wardrobes,  Fairmead  said it wasnt responsible for replacing it, it didnt accept 
its contractor had told Mrs P and Mr N that it couldnt be reassembled.  Fairmead  said they 
would have to arrange for a contractor to attempt to re-assemble it and, if the contractor had 
difficulty, they would have  to contact it again for it to review the situation.  The wardrobe in its 
dissembled state was returned to Mrs P and Mr N on 22 March  2019. Theyd purchased  
temporary storage  for the items that belonged  in the wardrobes. Later (in August 2019) 
Fairmead agreed to replace the wardrobes,  it paid for a skip to dispose of the old ones and 
to reimburse Mrs P and Mr Ns cost for temporary  storage items.
In respect of the kitchen, Fairmead maintained  its settlement,  based  on a 50% contribution 
towards the cost of replacing the undamaged  but matching parts was reasonable. 
Turning to the cash settlement Fairmead  said that this had been the appropriate way forward 
because relations between Mrs P and Mr N and its contractor had clearly broken down. It 
reminded Mrs P and Mr N that it had paid for an additional two-months rent and it had been 
satisfied that this afforded enough time for repairs to the home to be completed to make  it 
habitable. It said it wouldnt  be reasonable for it to pay for a longer period  just because it 
might take Mrs P and Mr N longer to complete the work. Fairmead concluded  that its 
settlements regarding the reinstatement work were correct.
Fairmead also explained that its initial offer regarding the damaged clothing had been a 
mistake. It said it should never have offered settlement net of a 5% deduction, the deduction 
should always have  been 10%. Fairmead  said there was no evidence  to the age of the 
items, so 10% was applied across the board as a fair and simple way of settling the matter. 
Mrs P and Mr N complained to us. Whilst Fairmead  had paid them a total of £500 
compensation during the claim they were unhappy  with everything that had gone on. They  
felt the claim had taken  far too long overall  and they were particularly concerned that they 
werent being allowed enough time to make  their home habitable before having to move  
back into it. The explained that they couldnt afford  to stay living  away,  and the only way 
repairs could be completed before the end of the rental period was for them to speed things 
up by doing work on evenings  and weekends. They said they didnt understand how or why 
their raising concerns  about the quality of the wall papering job meant suddenly  their claim 
was to be settled  in cash, with them in the position  of, in a few short weeks,  having to find a 
contractor and complete  the work  Fairmead  had started.
In March 2019 Mrs P and Mr N confirmed  theyd moved home. They said there  was a crack 
in their bath.
Our investigator said it wasnt for him to say whether Fairmead  should  have  given Mrs P and 
Mr N more time to complete the work or not  as relations had broken down it was right for 
Fairmead to settle  in cash and it had been  clear about the timeframe it was allowing  it 
couldnt reasonably be expected to have done  anything more. Regarding the carpets  he said 
there was no evidence the 3rd bedroom  was damaged. He said there was no sign that 
Ref: DRN03766134Fairmead had been told about  the bath.  He noted the situation regarding the wardrobes had 
moved on. He said the contents  settlement had been fair. He noted Mrs P and Mr N had had 
to chase Fairmead during the claim which had been  delayed but, overall,  he said he felt that 
the total compensation Fairmead had paid of £500  was reasonable. 
Mrs P and Mr N said they were unhappy  with the findings. They said so much had gone 
wrong it was hard to keep track. They  felt Fairmead had treated them  unfairly by doing  work 
but then forcing  them  to accept a cash settlement and by refusing to accept that their 
situation meant completing that work wouldnt be as easy  or quick  as if it had continued to 
finish the repairs. Our investigator said hed pass the complaint on for review by an 
ombudsman and it came  to me. I felt Fairmead had failed Mrs P and Mr N. I issued some  
provisional findings:
I think  Fairmead handled this claim very poorly throughout and, towards the end, with little 
more than complete  disregard  for its customers,  Mrs P and Mr N. It did not treat them fairly. 
Im issuing this provisional decision to explain  my view on the key complaint issues  and set 
out what I think Fairmead needs  to do now to put things right. Both parties will have chance 
to respond before I make a final decision.
settling in cash
Fairmead had entered into a contract  for repair with Mrs P and Mr N. An insurer  cant fairly 
extract itself from such a contract and settle in cash unless the policyholder  frustrates the 
contract in some way. A policyholder complaining about poor work does not equate to 
frustration. Having carefully considered Fairmeads file notes alongside those of its adjuster, 
I see no grounds for Fairmead taking the action it did. I also see that in around 
December 2018  Mrs P and Mr N were misled  by Fairmead  it was discussing with them 
about completing that work but, meanwhile,  Fairmeads adjuster had decided that wasnt  
going to happen. I can completely understand the frustration  Mrs P and Mr N felt when, in 
January, with Fairmead only just having  written  to them explaining  they could choose how to 
proceed, the adjuster  told them there was no choice, cash was the only option. 
It was also, in my view, entirely unfair  for the adjuster to refuse to take into account  Mrs P 
and Mr Ns situation and how that might affect work being completed. It wasnt unreasonable 
for Mrs P to want  to obtain Mr Ns involvement,  and I accept it would have been difficult for 
Mrs P to organise anything with three  young children to look after.  Whilst it may have  taken 
its contractor only 6  8 weeks to complete work (although not including the kitchen), that 
contractor would have  been hitting the ground running. Whereas Mrs P and Mr N would 
have to research  and find a contractor, checking estimates and references, and work with 
any lead time they might  have, as well as any time frame  they might  have  for completing the 
work. There was also the kitchen to be taken into account, which  as of 24 January  2019 
hadnt even been ordered and it isnt uncommon for kitchen orders to have a lead time of 
eight weeks. According to Fairmeads file the whole reason the property  was uninhabitable 
at that time was due to the kitchen needing  reinstating. Fairmeads  actions and refusal to 
listen to their policyholders needs placed  Mrs P and Mr N in an untenable position. 
I accept that all of this caused  Mrs P and Mr N immense distress and inconvenience. Ive set 
out my compensation award below. But because Mrs P and Mr N were  able to return home 
they had no extra costs for the rental property beyond 23 March  2019. If they had, Id have 
been making Fairmead reimburse them, plus interest.
amount of settlement for repair  work
Ref: DRN03766135Fairmead said it had settled based  on what it would  have cost it to do the work, £10,752.95  
(including £2,916.06 for replacing undamaged parts of the kitchen,  it hasnt confirmed what  it 
paid for damaged parts) (excluding  VAT). But by its choice it wasnt  doing that work. So 
settling on the basis that it did was unfair and unreasonable. It should  have been  settling 
based on Mrs P and Mr Ns cost to complete the work. Because it didnt do that Mrs P and 
Mr N have struggled since to complete what work  they can for the sum Fairmead  paid. 
I understand theyve  found this difficult and because theyve been paying  for work at a lower 
rate, contractors havent always been  minded to provide receipts. That presents me a 
degree of difficulty in terms of evidence  of loss. But I dont think they should be penalised for 
their inability to properly manage  a reinstatement  programme  which  is a position they would  
never have  been  left in if Fairmead  had handled things fairly. As I said above, in my view,  it 
left them  in an untenable position.
I also bear in mind that the price  an insurer  pays for work is almost always far less than the 
complainant will have  to pay in the open  market. How much less varies but often I see it 
being around 20%. I think then that the reasonable way to settle  this is to make  Fairmead  
pay Mrs P and Mr N 20% of the original settlement (not including any amount for the 
replacement kitchen, Ill deal with the settlement for that below). It may be that this work will 
still cost Mrs P and Mr N more than this  but I cant fairly assume that it would.  But I am 
satisfied that is very unlikely that theyd be able to complete the work, in such  a way as to 
return the property  to the state it was before the loss, for anything less than Fairmeads price 
plus 20%. Im not going to award interest on top because this is a compensatory  amount 
rather than being  an exact reimbursement for funds spent. 
Im also not going  to require Fairmead  to pay VAT.  To date Mrs P and Mr N have not been  
able to show me that they paid VAT for work  to their home related to the incident.  They  have 
shown me some bank  payments to places like DIY stores. But I dont know  that the money 
detailed on those transactions  related to work  undertaken as part of the insured repairs 
which Fairmead was liable for. 
kitchen
Despite asking Fairmead for clarity  on this issue, Ive received little detail about the damage 
in the kitchen. Fairmead told Mrs P and Mr N it wouldnt  settle  for replacing  the whole kitchen 
as it wasnt all damaged.  But, prior to the cash settlement being enforced,  it seems it had 
been intending to replace the kitchen  it had instructed  a kitchen manufacture  to measure 
for a new kitchen in October. It has created  a scope which it thinks evidences  the sum it paid 
for undamaged parts of the kitchen. But it hasnt shown a breakdown  for the damaged parts.  
So I dont  know what it accepts was damaged.  And nor has it provided any explanation for 
why it thinks some but not all of it was damaged. Not even  so much as any photos. But 
I note from its file that it was accepted that all of the units in the utility room needed 
replacing, and also that all of the ceilings, walls and floors to both floors of the property  
needed drying. Based on all of this Im not persuaded that Fairmead settled the kitchen  
replacement cost reasonably. I also note that what it did pay was based  on what it would 
cost it to have done the work.  That is also unreasonable. As I understand  it Mrs P and Mr N 
havent yet been able to replace  the kitchen as they havent had sufficient funds to do so. To 
resolve this I think they should obtain like-for-like  estimates for a replacement  and submit 
these to Fairmead. It will have to pay them an additional sum to cover what it will cost them  
to replace the whole  kitchen, less what it has already  paid.   
carpets
Ref: DRN03766136Fairmead has settled for the carpets  on the basis of what  it would have cost it to replace 
them. So Mrs P and Mr N are clear about  what Fairmead has paid, a sum of £1,928.62 was 
allowed for carpeting two living rooms,  the hall/stairs and landing, and 1 bedroom, plus 
£148.00 for a second bedroom. Fairmead  settling in this way was unfair. As it chose not to 
complete that work, fair settlement  must  be based on what it will cost Mrs P and Mr N to do 
the work.  It will need to pay an increased  amount to account for Mrs P and Mr Ns costs for 
replacing the carpets. If theyve replaced the carpets in these  rooms  Fairmead will have to 
settle based on the evidence they have to show what  they paid. If they havent yet replaced 
them they should obtain estimates and send these  to Fairmead.
Fairmead will also have to pay an additional amount in respect  of the third bedroom. Its 
original report says all three-bedroom  carpets  were  damaged. Ive seen no good reason for 
Fairmeads replacement  settlement  to only take into account two of the three bedroom 
carpets. If Mrs P and Mr N have replaced the carpet in the third bedroom then they should 
send proof  of this to Fairmead for it to settle.  If they havent replaced it, they should obtain an 
estimate and send this to Fairmead for it to consider. 
My award for the carpets is different to that made for the overall work. Whilst I can see that 
keeping track of jobs and payments for building work can be difficult especially when one is 
seeking to pay the lowest price,  I dont think its the same for carpets. Carpets are mostly 
purchased through retailers where  clear  records are kept. I think  it is fair to put some liability  
on Mrs P and Mr N to provide some  reasonable proof of their outlay and/or likely outlay for 
carpets before Fairmead has to pay anything more.  
wardrobes
Fairmead ultimately resolved this issue by paying for replacements  and for the cost of 
disposing of the old items. I think that was fair  but I think  it handled  the situation unfairly to 
that point. Fairmead  wouldnt  accept Mrs Ps word that shed been told the items couldnt be 
re-assembled and put her to a lot of trouble as a result  but the evidence which shows  this 
was likely the case was already within  Fairmeads  own file. It shouldnt  have insisted on 
Mrs P and Mr N attempting to restore these items. I dont  doubt they were caused distress 
and inconvenience.  Ive taken this into account  in my compensating award  set out below.
Mrs P says that Fairmead  promised to reimburse  their costs paid to purchase temporary  
storage items. Fairmead has agreed  that is the case and has said it is waiting  to pay £15.00 
and £31.99 being the value of receipts  sent to it. Fairnead says it hasnt paid these sums 
already due to the on-going complaint.  I note Fairmeads agreement  to pay these sums, but 
the complaint  should not have stopped  it reimbursing Mrs P and Mr N. It will need  to do so 
now, plus interest*. To be clear I think it is fair that Fairmead reimburses these sums  Mrs P 
and Mr N needed to do something with the wardrobes contents whilst they sought, under 
direction from Fairmead, to find someone to try to reassemble  them. 
clothing
I do think Fairmeads settlement for clothing was fair. Deducting 10% for wear for all items 
broadly accounts  for the fact that some  are older  and should probably attract a greater 
discount, whereas  some  are newer  so wont be so worn. But Fairmead should have taken 
care to put what it saw as the correct settlement to Mrs P in the first instance. Telling her the 
deduction was 5% then changing that to 10% caused her disappointment as well as a loss of 
expectation. I also understand why Mrs P viewed the change in the deduction  as suspicious 
Ref: DRN03766137as it occurred after Mrs P had challenged Fairmead on some other figures  and it had agreed 
to increase the settlement  in some of those  respects. Ive taken the upset caused regarding 
the clothing settlement into account in my compensation award below.
bath
Mrs P and Mr N have  explained that the bath was damaged during their attempts to switch 
off the water  and/or locate the leak. Fairmead  says it wasnt made aware of this during the 
claim. Whilst I know Mrs P and Mr N say they did mention it, I can find no reference to this 
across Fairmeads papers. Including the loss adjusters initial  damage  report from 
March 2018. But there is clear reference  to a lot of discussions taking place about the 
bathroom in general,  even  including  some relating to minor contents items.  I also see that at 
one time Mrs P and Mr N felt the whole suite should be replaced but Fairmead  said this was 
not necessary.  Yet there is no mention during any of these  talks about the bath being 
damaged as a result  of the activity  undertaken to stem the initial leak.  If Mrs P and Mr N can 
show me that they told Fairmead about  this, or even if there is evidence of them  telling their 
home emergency insurer or contractor about it (which dealt with the initial leak) then Ill 
consider requiring Fairmead to look into the damage.  Otherwise, Im not going to make  
Fairmead do anything  in respect  of the damaged bath.
compensation
As I set out at the start of my findings  I think Fairmead handled  this claim very poorly. My 
findings show the immense upset and distress  Mrs P and Mr N were  caused. I bear in mind 
this was also going on during the latter stages of Mrs Ps pregnancy, during the birth of that 
child, and continued  during the first six  eight months of its life. 
In addition to my detailed  findings set out above I see that, in the early  stages of the claim, a 
failed appointment  by Fairmead caused Mrs P and Mr N to waste a day waiting for 
contractors to arrive. Also,  and as noted  by Fairmead, the adjuster  did little in the early 
stages of the claim to progress things and there were periods of inactivity,  along with Mrs P 
and Mr N not being updated.  There was also a delay due to a miscommunication when 
Fairmead was first seeking to appoint its contractor. 
Im also persuaded  from what I have  seen that the general standard  of work being  carried  
out at the property was poor.  The contractor  should  have spotted  early on if the quality of the 
wallpaper Mrs P had chosen wasnt sufficient for it to complete a decent job in hanging it. 
And I cant see any good reason why even partially  completed wall papering would  leave a 
gap at the top of walls. I think  Mrs P had good  reason to question  the work and she shouldnt 
have been penalised for that by Fairmead downing tools and reverting to settling in cash. 
Fairmead will likely say that it wasnt seeking  to penalise Mrs P and Mr N, but that is what 
they felt was happening, and having seen the file, I think it was reasonable for them to have 
felt that way.
Im satisfied that substantial compensation is fairly and reasonably due in this situation. 
I bear in mind that a total of £500 compensation has already been  paid. Im minded to 
require Fairmead to pay Mrs P and Mr N a further £1,000.
Fairmead said it accepted  my findings. Mrs P and Mr N said they were  generally pleased by 
my findings,  but wished  to make a few comments. They  said:  
Ref: DRN03766138Theyll get estimates to Fairmead for replacing  the kitchen but asked that the disruption 
which will occur when the kitchen is replaced  is take into account.
Theyd never understood why the basis of the clothing settlement changed.
They asked that I review my finding  about the damage to the bath, and provided an 
invoice showing the plumbing repairs theyd done.
They said the compensation wasnt reasonable because Fairmead  should  have paid for 
more rent but hadnt, and theyd  generally been treated very unfairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the family may face some disruption when they replace the kitchen. But 
I cant award compensation for disruption  which hasnt yet occurred.
Im satisfied that regarding the clothing settlement, Fairmead merely changed its mind about 
what it was prepared to offer.  An insurer  can do that. And Im satisfied  that it did not do it to 
spite Mrs P and Mr N on account of them having asked for missed items to be added  to the 
list. But I fully understand  why they believed or were worried this is what  had happened.  
I remain of the view that Fairmead could have handled this better.
The plumbing invoice  provided doesnt show that the bath was damaged. Whilst I accept that 
its possible it was damaged during the initial phases  of the claim, Ive seen nothing  that 
makes me think Fairmead was made  aware  of the damage in the months after it happened. 
Whilst Ive carefully considered what Mrs P and Mr N have  said about this, my view as 
provisionally stated,  hasnt changed.
I dont base my compensation awards  on amounts an insurer would have had to pay if it 
hadnt failed a policyholder during a claim.  Awards like that would be punitive. Compensation 
awarded by this service  is meant to make  up for the distress and inconvenience  caused by 
unfair and unreasonable actions of an insurer. To determine an award amount we look at 
what happened and take into account our guidance  on compensation, as well as what 
awards weve made on other complaints in similar circumstances. My award of 
compensation, which makes the total to be paid by Fairmead £1,500, reflects  the substantial 
distress and inconvenience which Im satisfied Fairmead  caused  them.  Detail of that upset 
was set out in my provisional findings. 
Ive reviewed Mrs P and Mr Ns comments made  in reply to my provisional findings. They 
havent changed my view on what the fair and reasonable outcome is for their complaint. My 
provisional findings now form part of the findings of this, my final decision.
Ref: DRN03766139my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to:
Make  a payment  to Mrs P and Mr N equivalent to 20% of its total settlement for the 
buildings claim less any amount  paid for replacing the kitchen.
Consider estimates provided by Mrs P and Mr N for a replacement kitchen, these should 
be based on a kitchen like that they had before, and make a payment to them to allow its 
full replacement, less any sum it has already paid for that.
Having seen proof of outlay and/or  expected outlay for carpets,  make  an additional 
payment to them based on their cost to replace the carpets  on a like basis,  less anything  
already paid.
Reimburse the sums  of £15.00  and £31.99,  plus interest* from the date each cost was 
incurred until settlement is made.
Pay Mrs P and Mr N a further £1,000 compensation (making the total compensation paid 
£1,500).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 March  2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Fairmead  
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mrs P 
and Mr N, it should tell them  how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs P and Mr N a certificate  showing this if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0376613