K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great  Lakes)  has unfairly declined 
their claim under  their wedding insurance  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs L made a claim for damage to Mrs Ls wedding dress.  They said that during their 
wedding photos,  sparklers caused  several small holes in Mrs Ls dress. The cost to repair it 
was £782. So Mr and Mrs L wanted Great Lakes to cover this amount.
Great Lakes considered the claim under  Section B of the policy terms and conditions which 
relates to ceremonial/bridal attire . Under this section the term says that the policyholder(s) 
will be covered for; Loss of or damage to ceremonial attire within  48 hours prior to and for 
the duration of the wedding and the taking of photographs immediately following the 
wedding by the professional photographer  only.
Great Lakes subsequently declined the claim. It said the policy defines a wedding  as a 
ceremony which creates a contract of marriage  which is legally enforceable in the United 
Kingdom. So as the damage didnt happen 48 hours before  or during the actual contract of 
marriage, it wasnt covered under that part of the term. It also didnt think  the damage  
occurred immediately following the wedding because the contract of marriage took place at 
1pm and the sparklers werent used until later in the evening.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed. They said that Great Lakes had failed to define  the word  
immediately in the policy terms  and conditions, so it was reasonable for them  to think that 
they would  be covered  for any damage that occurred during the taking  of the professional  
photos that happened after their wedding ceremony. Their  photographer didnt stop taking 
photos until 10pm that day, and the damage happened at 9pm  so they think they should 
be covered.
Our investigator agreed with Mr and Mrs L. He said that without a definition  of the word 
immediately, it wasnt clear what timescale the dress was covered for. He didnt think this 
was reasonable  and so didnt think Great Lakes could fairly  rely on this term to decline the 
claim. Great Lakes  disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make  a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold this complaint and 
Ill explain  why.
The issue  I need to decide is whether Great Lakes was entitled to reject  Mr and Mrs Ls 
claim, and whether thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
Mr and Mrs Ls policy covers them for damage  to bridal attire up to £5000.  But like all 
insurance policies,  this cover is subject  to certain terms, conditions and exclusions. So its 
reasonable that Great Lakes considers all of this when deciding the outcome of a claim.
Ref: DRN02663852Great Lakes has said that Mrs Ls damage  to her dress isnt covered under the policy, 
because it didnt occur  before  or during  the actual wedding (contract of marriage). Nor did 
it happen during  the taking of photos immediately following the wedding by the professional 
photographer only.
Ill start by saying, that when providing  a customer with a policy, Great Lakes has an 
obligation to make sure any information  about the policy is clear, fair and not misleading.  
This applies to policy  terms and conditions, so Ive thought carefully  about  whether the term 
Great Lakes is relying on to decline the claim, meets this obligation. 
Its not in dispute  that Mrs Ls wedding dress meets the policy definition of ceremonial  attire . 
Nor is it in dispute that the damage  didnt occur  before  or during the wedding.  But 
Mr and Mrs L argue that the term relating to cover after the wedding,  isnt clear. 
Great Lakes acknowledge there isnt a definition  of immediately in its policy  terms and 
conditions. But it argues that the English dictionary defines the word as at once; instantly or 
without any intervening time or space. It says that Mrs Ls dress  was damaged several  
hours after the wedding finished   so this doesnt meet the definition  of being instant or 
without a gap in time. 
Where a term, word or phrase isnt defined I think its reasonable to use its ordinary 
meaning. That can include  the dictionary definition but I also think  its appropriate, if not 
necessary, to consider it in the context of the subject matter   in this case, a wedding.
Its customary for a wedding to be made up of various parts   the actual wedding  ceremony  
of the couple,  followed  by a celebration,  such  as a meal  often at a separate  location. And 
its usual for photos  to be taken by a professional photographer. And these photos can be in 
segments  the ceremony, before the celebratory meal, during  the celebration, and, as here, 
at other  points such as the fireworks display. 
But the common feature  throughout in this case is that the retained professional  
photographer was taking organised photographs for the wedding  day. The relevant part of 
the policy is this; for the duration of the wedding and the taking of photographs  immediately  
following the wedding  by the professional photographer only.
Its too simplistic in my view, and in the context  of the policy,  to interpret immediately 
following the wedding,  as a narrowly defined place and time because of the nature of a 
wedding celebration and all its component parts. For example, it could be interpreted that as 
soon as the actual ceremony finishes,  immediately  would mean photographs have to be 
taken at that same location and time. That in my view would  be wholly  unfair and be so 
restrictive that Great  Lakes would need  to highlight, at the point  of sale,  how that term 
operates, so that Mr and Mrs L could make an informed decision.
I might  have  some sympathy if the photographs were taken on a different day to the 
wedding. That may well show a complete  separation between the wedding and the 
photographs. But in this case Im satisfied that a professional photographer was engaged in 
photographic activity throughout the duration  of Mr and Mrs Ls wedding  day.
Ref: DRN02663853As is usual  where  theres a lack of clarity  or an ambiguity about what  the words mean, 
interpretation is in favour  of the non-drafting  party   in this case Mr and Mrs L. And Im 
satisfied that the policy  is fairly construed as covering damage to the wedding  dress during 
professional photographic activity. And where  that activity  is directly following the wedding, 
as it was in this case, Im satisfied that extends to the defined periods of professional  
photographs at the various parts of the wedding  day celebrations.  
Mr and Mrs L provided photographic evidence of the sparklers being used in close  proximity 
to Mrs Ls wedding dress and the damage caused. These have been sent direct from their 
professional photographer. Theyve also provided  Great Lakes with proof of purchase  for the 
wedding dress which shows it originally  cost £1350. And an email containing an invoice  from 
a dressmaker which states  it will cost a total of £782 to restore  the dress to its non-damaged  
state. 
This is the amount Mr and Mrs L are claiming  for. And from the information Ive seen, the 
repair cost is within the benefit limit of £5000. Great  Lakes hasnt raised  any other  reason  it 
would look to decline the claim.  And Ive explained  why I dont think  it can decline the claim 
under the term that it has. So subject  to the applicable excess under the policy, I think  
Great Lakes should  pay Mr and Mrs Ls claim in line with the rest of terms and conditions  of 
the policy.
Ive considered all of Great Lakes comments,  including what  its said about questioning  
whether the sparklers  were real, or whether  theyd  been digitally added  after the event. 
Mr and Mrs L provided Great Lakes  with the photographers contact  details, so it couldve 
investigated this point further if it wished  to substantiate this theory with supporting evidence.
But I havent been presented with any evidence of this nature. In my opinion the comments  
Great Lakes put forward about this seem  to be more speculative rather than evidence 
based. So Ive no reason  to fairly  doubt  Mr and Mrs Ls testimony regarding the use of 
sparklers. It follows that on balance  of the information Ive seen, Im not persuaded of 
Great Lakes comments on this and so these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Great Lakes Insurance SE should  therefore pay Mr and Mrs Ls claim for the cost to repair 
Mrs Ls wedding dress at an amount of £782  in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
policy, and subject to the relevant policy excess.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0266385