K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the settlement  that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc offered him when it 
agreed to end their agreement.
background
In June 2018 Mr P entered into a conditional  sale agreement with Santander for a used car. 
However, from the start,  the car was not running right.  At Mr Ps request Santander looked  
into this. It paid an expert to do a report. The expert concluded the car wasnt of satisfactory  
quality when supplied.  On that basis Santander  agreed to end the agreement,  take back  the 
car, refund all his repayments, arrange  to remove information about  the agreement  from Mr 
Ps credit file and return his deposit with interest. It also agreed  that it had taken too long to 
look into his complaint and offered him £100 for this.
However, after the car had been  inspected  and while it was on Mr Ps premises it was 
vandalised. Mr P blamed  the dealership for the vandalism. Santander wouldnt take the car 
back until the damage was put right. Mr P told us his insurers  repaired the car. But, Mr P had 
to pay his insurer a £300 excess charge. All in all, several months  passed  between the 
report and when the car was picked up. Mr P suggested he ran up costs  in this time.
In particular, Mr P was unhappy that he had to pay the £300 he thought  Santander should 
be responsible  for this. He also wanted it to refund  his car insurance and his road tax that he 
paid between the time the report was done and when the car was picked up. He was 
displeased because  it asked him for proof of payment before it would reimburse  these costs.  
He suggested  he ought to have  been  compensated for not having  a car for several months. 
He had told Santander that he had a disability and that he needed a car to get around.  So, 
he had to use taxis.  Santanders response  was to ask for proof of his disability and that hed 
used taxis. Mr P indicated he found this response to be inappropriate. Finally, he wanted 
Santander to increase  the £100 it offered  as he didnt think  this was enough. He mentioned 
that he had received £400 for a different complaint.
Dissatisfied with Santanders response  so far Mr P came to our service.
Santander said it was willing  to reimburse  Mr P for the car insurance and the road tax, if he 
could show that he had paid for them. It didnt agree this was an unreasonable  stance to 
take. It said as well as offering all the redress Mr P had told us about, it had also offered Mr 
P a further £400 for poor service and giving him incorrect information.  It suggested  it had 
only asked Mr P for information  about his disability  to make sure it was giving  him an 
appropriate service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint. She didnt recommend upholding it. She noted  
Mr P had not been able to provide information  to demonstrate it was likely that the 
dealership vandalised his car. She thought  shed  no proper  basis  to ask Santander to 
reimburse the £300 excess charge  as this cost had not arisen due to anything Santander 
had done wrong.  She didnt agree that Santander was acting unreasonably in asking Mr P to 
show he has insured  and taxed the car during the period of time between the report  and the 
car being returned to Santander. Also, she thought it was reasonable that Santander  asked 
for taxi receipts. She recognised Mr P had been  offended to be asked about his disability, 
but she thought Santanders intention had been to try and help him not cause him upset. 
Ref: DRN01663652Santander accepted our investigators recommendations, Mr P did not. That said,  Ive not 
seen any information  to show why he didnt accept  our investigators recommendations.
Mr P asked that an ombudsman review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Under the terms of the agreement Mr P is responsible for keeping the car in good  repair.  He 
is also responsible  for making sure the car was returned in good  repair. He entered freely 
into this agreement. And as a starting  point, it is fair and reasonable I think  that the parties  
should have to stick by the terms of their agreement. So, on the face of it, Mr P was 
responsible for repairing  the car after it was vandalised.
That said,  if were to find that Santander were  responsible for the car being damaged. Then  
Id say it should have taken on the cost of putting things right,  not Mr P. However, the 
information that I have been provided  with about the vandalism of Mr Ps car has been  very 
limited. We have asked Mr P for more details about  this, but he has been unable to supply 
anything more. 
It seems  that the car was vandalised while on Mr Ps premises and that the vandalism 
happened the day after the car was inspected. I appreciate that Mr P believes very strongly 
that the dealership was responsible for this, although why he believes this is not clear.  And 
by extension what he is saying is since he believes  the dealership  did the vandalism and the 
dealers were  acting  as Santanders agent  then Santander ought  to put things right.  But 
based on the information that I have, I cannot  safely conclude  that he is correct about this. I 
say this because  I dont know who vandalised the car, but I dont find I have a fair and 
reasonable basis for saying it was the dealership.  It follows I dont have any grounds for 
saying that Santander ought  fairly  and reasonably  to take responsibility  for this by refunding  
him the £300  he tells us he had to pay to his insurer to repair the car.
Mr P complains about not being refunded for the car insurance and road tax. He tells us he 
paid for these in the period of time after the car was inspected, that is when the car was 
being repaired until the time the car was collected.  But he only had the car during this time 
because the car needed repairs. As I have  said I dont think  Santander  was responsible  for 
this, so I dont agree  it was responsible for these  costs in any event. But it seems  Santander  
agreed to pay these costs, thats its choice to make. 
However, it has asked for proof of payment. Mr P hasnt been able to supply this. We asked 
for his insurers details and let him know we could  get this information  direct from it. But Mr P 
was unable to supply us with these  details. Mr P said he paid for his road tax by direct  debit.  
He was going to provide us with his bank statements to show  this, but I have not been told 
we received these.  I think it is reasonable for Santander to ask for proof  of payment in these 
circumstances. I also think Mr P has been  given a fair chance to provide this information. It 
follows since Mr P hasnt  provided the information I am not going to ask Santander to take 
any further action  in relation to this.
Ref: DRN01663653I dont doubt that Mr P found it difficult to be without  a car, for several months.  I take on 
board, that it is likely he had to get around  by taxi and by relying  on his family as he 
suggests. But Ive already  found  that Santander wasnt responsible  for this. Therefore, 
Santander does  not have  to compensate him for this.
I appreciate that in the midst of what sounds like a very difficult situation, Mr P was upset to 
be asked about  his disability and to provide  further information about  it. Santander  says it did 
this so it could  provide  a better  service  to him. That may be so, but I think  if it had explained 
itself better  Mr P may not have got upset. It seems Mr P felt he was being doubted and I can 
see why that would dismay him.
That said,  Santander has now offered £500 in total for the way it dealt  with him and for how 
long it took to look into his complaint. Mr P has indicated this is not enough. He has not said 
why, other  than to mention the compensation he got for another  separate  complaint.  But that 
is not the yardstick  I have  to use here. I look at his individual complaint and decide what  is 
fair and reasonable in the very particular circumstances of his current  complaint. When I do 
this, I think the offer Santander has made is fair and reasonable.
For all of these reasons, I dont agree it is fair and reasonable to ask Santander to take the 
further action  that Mr P wants.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0166365