K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the poor service he received from National Westminster  Bank  Plc 
when making an international transfer, and about the money  he subsequently lost.
background
On 19 June 2018 Mr H made an online international transfer to a friend from his NatWest  
account and paid extra for speedy processing.  He expected the money to reach his friends 
account in two working days. But when it had not, he contacted NatWest to find out what 
was happening.  
NatWests intermediary bank had asked for clarification of his friends  address, and 
subsequently of his friends  full name, even though Mr H had already provided these. The 
money was then still not credited to his friends account and Mr H contacted NatWest almost 
daily for information. He was variously  told that the intermediary bank was carrying out 
unspecified security  checks, or that the money would be in his friends account the following 
day or that the money  had already been credited to his friends account. Mr H also contacted 
his friends bank who consistently said that the money hadnt  been received.
On 2 July Mr H instructed  NatWest to return his funds. The bank told him that he might 
receive less than he had sent due to exchange rate fluctuations, and he did indeed  lose 
some £300  on the transaction.
In responding  to Mr Hs complaint NatWest apologised for not having done more  to help him 
find out what was happening to his money. But it said it had not been responsible  for delays 
in the transfer  as the intermediary bank  was entitled  to conduct whatever security checks it 
thought necessary.
But NatWest  paid Mr H a total of £111.47:  £50 in recognition of its poor service, £34.47 for 
not crediting his account with the returned money  as quickly  as it should have done and £27 
for his telephone  calls.
Mr H was unhappy that NatWest hadnt refunded his exchange rate loss, the fee he had paid 
for speedy processing and believed it should  have paid more in compensation.
Having set out the timeline of events  our adjudicator concluded  that NatWest  had acted in 
accordance with its terms and conditions in processing Mr Hs international  transfer. Save for 
the compliance checks carried out by the intermediary bank, over which  NatWest  had no 
control, Mr Hs money would more than likely  have  reached his friends account within  the 
stated two working days.
In summary,  our adjudicator thought that the compensation NatWest had paid Mr H for his 
telephone calls, and the trouble  and upset he had been caused was fair and in line with the 
amount  he would have recommended.
Mr H remained  deeply unhappy  about the service he had received  from NatWest, and about 
the money he had lost. He therefore asked  for an ombudsmans review and decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN03483042Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H made  an online  international transfer  to his friend who needed  the money urgently. Mr 
H expected the money to be received by his friend within two working days as indicated by 
NatWests website. But the transfer  didnt  proceed  smoothly as the intermediary bank 
decided to carry out some compliance and security checks. I should make  clear that that 
bank was entitled to do so, and that NatWest  would have  had no control  or specific 
knowledge  of the checks being undertaken or the reason for them.
But once NatWest had been contacted by the intermediary  bank  I consider  that it should 
have acted more  quickly than it did in getting  in touch with Mr H. The reason  Mr H knew that 
there had been  various hold-ups, and that he needed to provide more  details,  was because 
he was in frequent contact with NatWest. That said the intermediary bank didnt ask for all of 
the information it needed at the same  time.  Rather, having received a response to its first 
request, it then asked  further questions. And it would seem that it was also carrying  out 
additional checks over and above the name and address clarification. 
So having  taken account of what happened here I dont consider that NatWest was 
responsible for the delay in processing Mr Hs international  transfer,  although I think it could 
have been more proactive in contacting him when  it knew that further information was being  
requested.
It also seems  that NatWest had little clear idea of what was happening to Mr Hs money 
when he rang for information. Maybe  in an attempt to be reassuring it led him incorrectly  to 
believe that the money was either  already in his friends account and could be collected,  or 
would be so the following day. When the money  didnt then arrive this added to Mr Hs 
concerns about  what was happening.
By 2 July Mr H was so concerned he asked for his money to be returned.  NatWest explained 
that he might  lose money as a result of any exchange  rate changes, but Mr H still wanted his 
money back. NatWest  received the money  on 6 July but didnt credit  it to Mr Hs account 
until 9 July.
Having considered all of the circumstances  here I dont find that NatWest  was responsible 
for Mr H's transfer taking  more than two days. Its terms and conditions also make clear that 
it cannot be held responsible for any loss or delay in transit  resulting from a cause outside of 
its control. And the actions of the intermediary bank were outside of NatWests control. 
Equally the banks terms and conditions say it cannot be held responsible for losses  incurred 
by changes in the exchange  rate, as happened here.
But I consider that NatWest could have helped Mr H more than it did in finding out what  had 
happened to his money. It could also have acted more quickly than it did in contacting  him 
when the intermediary bank was asking  for further  information.
NatWest  paid Mr H a total of £111.47 in compensation  for its poor service,  the exchange 
rate loss he had incurred  when it didnt immediately re-credit his account, and for the 
telephone calls he made. I consider that fair and reasonable given what happened here and 
do not believe I should ask NatWest to do more than it already has. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN03483043My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0348304