K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Sainsburys Bank  Plc charged  her a 3% balance transfer fee when she 
believes no fee should have been  charged.
 
background
In March 2019 Ms A applied for an interest free credit card with Sainsburys via an online 
comparison website. This credit card had a promotional offer whereby if Ms A used it for 
purchases or to make a balance transfer  she wouldnt be charged interest for the first 28 
months. 
At that time Ms A held another credit  card with a different provider, which  had a promotional 
balance transfer  offer of 0% interest. But this incentive was only for 14 months. So, she 
chose to use her Sainsbury  account  to make a balance transfer from another credit  card.
On 16 April 2019 Ms A transferred around  £2700 onto her Sainsbury credit  card.  She 
believed this transfer would be fee free.  But  on checking her online banking she noticed she 
had been charged a balance transfer fee of £83.22. So, on 19 April 2019,  she contacted 
Sainsburys to complain  about the fee she had been  charged.
On 24 April 2019, Sainsbury issued its final response to Ms As complaint. It said it hadnt 
made an error in applying  a balance transfer  fee here. And it wasnt  prepared  to refund the 
fee it had charged  as Ms A wanted.  So, it didnt uphold her complaint. 
Ms A wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. She told our service that in 
order to resolve her complaint she wanted Sainsbury to refund the fee it had charged and 
she wanted it to change the wording  in its documents so that other consumers arent  misled  
as she feels she was. Ms A also said she wanted Sainsbury to compensate  her for the 
trouble and upset  she was caused.
After our investigator looked into Ms As complaint  they didnt  uphold  it. They  thought 
Sainsbury had dealt with matters fairly and reasonably.  And they didnt think  Sainsbury  
needed to do anything more here. But Ms A disagreed and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether Sainsbury acted fairly and reasonably  in charging Ms A 
a 3% fee when she transferred her balance from another card onto her Sainsbury credit 
card. Sainsbury says the card Miss A applied for carries a balance  transfer fee of 3%. But 
Ms A disputes this and believes no fee should have been levied. She believes the 
information she was provided about  the balance transfer promotional offer was unclear. And 
she wants the way in which this information  is presented to be changed.
With this in mind Ive thought about  whether the information about  fees for balance transfers 
is ambiguous and potentially misleading to customers. But Id like to make it clear to Ms A 
that our service cant tell a bank how information  should be presented to a customer on its 
website or in the documentation it produces because thats a matter  for the regulator, the 
Ref: DRN09549242Financial Conduct  Authority. So, I dont have the power to tell Sainsbury  to change  the way it 
presents balance transfer information to its customers in the way Ms A would like. 
On Sainsburys website  it outlines the key benefits of the product it offers, including 
information about the credit card Ms A applied for and was given. Having seen  screenshots 
provided by Sainsbury I can see its website clearly  explains that balance transfers incur a 
fee of 3%. I understand that Ms A says she didnt consider the content of Sainsburys 
website to gain information about  balance transfers. But, based  on what  Ive seen Im 
persuaded that at the point of application Sainsburys had provided clear and unambiguous 
information to potential customers that a fee would be charged on a balance transfer 
transaction.
On Ms As pre contract credit information Sainsbury explains that a 0.00% fee applies on 
transfers made within the first 0 months  (minimum  £3). It goes on to state  the charge will 
depend on a customers current  offer thereafter.  And it recommends customers find out what 
this is by calling.  It seems that Ms A has interpreted this to mean that no balance  transfer  fee 
is charged but that isnt what this says. I can appreciate  that this may have caused confusion 
but I dont agree with Ms A that what is written  is misleading. Its clear to me that this means 
no fee free period applies here. And I think if Ms A wasnt  sure it would have  been  
reasonable for her to contact Sainsbury to check what this meant.  
Ive also seen the credit card agreement that Ms A signed on 16 March 2019. The section 
about charges  clearly  states that Sainsbury  may charge a fee on the amount of a balance 
transfer or money  transfer,  which will vary depending on a customers  current  offer. This 
agreement tells customers  they can find out what the fee is by calling Sainsbury. I think this 
placed the onus on Ms A to check with Sainsbury what fee it would charge before making 
her balance transfer. I understand that Ms A didnt contact Sainsbury to query  whether a fee 
would be charged.  As such, I cant fairly find it has unfairly applied  a fee to the balance 
transfer Ms A made.
Overall, Im satisfied that Sainsbury made reasonable  efforts  to inform Ms A that a fee may 
be charged in the event  that she wanted to make a balance transfer.  And it recommended  
she contact it if she wanted to enquire  of the specific fee she would incur. I havent seen any 
evidence that Sainsbury said there would be a fee free period. 
I know that Ms A will be disappointed by this decision  and I appreciate the reasons why she 
brought her complaint  to our service. But, Im satisfied that Sainsburys is entitled to charge 
the balance transfer fee it applied here. Its in accordance with the terms of Ms As account 
and the information it provided her with. So, I cant say it was wrong  of Sainsbury to apply a 
balance transfer  fee. And I cant fairly  ask it to refund it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0954924