K822xcomplaint
Mr N has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds market valuation  of his car following 
its decision to write  his car off under his motor policy following a theft. 
background 
Mr N s car was stolen in November 2018.  His car was recovered but esure said it 
uneconomical to repair.  It said the pre-accident valuation was £6,244.  
Mr N thought it was worth  a lot more, but esure didnt change  its stance. So Mr N brought his 
complaint to us. He also complained that he had lost personal belongings in the car. Esure  
paid this claim after our involvement,  so I wont be considering this element in this decision.
The investigator was of the view that esures valuation was a little low. She thought esure 
should pay Mr N a total of £6,655. Esure agreed but Mr N didnt.  He thought  the minimum he 
should be paid was £7,000.
So Mr Ns complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint along  the same  lines as the investigator  did. Ill now explain why. 
As the investigator  explained this service  doesnt provide valuations for cars. Instead we look 
to see if the insurer,  esure here, has reasonably valued the car in line with the trade guides 
and the policy terms and conditions.
The trade guides show the actual  selling prices rather than the asking prices and therefore 
are a better guide  on the actual valuation,  rather than the various adverts from trade  and 
private sellers in the motor trade press and media. 
Ive looked at the valuations from the trade guides which  the investigator relied on. These  
confirm the valuations were all based  on the vehicle being in clean condition, which I 
consider is reasonable based  on what condition Mr N believed  his car was in before the 
theft.
The guides  gave valuations of £5,850, £6,590  and £6,720. Like the investigator I consider a 
valuation rounded to £6,655 is reasonable. This is an increase of £411. None of the 
valuations get up to the £7,000 figure which Mr N wished for and therefore I see no reason  
why the valuation of his vehicle should  be increased to that figure. Our approach is that 
reliance on what the trade guides  provide as to valuations, is reasonable and fair.
Mr N confirmed that esure sent him a cheque for £5,550.  Therefore  I consider it should now 
pay him a further  £1,105 adding interest  of 8% simple  per year from the date of its payment 
of the £5,550 to the date it now pays him the £1,105.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN03432252I now require esure  Insurance Limited  to do the following:
Pay Mr N the additional  £1,105  making sure the total paid for the market value of his 
car is £ £6,655.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date of its first payment to Mr N and the 
date of this payment.  If income  tax is to be deducted  from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided  to Mr N for HMRC purposes. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0343225