K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained about his property insurance  broker, Stewart Miller McCulloch  & Co 
Ltd (SMM)  in relation  to the yearly premium for cover it arranged for him over a number of 
years.
background
Dating back to 1998 SMM arranged cover  for Mr G, the price was around £340. The price of 
cover increased year on year until 2005  when the premium for that year was slightly less 
than for the year before.  The price remained static, give or take a few pounds until 2014. In 
2104 it rose by around £30 to £671.  
In 2015 SMM sent the renewal for Mr G for that year. The renewal  letter noted that SMM had 
negotiated with an insurer and moved its entire  property portfolio to it. The price for cover  
was £741.
Mr G was disappointed  by this. He found  cover for around £300.  When he complained  to 
SMM it negotiated with the insurer it was now working with and secured  a different policy for 
Mr G at a price of £315.
Mr G believes  SMM has been guilty  of negligently allowing his premiums  to increase over 
time, just because he hadnt  challenged it. He felt the offer of cover at less than half the price  
of the renewal clearly  evidenced this.
Our investigator felt that new cover at a cheaper  price didnt evidence that SMM  had failed 
Mr G or done anything wrong in previous years. He explained that new cover is often subject 
to discounts and a broker has no control over the price  set by insurers.
Mr G didnt think our answer was fair. He didnt think wed taken into account  that it was 
SMM that was able to provide a cheaper price  when challenged. And that at around half of 
that it had been charging since circa  2005. He said SMM, as his broker, should have been 
keeping note of the ever increasing prices and challenging the insurers  when they became 
excessive. 
The complaint was passed  to me for consideration. I felt as our investigator had that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld but my reasoning differed somewhat from his. I issued a 
provisional decision. My provisional findings were:
SMM is a broker. Whilst it does take commission from premiums, it doesnt set the 
premiums charged for cover. The insurers do. So I cant blame it for the price insurers have 
offered for cover for Mr G.
But SMM as a broker is meant  to look out for the needs of its client, Mr G. Brokers operate  
on many  different levels. For example, some offer cover on an advised basis  taking their 
customers needs into account before recommending a product, and some non-advised  
meaning policies  are offered but not recommended as being suitable.  In terms of what  type 
and level of service a policyholder can expect its important to consider the terms of business 
document which sets out the contractual liabilities. 
SMMs terms  of business have changed over the years. But Ive not seen any suggestion 
that SMM ever promised  to find and offer Mr G the best price available  on the market.  
Ref: DRN06279452Rather SMM agreed to make a recommendation for cover for Mr G taking into account  his 
needs and based on the cover available to it from a range of insurers.  
I can see that SMM did this. When Mr Gs needs changed SMM  reviewed the options 
available to him. Having done that it made recommendations.
In 2015 the way SMM operated changed. This is reflected in the terms of business sent to 
Mr G with his renewal  offer that year, and within the renewal letter itself. For the type of 
insurance Mr G had, SMM only now used one insurer (as opposed to a range as in previous 
years). Its entitled to do that as long as it treats all its customers the same and gives fair 
notice of the change. Im satisfied that is the case here. 
It isnt clear to me how SMM was able to negotiate a policy at such a reduced cost when 
Mr G complained. But I note it was provided by the same insurer that SMM had recently  
transferred its portfolio  of business to. In any event, Ive not seen anything that makes me 
think SMM  could have obtained a policy at this price for Mr G in previous years but chose 
not to offer such  to him. The fact it could arrange cover for that price in 2015 doesnt 
necessarily mean it could have done  so in the years before.  
Importantly SMM never contracted with Mr G to find him the cheapest  premium.  Nor did it 
ever imply that was what it was going  to do.
Whilst Mr G had remained a client of SMMs  over many years, the cover SMM arranged 
didnt stay with the same  insurer throughout that time. And SMM wasnt  responsible for the 
prices set for cover.  So, Mr G hasnt been  subject to the type of unfair price increases that 
can sometimes occur when  a policyholder  doesnt  change their insurer  for a long time.  
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment  to Mr G but I do think  SMM provided 
service to him in line with the terms it set out and Mr G, by utilising SMMs services, agreed 
to. If Mr G believed and/or  feels it should have done  more, Im not persuaded that has 
resulted from any failure or misdirection of SMM.  I dont think  SMM did anything  wrong.
SMM said it accepted my findings. Mr G was unhappy with them. 
In summary  Mr G said:
It had taken a long time for his complaint  to reach the decision stage of our process. 
He is concerned that I seem to have invented  a new defence  for SMM whilst not referring 
to his arguments raised in respect of SMMs reasoning set out in its final response.  
He felt my argument that insurers set the premium  was flawed because Id also stated 
that SMM had negotiated the 2015  premium. 
Hed commented previously about SMMs  actions  when his situation changed in 2005  
and he felt I hadnt taken that into account.  
If Id read the terms Id referred to I should  surely have quoted  them. 
I should provide  evidence  to support everything  Ive said, and particularly that SMM 
never promised to provide him with the cheapest cover. 
He wants to see examples of what our service would consider to be inertia selling. 
Regardless of the small  print of his contract with SMM, it had overcharged him 
significantly over several years and he should fairly be recompensed for that. 
Ref: DRN06279453my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr G has waited  a while for his complaint to reach  the decision stage of 
our process. My colleague is dealing with Mr Gs complaint in this respect.
I havent invented  a defence for SMM  or ignored Mr Gs arguments as to why he thinks  SMM 
failed him. Rather  Ive looked at Mr Gs complaint and what  happened as shown  by the 
evidence available. Ive taken into account the way the industry  works  and what  role SMM 
played in the situation here. Putting all that together  Ive decided  whether SMM  acted fairly 
and reasonably or not. My decision  is that it didnt fail Mr G.
Insurers do set the premiums for cover. But that doesnt mean  that negotiations cant take 
place. And it is the price  of the insurance cover that the insurer sets.  Sometimes  that might 
take into account any commission that it is then required to pay the broker.  Or sometimes a 
broker adds its commission on top. That doesnt change the fact that the insurer sets the 
price for the cover it is providing/underwriting. Whether using a broker  is worth that extra  
cost, for the brokers service on top of the cost of cover, is for the individual  to decide.
When Mr Gs needs changed in 2004 SMM  did take action to ensure his new needs were  
met. It noted the change hed told it about and, when the renewing insurer  said it couldnt 
cover that, it found Mr G an insurer who could. So it did act in line with its terms of business.  
Mr Gs point regarding his change  in needs  was that when he questioned the premium 
around this time it reduced the following  year. That doesnt detract or impact on my finding 
about SMM  acting to meet his needs  in terms of the cover required.
I dont always quote from documentation when I refer to it in a decision.  In this case I felt 
summarising what Id seen was appropriate.  
Mr G was sent copies of SMMs terms of business.  I can arrange for them to be copied to 
him again if he wants to see them. Our rules require us to provide a written  statement of our 
findings which includes our reasoning  and that is what Ive done.
Each case is considered  on its own merits. Im not persuaded  it would be appropriate for me 
to set out here in which hypothetical situations we might consider that inertia  selling had 
occurred. If Mr G wants to find out more about this topic he could take a look at our 
previously issued decisions that can be found through our website.  
I appreciate that Mr G thinks SMM  failed him. But, having considered everything, I dont 
agree that is the case. Im not persuaded there was cover at a lower rate available  to Mr G in 
previous years or that if there was SMM  failed him by not finding  it for him. 
For me to make an award  against  a financial  business I have to be satisfied that there was 
some kind if failure by it and that the complainant lost out as a result.  Just because Mr G 
believes fervently that this happened here,  doesnt mean that it did or give me grounds for 
upholding the complaint  as made  against SMM.  
Whilst Ive considered Mr Gs points in response, Im not minded to move  away  from my 
provisional findings. They now form part of this final decision.
Ref: DRN06279454my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Stewart Miller McCulloch & 
Co Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0627945