K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that the hire purchase  agreement financed by BMW  Financial Services  (GB)  
Limited was misrepresented. He wants to be released from the terms of the agreement.
background
Mr O tells us that in late 2017 he obtained  a vehicle through a dealer Ill refer to as S. He 
says it was always his intention that the vehicle should be paid for and used by his nephew. 
And that S had been aware of this throughout the process. Mr O states he doesnt  hold a 
driving licence. He says that S told him that once the agreement  had gone through it would 
be possible  for details  to be transferred into his nephews name. But later - when he rang to 
change the bank account details - he says he was told that he was in breach of the 
agreement. He states that the agreements since been terminated.  And that this has left him 
with a debt of over £40,000. Mr O believes the agreement was misrepresented and that he 
shouldnt be bound by it.
BMW told us that finance agreement was only accepted  on the basis  that Mr O had told S 
that hed misplaced his driving licence. As a result it said that details  from his passport had 
been used to support the application. It said it had later found that Mr O had breached other 
terms of the agreement. BMW said a default  notice had been  issued  in September  2018  and 
the agreement  had been terminated in October  2018.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He thought Mr O ought  to 
have been aware  he couldnt  obtain finance on behalf of his nephew. And he found  that Mr 
O had also breached the terms  and conditions of the agreement. He said that BMW had 
issued a default notice and - as Mr O hadnt  complied with terms of that notice - it had 
terminated the agreement correctly.
Mr O didnt accept this outcome and maintained  hed never said hed misplaced his driving  
licence. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans  been asked to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr O has found himself in this difficult situation and I can understand his 
concern at being faced with such a large  repayment demand.
Mr O is alleging the terms of the finance agreement were misrepresented. 
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer to enter an 
agreement and as a result of the misrepresentation to suffer  a loss. Relevant legislation here 
is the Consumer  Credit Act of 1974. And whilst I dont apply the law - directly - I do take it 
into account.
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory  - as some of it is here - Im required to 
resolve disputes of fact on the balance of probabilities. And that includes considering  
documentary information as well as testimony  from the parties.
Ref: DRN07787512The main  dispute  in this complaint relates  to the details of the pre-agreement discussions 
between Mr O and S. Mr O is adamant that he was told it was in order  for him to use his 
details to obtain finance on behalf  of his nephew.  BMW says that the notes its recorded 
indicate Mr O told S that hed misplaced his driving licence. And that the agreement  was 
then approved using details from his passport. 
I cant say one way or the other  whether  or not Ss representative misunderstood what  Mr O 
had told him about  the reason for not being able to show a driving licence. But one of the 
main reasons for providing a consumer with a written explanation and a copy of an 
agreement is to try to prevent mistakes and/or misunderstandings occurring.
I accept its tedious  to read through pages of terms and conditions  - particularly if its thought 
the contents are already known. But if a consumer doesnt read them thats  not a valid 
reason for a business not to be able to rely on the terms and conditions.
Its not in dispute  that Mr O signed the finance agreement - he admits this was his biggest 
mistake. And this included a declaration  that hed been provided with the explanation 
document and pre-contract credit  information. I can see that the explanation  document 
states:
Your key obligations  will be:
1)
 2) to keep  the vehicle in your possession  and control. You must  not take out the credit 
agreement on behalf of someone else;
And in the terms and conditions of the agreement it states:
4. (g) keep the vehicle in your possession and under your control and not allow  someone 
other than you to become registered at the DVLA as the vehicles  registered  keeper.
I think its clear  from this that Mr O knew, or ought  reasonably to have known, he shouldnt 
be making the application on behalf  of his nephew.  And if he had any doubts  I think  its to be 
expected hed have raised a specific query prior to signing the agreement.
And I dont  believe that Mr O would find it plausible to think  that the obligations of a finance 
agreement could be transferred to his nephew within a month or so of the agreement  being 
entered. Particularly so when the reason for Mr O taking out the agreement  in his name  was 
presumably that his nephew was unable to access finance. So I dont think theres been a 
misrepresentation.
Even though  BMW wouldve been  entitled  to terminate the agreement immediately I can see 
it held off from doing so. And in September 2018  it issued  a notice of default advising Mr O 
of the steps he needed  to take to avoid termination of the agreement and the repossession 
of the vehicle. This included proving the vehicle was insured in Mr Os name;  recovering  
possession of the vehicle and being  the registered  keeper. The default notice required these 
actions to be completed before 19 October  2018.
Ref: DRN07787513I can see that Mr O provided a copy of an insurance  certificate in his name and valid from 
6 November 2018 - after the date for complying with the requirements of the default notice 
had expired. And theres a note on BMWs  system from 29 November 2018  that a DVLA  
enquiry showed  the registered  keeper was a limited company and not Mr O. A company 
search reveals a director of that company is Mr Os nephew.
As Mr O hasnt  complied with the terms of the default notice I cant say BMW  was unfair  in 
terminating the agreement. And BMW also informed us that no payments have been made 
on the agreement  since November 2018.
In summary,  Im not satisfied that the finance  agreement was misrepresented. And given 
that BMW provided Mr O with an opportunity to avoid the termination of the agreement I 
believe its acted fairly.  Accordingly,  Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0778751