K822xcomplaint
Mr M, represented by Mrs M, complains that the kitchen he paid for using a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants a full refund, 
remedial work carried  out and compensation.
background 
Mr M entered into a loan agreement with Hitachi capital to acquire a kitchen. The kitchen 
was fitted later that year however there  were  a number of issues.  Mrs M says that a key 
issue was that the tap was fitted too close to the windowsill and so doesnt function properly. 
There were also a number of other issues including damage to a wall, issues with appliances  
and the need to call the alarm company due to an appliance interfering with a sensor 
(referred to as the PIR).
Mr M says the kitchen wasnt fitted  with reasonable skill or attention and so a breach  of 
contract had arisen.  He contacted Hitachi Capital  saying  that it was liable for the issues  with 
the kitchen and requesting it: 
1.refund  the cost of the kitchen
2.cover  the costs of the parts required to finish the kitchen  as agreed with the 
installations manager and the costs  of getting  the kitchen fitting completed and 
usable;
3.reimburse the costs  of certain appliances  (fridge, freezer and dishwasher);
4.cover  the costs of redecorating the kitchen;
5.cover  the costs of making good damage to the dining room  wall;
6.cover  costs of fitting the quartz upstands  and windowsill and rectify  all issues  with the 
worktops;
7.refund  the cost of the alarm company call out; and
8.pay £2,500  for the inconvenience  caused.
Hitachi Capital says that Mr M agreed to acquire a kitchen in February 2017 part financed by 
a fixed sum loan agreement with it. It says he contacted it in August 2017 about the tap 
being installed too close to the wall. It says the supplier visited  Mr Ms house and initially a 
different sink was to be ordered but Mr M then said this wouldnt work so alternative options 
were given to Mr M but these were rejected. It says there were then further delays caused by 
Mr M.
Hitachi Capital says the supplier confirmed the kitchen had been delivered and it was 
remedial action that was required and so it believed it reasonable that it started to take 
payments. It says payments had been  delayed from November 2017 to March 2018 as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Our investigator explained that the complaint  was against Hitachi  Capital and so she could  
only hold it responsible for loss arising  from the agreement. She said that the service  
provided by the supplier  and specialist work that fell outside of the agreement werent the 
responsibility of Hitachi  Capital. She initially  recommended that Hitachi Capital:
provide Mr M with a choice of ten similarly priced taps capable of functioning fully in the 
current position of the drilled  hole. The cost to be covered  by Hitachi  Capital; 
refund  25% of the monthly instalments that have been  paid until the above work has 
been carried out, and the remainder of the works  under  the agreement  have  taken place;
Ref: DRN08791072refund  the cost of the fridge, freezer and dishwasher as per the agreement, and arrange 
to collect the items at no cost to Mr M. The refund  should also have 8% simple  interest  
added from the date Mr M had paid for the replacements up until the date of settlement;
arrange for the supplier or other  suitably qualified individual to repaint the damaged  wall;
refund  the call out cost for the alarm company of £252 adding 8% simple interest from 
the date of payment (3 August  2017) up until the date of settlement.
Following our investigators view, Hitachi Capital  offered the following (and said that that the 
stock needed  for the remedial works would be provided):
Action Option 1 Option 2
Complete the remedial  works as per the plan Y
Pay £750  for the three days work needed to complete  the 
kitchen (excluding  the worktops as carried out by separate 
supplier) as per the planY
Offer Mr M an alternative tap of similar  value which is 
suitable for the design agreed  in store or find alternatives 
from another retailer and refund Mr M for the tap he 
purchased (subject  to the receipt being  provided)Y Y
Pay £250  towards the cost of the decoration  of the room with 
the damaged  wallY Y
Refund the cost of the fridge Y Y
Refund cost of the dishwasher (once receipt  provided) Y Y
Worktop supplier will then complete the remaining works with 
the worktop as per the current  planY Y
Hitachi Capital said it wouldnt cover the cost of the alarm company call out as Mr M agreed  
to the kitchen design and so changes to the PIR would have always been needed. It said the 
worktop had to be completed  by the supplier  as this was bespoke and that if Mr M moved 
away from the original  plan he would need  to pay for the new templating and upstands / sills. 
It said the cost of this wouldnt  be covered as the issue  could  be resolved by changing the 
tap. It also said that the cost of the freezer wouldnt be refunded.
Our investigator thought the options set out by Hitachi Capital were reasonable although she 
believed the cost of the freezer should  also be refunded. Hitachi Capital  didnt agree the 
freezer cost should  be refunded and Mr M didnt agree with the options offered by Hitachi 
Capital.
As a resolution hasnt  been found this case has been passed to me, an ombudsman,  to 
issue a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN08791073Mr M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi  Capital to pay for a kitchen. 
Under the regulations, Hitachi Capital can, in certain  circumstances, be held liable if there 
was either  a breach of contract  or misrepresentation.
The kitchen was installed in June 2017  however a number of issues arose  including  issues 
with the units  not opening  correctly and not being  properly aligned,  certain  parts needing 
replacing, issues with the worktop and appliances  and the tap not being  able to be used as it 
should. Given all the issues raised and the nature of these I accept that the kitchen wasnt  of 
a satisfactory standard when fitted in 2017 and that a breach of contract had occurred.
Hitachi Capital, working with the supplier, has accepted  that there were issues with the 
kitchen and has provided an offer to resolve  these. I have looked  through  the two options 
offered and find these  provide a reasonable remedy in regard to the remedial work required, 
redecoration of the damaged wall, and refunds for the cost of the fridge and dishwasher.
A key issue  in this case relates to the tap. Hitachi Capital has provided an offer to resolve 
this issue by saying  it will provide Mr M with an alternative tap of similar  value which is 
suitable for the original design  agreed  or find alternatives from another retailer and refund 
Mr M for the tap he purchased (subject to the receipt  being provided). I understand that Mr 
and Mrs M have spent a lot of time on this issue  and put forward an alternative  suggestion  of 
how work could be undertaken to enable the current tap to operate fully.
While I understand the suggestion Mr and Mrs M have made in regard  to this issue, and that 
they had on occasions been  told this would be possible, there have also been  concerns 
raised about the suggestion. Given the concerns  raised I do not find I can say that the 
suggestion of a diagonal fit would  be successful and I dont think  that Hitachi  Capital should 
be required  to take this approach given the concerns  raised by the suppliers.
I appreciate that Mr M may not consider  the offer made by Hitachi  Capital to be sufficient but 
I find it reasonable. I say this because Mr M ordered  a kitchen with a tap to be installed. The 
tap Mr M purchased doesnt work with where  the hole has been  drilled  and so I find that 
Hitachi Capital is liable  to ensure an operating tap of similar value is fitted.  The offer delivers 
this.
Hitachi Capital has also said that worktop  supplier will complete the remaining work in regard  
to the worktop  as per the current plan which again  I find reasonable.
There is an outstanding  dispute about  whether  the cost of the freezer  should  be refunded. 
Hitachi Capital has not accepted that this cost should be covered. Our investigator 
recommended that it should. I have looked  through the information regarding  the freezer and 
can see that Mr and Mrs M say the front of the freezer was damaged when it was being 
installed and that they contacted the supplier  on 9 June 2017  and it was agreed it would be 
replaced. I dont have any further evidence of this offer and the supplier  disputes  it but I 
accept that had damage been noticed  Mr and Mrs M would have reported this. The supplier 
says the freezer is functioning  and the damage  is to the freezer  door and as this is a built in 
freezer the damage wouldnt be visible.
On balance while I understand  the points made by the supplier, I have looked at the 
photograph and can see there was some  damage. This may be relatively minor but when  
paying for a new appliance it is reasonable to expect it not to be damaged (particularly  when 
installation is part of the service). Mrs M sent an email in December 2017 about getting  a 
replacement freezer given  the conversation she had previously  had about  a replacement 
Ref: DRN08791074and I find it more likely than not that she wouldnt have done this had she not believed  that 
the supplier would refund her the cost of the original freezer. Based on this, I feel the fairest  
resolution is for the cost of the original freezer to be refunded.  
Another outstanding issue relates  to the cost incurred by Mr M to call out his alarm  company 
due to the PIR being triggered  by the installation  of an appliance. I note the comment that 
Mrs M has made that the supplier built the frame to house the freezer and knocked  the PIR 
when doing so and after this issues occurred which meant the alarm company had to be 
called out and action taken. However, as the PIR was in place before the installation of the 
kitchen I think it reasonable that this would have been  removed  before the freezer  housing 
was built to avoid  any issues. Adjustments  to the alarm system werent part of the installation  
and I dont find I can say that Hitachi Capital is responsible for this cost.
Overall, I find that the offers put forward by Hitachi Capital are reasonable in regard  to the 
remedial work that is required. Additional to this I think the cost of the original freezer should 
be refunded. 
Our investigator had initially said that 25% of Mr Ms payment should be refunded until the 
work is completed. I appreciate that the kitchen hasnt been  fully operational since 
installation and that Mr and Mrs M have had to spend time dealing with this complaint. 
However I can also see that the delays havent necessarily been due to the supplier or 
Hitachi Capital. I also note that Mr and Mrs M have alternative facilities.  Based on this I find 
the recommendations made above  reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc should: 
either complete  the remedial works as per the plan or pay Mr M £750 for the three days  
work needed to complete the kitchen (excluding  the worktops as carried  out by separate 
supplier) as per the plan. This is for Mr M to decide and communicate to Hitachi Finance;
offer Mr M an alternative  tap of similar  value which is suitable for the design agreed  in 
store or find alternatives from another retailer and refund  Mr M for the tap he purchased 
(subject to the receipt being provided), 
pay £250 towards the cost of the decoration  of the room  with the damaged  wall;
refund  the cost of the fridge;
refund  cost of the dishwasher (once receipt provided),
arrange for the worktop supplier to complete the remaining worktop work  as per the 
current plan.
refund  Mr M the cost of the original freezer that was damaged.
All stock needed for the remedial works  to also be provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0879107