K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds  settlement  of her 
pet insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
Mrs J will note that my decision is about her as sole complainant rather  than as a joint 
complainant with her husband, as mentioned in our previous correspondence. Mrs J is the 
insured person under the policy and the correct complainant for me to make my decision 
about. The change  hasnt affected  the outcome of my decision.
background
In March 2017 Mrs J took out pet insurance for her dog with Red Sands, which she renewed  
in 2018. The policy gave life time cover while the policy was in force  with a medical 
condition annual limit of £6,000.
Mrs Js dog needed ongoing treatment and her vet made three claims:
in October 2017 a claim  for £570.61  covering treatment  from 22 September 2017 to 
5 October 2017. Red Sands paid the claim, less the excess
on 8 January 2018 a claim for £2,182.10  covering treatment from 7 October 2017 to 
13 December 2017. Red Sands  paid the claim. But as the claim was received a 
few days after 90 days from the date of first treatment Red Sands warned Mrs J in its 
settlement letter  that the policy terms required claims  to be submitted  within  90 days.  
Red Sands letter said no further costs would  be covered if claimed  for after 90 days 
on 14 May 2018 a claim for £2,327.78 for treatment from12 January 2018 to 7 March 
2018. 
Red Sands  paid £168.78 for the third claim. It wouldnt pay the £2,159 balance as those 
costs werent claimed for within 90 days of the treatment taking place.
Mrs J complained to us. She said the vet had directly claimed from Red Sands and she 
hadnt been aware any claim  had been submitted late. Also the policy  terms were  
ambiguous about  when  the 90 days started. Her vet thought the 90 days  ran from the last 
treatment date, not the start of treatment.
Our investigator thought Red Sands hadnt acted fairly. Under the Financial Conduct  
Authority (FCA) rules  an insurer is unreasonable to reject a claim for breach of warranty or 
condition unless the circumstances of the claim are connected to the breach. Also there  was 
no evidence Red Sands had been  disadvantaged  by the claim being  made  after the time 
limit. Our investigator said Red Sands should  pay the outstanding claim amount in line with 
the remaining  policy terms  and limits.
Red Sands  disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said the 90 days time limit 
was clear in the policy and it had warned Mrs J. Red Sands also said it gave the timeframe 
as the number and cost of previous claims impacted  on the policy renewal  price  and if it paid 
Mrs Js claim it wouldnt  be treating its other  customers  fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN00849162I need to decide whether Red Sands fairly  and reasonably limited  its settlement of the third 
claim, and I dont think it did. I uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
The policy excludes:
the cost of any treatment if a claim has not been  submitted within  90 days  of the 
treatment. 
The Key Facts of the policy highlights theres an exclusion  of:
Any claim which is not notified within 90 days of the treatment.
The conditions of settling  claims set out in the policy include that Red Sands:
reserve the right to refuse a claim where  a fully completed claim has not been 
returned to us without undue delay  and in any event 90 days of the date the 
treatment being  claim  for was carried out.
However, I accept Mrs Js point that where  a pet had continuing  treatment, as in this case, 
there is some ambiguity in the policy  wording. I dont  think  the wording is sufficiently clear 
that the 90 days is from the start of treatment. Where theres ambiguity its fair to give an 
interpretation in favour  of the non-drafting  party.  So as the claim was made within 90 days  of 
the last treatment date it would  be fair for Red Sands to pay the claim.
But even if I thought the policy wording  wasnt ambiguous, the FCA rules set out in the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) are clear  that an insurer  unreasonably 
rejects a claim for a breach of warranty or condition unless the circumstances of the claim 
are connected to the breach.
Theres no evidence that the circumstances of the claim are connected to the breach of the 
time limit policy term. So I think its unreasonable for Red Sands to limit the claim just 
because the claim was made outside  the 90 days time limit in its policy.
As to Red Sands  being disadvantaged, I note it bases its policy  renewal price  on the number 
and cost of previous claims. But the 2018  policy renewal date occurred within  90 days of the 
12 January 2018  and Mrs J told us she didnt  renew  the policy in 2019. So theres no 
evidence that Red Sands has been  disadvantaged in this case.
Red Sands  says that if it has to pay this claim it wont be treating its other customers fairly. 
But I make  my decision based on whether it treated Mrs J fairly in the circumstances  of this 
complaint. For the reasons Ive given  above  I dont think it did.
The fair and reasonable outcome is for Red Sands to pay the balance of the disputed third 
claim, detailed above, in line with the remaining policy  terms and limits. If Mrs J has already 
paid the vet any of the disputed amount Red Sands must add interest  as Ive detailed  below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN00849163I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Mrs J the balance of the 
disputed claim subject  to the remaining policy terms and limits. If Mrs J has paid the vet any 
of the disputed amount interest* must be added at 8% simple  a year from the date she made 
the payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020. 
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs J how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mrs J a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0084916