K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the level of service the valuation  of his van provided by AXA 
Insurance UK Plc after a claim  on his commercial motor insurance  policy. He wants a 
settlement offer thats correct.
background
Mr T was involved in an accident and his van was damaged. AXA said the van was beyond  
economical repair and offered  Mr T £2,000  as its pre-accident  market value. The final 
settlement to Mr T was £1,080 with the deduction of the £400 policy excess,  £60 for a 
missing MOT, and the £460 salvage  as Mr T wanted  to retain  the van. But Mr T was 
unhappy with the valuation and the time it took AXA to pay him the settlement. He was also 
unhappy that he hadnt been provided with a courtesy vehicle. AXA offered Mr T £200 for its 
delays in making him an offer.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  AXAs 
valuation had been made according to our approach  and was fair and reasonable. She 
thought AXA had caused delays of two weeks in the claim but she thought  its offer of £200  
compensation for this was fair. She didnt  think Mr T was entitled to a courtesy vehicle under 
his policys terms and conditions. 
AXA later reclaimed its outlay from the other drivers  insurer. This included Mr Ts £400 
excess which it refunded  to him. Mr T asked for his complaint to be reviewed, so its come  to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T was initially unhappy  with the settlement  AXA offered him and that he hadnt  been  
provided with a courtesy van. He also thought AXA hadnt kept him updated  and hadnt  
settled the matter as quickly as he thought it should.  I can understand that being involved in 
an accident and making a claim can be a stressful and frustrating  experience. 
Mr T thought his van was worth around £2,500. He said he couldnt find a like for like 
replacement for AXAs  offer.  I can see that he provided ads for similar vans at higher prices. 
The investigator has explained this services approach  to car valuations in that we dont 
provide valuations for vans but seek to assess whether  the insurers  offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
Ive seen that AXA instructed an independent engineer  to assess  the value of Mr Ts van. He 
looked for the van in the three trade guides  we use and found  it valued  in two of these. He 
made deductions for the vans condition which he thought was average  for its age and 
mileage. This gave  a valuation for the market  value of the van of £2,000. 
Ref: DRN00691142Our investigator checked how these valuations were made and Ive looked at what  she 
found. I think the valuations took into account  the vans make,  model, age, mileage, 
condition and features.  So I think the independent engineers  valuation  of the vans market  
price at the time of its loss was fair and reasonable 
Mr T thought his van was worth more as it had a different engine. But I can see that the 
engineer used the correct make, model and registration number for Mr Ts van. I havent  
seen any further  engineering evidence  to challenge his view.  So I think  it was reasonable for 
AXA to rely on it. 
Mr T provided ads of vans advertised  at higher prices. But I think  these arent in the same 
condition as his van. So I cant say it was unreasonable for AXA to discount  these.  In any 
case, we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking 
prices and arent selling  prices. Its for this reason  that the trade guides are used  as they 
provide evidence of likely retail selling prices.  
So I think AXA valued Mr Ts van correctly  according to our approach and the policy terms 
and conditions. So I think its final offer of £2,000 for the market  value of the van was fair and 
reasonable. AXA then deducted the policy excess, the salvage value and the cost of an 
MOT. It paid Mr T £1,080  in settlement of his claim. I think this was fair and reasonable.
I can see that the other insurer  refunded  Mr Ts policy excess  to AXA and it has passed this 
to him. 
Mr T said he was offered a courtesy van after the collision  but this wasnt  provided. I can see 
that Mr Ts policy doesnt provide a courtesy vehicle in the case  of a total loss settlement.  
This is only provided by the policy if the van is at an approved repairer. 
Mr T told us he was offered a replacement van by his broker but heard nothing more after 
the other drivers insurer  disputed liability. It may be that he was offered a replacement van 
through a credit hire and repair company but this would only deal with the claim  if it was non-
fault. But I cant see evidence that AXA offered Mr T a courtesy van.
Mr T said hed been waiting many months for his claim  to be settled. But I think  AXA only 
needs to consider delays that occurred  before  it made its settlement offer to Mr T and sent 
him his payment. During  this time,  AXA agrees it didnt respond  to Mr Ts further evidence  
for two weeks. It paid his £200 compensation for this. I think that was fair and reasonable as 
its what Id require in similar situations. I dont require AXA to pay Mr T any further 
compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0069114