K821x#15complaint
This service is currently looking into two separate complaints Mr M has made about his 
Scottish Equitable  Plc (Aegon) pension plan. A number  of points hes raised on both 
complaints overlap where hes repeated the same points of dissatisfaction. 
This final decision considers the main issues raised by Mr M in his second complaint, 
namely the poor service and delay he says he experienced  when taking  a partial lump sum 
from his plan. Hes also unhappy  about the UK income tax deducted at source from that 
lump sum payment.
Mr Ms first complaint  and the issues that overlap  will be dealt  with separately under a 
different final decision  in due course.
background
Mr M lives overseas. During 2017  he contacted  Aegon to discuss the options available  to 
take benefits from his plan.  After initially providing  incorrect information on 17 October, 
Aegon correctly  confirmed  to Mr M on 23 October that he could take all or part of his plan as 
a lump sum at different  times (as an Uncrystallised Funds Pension Fund Lump  Sum).
On 23 November Mr M told Aegon that, for tax reasons, he wanted to take two lump sums 
from his plan; one before the end of 2017  and the remaining balance  in 2018. He didnt  
specify the split of lump  sums required.
On 5 December  Aegon  emailed Mr M to establish how much of his plan he wanted to 
partially take as a lump sum before  the end of 2017. Mr M replied on the same day and 
confirmed he wanted to take 50% of his plan as a lump sum in 2017 and the remaining 
balance during 2018.
On 6 December  Aegon  sent the necessary forms to Mr M to complete. It told him that if he 
wanted to partially  take some of his plan as a lump  sum before the end of 2017  he should 
return the forms by recorded delivery  as soon as possible.
On 29 December Aegon received the forms from Mr M. It requested certain payment details 
from Mr M. It received these on 3 January  and consequently used the unit price as at                 
5 January. It then paid Mr M a partial  lump sum of £43,625.93, representing 50% of his plan, 
on 10 January by bank  transfer.
Mr M was unhappy about the delay in receiving  the partial lump  sum. So he contacted  us 
since we were already  looking  into his first complaint about Aegon.  In this second complaint 
he repeated several  points of dissatisfaction already made  under the first complaint. The key 
difference in the second complaint mainly concerned the delay  in receiving the partial lump  
sum and the UK income tax deducted at source.
Aegon looked into this second complaint and didnt  uphold it. This was because it was 
satisfied it had handled correctly and in a timely  manner Mr Ms request for a partial  lump  
sum once  he confirmed his intentions on 5 December.
Ref: DRN04143722Our adjudicator didnt  agree with Aegons  assessment  and instead  upheld in part this 
complaint. This was because Aegon had initially provided incorrect  information to Mr M on                       
17 October about the option to take a partial  lump sum (at that time it incorrectly  told him he 
had to fully crystallise his entire plan).  But she was satisfied Aegon  then issued the correct 
information on 23 October. She felt provision  of the incorrect  information would have caused 
Mr M confusion and frustration. As a result, she recommended Aegon apologise to Mr M and 
pay him £100 compensation. Other than the provision of this incorrect  information, our 
adjudicator didnt think Aegon had made any other  error  or treated Mr M unfairly. 
In response, Aegon accepted our adjudicators  conclusions that it had initially provided  
incorrect information to Mr M on 17 October. It agreed that this may have confused Mr M 
until it correctly clarified  the position  on 23 October. So it accepted the recommendation to 
apologise to Mr M and pay him £100  compensation.
Mr M didnt  accept our adjudicators findings.  He essentially repeated  the same  points of 
dissatisfaction and didnt  agree £100  compensation adequately compensated him. Since 
agreement couldnt  be reached,  this complaint has been referred to me to issue  a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
adjudicator and for much the same reasons.
To be clear, under this final decision Ive only considered Mr Ms second complaint about  
Aegon, which essentially concerns the delay  in receiving the partial  lump  sum and the UK 
income tax deducted  at source. Mr M complains  that due to the delay caused by Aegon, he 
was unable to meet his objective  of taking the first partial lump sum by 31 December 2017. 
He says payment  of the partial  lump sum on 10 January 2018  will lead to a higher tax liability  
in his country of residence. He blames Aegon for this. 
Having looked  into the timeline of events, theres no dispute Aegon provided  incorrect 
information to Mr M on 17 October about the option to take a partial lump  sum from his plan. 
But it rectified this several days later on 23 October. It wasnt until 5 December that Mr M 
confirmed to Aegon his intention to take a 50% partial lump  sum from his plan. After  telling 
Mr M of the importance to return documents as soon as possible, Aegon didnt receive the 
necessary paperwork  until 29 December. And since 29 December was a Friday  and Aegons 
office was closed for the New Year on 1 January, there was no possibility it could have made 
the partial lump  sum payment in 2017.
Ive thought about whether the delay in Aegon clarifying the position  on 23 October  led to            
Mr M missing the deadline  to return paperwork to Aegon. Based on the timeline of events 
above, I dont  think its more likely than not that provision of the correct  information on               
17 October (about the option  to take partial lump sum)  would have led to a different  
outcome. This is because  despite being in possession of the correct information  on                 
23 October, Mr M didnt  confirm his final instruction to Aegon  until 5 December.
I think that given  the timing of Mr Ms instruction to Aegon on 5 December, it was always  
going to be difficult  for payment to be made in 2017, particularly since Mr M lives overseas 
and the likely delay  in post being delivered  to Aegons office in the UK.
Ref: DRN04143723Im satisfied that when  it was required to act, Aegon did so in a timely manner. The evidence  
shows there were periods  of time where Aegon was waiting  for Mr M to respond and return 
paperwork. Based on what  Ive seen, I dont agree Aegon is responsible a delay in paying  
the first partial lump sum to Mr M, as hes complained. 
With regard to the UK income tax deducted at source from the partial lump sum payment,   
Mr M thinks Aegon is at fault. He believes that due to the double taxation agreement  that 
exists between the UK and the overseas country in which he resides,  the lump sum could 
have been paid to him gross (without  the deduction of UK income  tax). This isnt correct.  
Due to the nature of the first partial  lump  sum payment (technically an Uncrystallised Funds 
Pension Lump Sum),  Aegon was required  in line with HMRC  rules   to apply  the UK 
emergency tax code to the first partial lump sum payment. Mr M will, I hope, agree that 
Aegon cannot ignore  HMRCs tax rules.  Mr M might be able to reclaim the tax deducted but 
would need to look into this, if he hasnt already done so.
 
Like our adjudicator, I think Aegon provided  a poor level of service when it provided incorrect 
information to Mr M on 17 October about the option to take a partial lump  sum. I agree this 
may have  confused him. The correct information was provided  on 23 October. So the period 
of confusion was for a short  time only, which is a key factor Ive taken into account when 
quantifying the compensation payment due to Mr M. I dont think this error led to a financial 
loss because, as explained above,  I dont think its more likely than not that provision of the 
correct information  on 17 October (about the option  to take partial  lump  sum) would  have led 
to a different  outcome.  In my view, provision of the incorrect information resulted only in 
distress and inconvenience for Mr M. As an informal dispute  resolution service, our awards  
for distress and inconvenience  tend to be modest. In this case, I think  that Aegons 
agreement to apologise to Mr M and pay him £100 compensation  in recognition of the poor 
service it provided  is reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold in part this complaint. My decision is that Scottish Equitable Plc must, if it hasnt 
done so already, apologise to Mr M and pay him compensation of £100  in line with our 
adjudicators recommendation. I make no further award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my final decision before 15 April 2019.
Clint Penfold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0414372