K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
Background
Mr S took out one instalment  loan with Satsuma in March 2018. Mr S was due to repay the 
£700 loan by three monthly instalments of £344  each.  Mr S says that Satsuma continued to 
lend to him and that this led him in to financial difficulties.
Mr S wants  Satsuma  to refund the interest and charges that he paid on the loan together  
with interest.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint be upheld.  
Mr S wasnt  happy with the adjudicators  recommendation so the complaint has come to me 
for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN00824312I think that its important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Source Book defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Satsuma has given  us evidence that it asked  Mr S for details of his net monthly income,  
housing costs, credit commitments  and other outgoings. Satsuma also carried  out a credit 
check and included any undeclared  credit  commitments that it could see together with a 
further buffer.
Given the amount  that Mr S was expected  to repay  each month against his declared monthly 
income of £1,650, Im satisfied that Satsumas checks  were adequate. Based on what  it 
knew about Mr S, I dont think that it was unreasonable  of Satsuma to agree to lend to him.
I wouldnt have expected Satsuma to go as far as trying  to independently verify the financial 
information that Mr S gave by asking to see bank  statements for example. This means that 
even though Mr Ss situation might have been worse than he disclosed to Satsuma, I dont 
think what I consider to have been  proportionate checks wouldve revealed  this.
Im sorry  that my decision  is likely to disappoint  Mr S but I dont require Satsuma to refund 
any interest or pay compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0082431