K822xcomplaint
Miss F is unhappy with the increases in premiums on her home insurance with St Andrews 
Insurance plc. 
background 
Miss Fs insurance  policy  started with St Andrews in 2005 and cost £407.98 for the year. 
The premiums increased over the years and in 2016 the premium quoted was £920.54. I 
note that Miss F made a claim  for accidental damage in 2016  which  totalled  £577.10.  
Miss F says she presumed St Andrews would calculate her insurance  premiums fairly. She 
says she didnt notice  nor was she aware  that the premiums were  rising so much  each year.  
She says she was shocked in 2016 to discover the amount she was being charged. She 
feels she paid an extortionate amount for her premiums over the years, and was taken 
advantage of and treated unfairly. She also says she investigated the cost of home  
insurance with other businesses and received quotes for under £200. 
Upon received her renewal letter in 2016,  Miss F contacted St Andrews to discuss  her 
premium. St Andrews says a review of the policy information reduced  the renewal invitation 
by £37.57, followed by a discount reducing  the premium by a further £191.32. However  Miss 
F decided not to renew the policy at this point.   
St Andrews  has offered  to refund some of the money Miss F paid for the policy  from 2013 
up until Miss F cancelled her policy. St Andrews offer is £1,378.90 plus interest of 8% for the 
time she was out of pocket. Its also offered £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our adjudicator thought the offer was a fair way to resolve things. Miss F disagreed  and 
didnt think the offer was fair. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether St Andrews has treated Miss F fairly throughout the period she held her 
insurance policy. If I find that St Andrews hasnt treated Miss F fairly, I will look to see what 
compensation would be fair and whether I think St Andrews offer in this case is fair.
Miss Fs insurance  policy  started in 2005  and cost £407.98 for the year.  I can see that Miss 
Fs premiums continued to increase each year and she didnt engage with St Andrews about 
her premiums until 2016. At that point  she was offered a discount on the premium but 
decided not to renew her policy. It wouldnt be fair if St Andrews had increased the price just 
because Miss F hadnt engaged at renewal  sooner.
St Andrews  has said Miss F had an introductory  discount applied to her policy  in 2005. This 
is common across  the industry  and often new policies will have an introductory discount 
applied. It isnt uncommon for new policies to initially be priced lower to attract new 
customers. I dont think  its unfair  for an insurer to seek to recoup that cost over the first few 
years and I think thats likely to be the reason  Miss Fs premium increased  over those first 
Ref: DRN02702282few years.  I dont think its fair to expect  an insurer  to maintain that discount for the duration 
someone has their policy.
St Andrews  has offered  to refund some of the money Miss F paid for the policy  from 2013 
up until she cancelled it. St Andrews offer is £1,378.90 plus interest of 8% for the time she 
was out of pocket.  Its also offered £200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused. 
Miss F says the offer isnt fair as the refund only starts from 2013. Ive thought about this but, 
given what Ive said above about the introductory discount, I think  it is fair. In those earlier 
years of the policy, St Andrews was recouping the initial discount  applied to the policy. Also,  
St Andrews  wouldnt  have known in the early years  that Miss F wasnt the type of person to 
shop around for cheaper insurance.  That wouldnt have become apparent for some years. 
So it would be difficult to say that St Andrews wasnt  treating Miss F fairly in the earlier  
years.
Miss F also points to the fact that in 2016 she investigated the cost of home  insurance  with 
other businesses and received quotes  for under £200. But the new insurance quotes 
obtained would have included a new customer discount. So it wouldnt be fair for St 
Andrews to use the quotes Miss F obtained when working out its offer.
In light of what Ive said above, and having considered St Andrews offer,  I think its fair. It 
makes sure Miss F hasnt  lost out if St Andrews did increase the price just because  she 
didnt engage  at each renewal in the later years she held the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, St Andrews Insurance plc offer of £1,378.90, plus interest of 
8% is fair. 
St Andrews  Insurance plc additional  compensation offer of £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused to Miss F is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0270228