K820x#14complaint
Miss K has complained  about  BUPA Insurance Limiteds administration  of her private 
medical insurance policy. Miss K is represented  in her complaint by her father, Mr K.
background
Miss K was a member of her fathers  private medical insurance policy,  held with BUPA.  The 
policy was due to renew  on 16 March 2018  for a premium of £7,337.78. However, Miss K, 
who was aged  over 18, decided to take out her own policy. Miss K had a pre-existing 
medical condition  but BUPA said this would  nonetheless be covered under the policy.  It said 
the premium would be £863.28.
Her father agreed to pay for the policy and asked  for BUPA to remove Miss K from his 
policy. BUPA agreed to do this and said it would result in Mr Ks premium  falling by £772.43. 
However, it said that because it was so close to the renewal  date,  it was too late to prevent  
the full amount of Mr Ks payment from being  taken. This would effectively leave  Mr K owing 
a further £90.85 to pay for Miss Ks policy.
On 16 March 2018, BUPA did indeed take the full payment of £7,337.78.
On 11 April 2018, BUPA wrote to Miss K with details of a monthly  payment schedule  for her 
policy. On 25 April 2018, BUPA took a direct debit  payment of £151.44 for Miss Ks policy in 
line with this schedule.
Mr K, on behalf of Miss K, objected that he had wanted to pay the premium  in one sum 
rather than instalments and that BUPA had furthermore apparently increased the cost of the 
policy from the amount  agreed to £908.72.  He advised that he wanted the collection of funds 
to be halted until the complaint was resolved. BUPA advised him to cancel the direct debit 
mandate, which he did.
On 24 May 2018, Miss K received a letter from BUPA advising that her policy  had ended  due 
to the non-payment of premiums.
On 31 May 2018, Mr K received a payment of £772.43 from BUPA.
Miss K was dissatisfied  at BUPAs handling of matters and so, while waiting for it to deal with 
her complaint, arranged  to take out a policy with an alternative provider. This policy  started 
on 5 June 2018, though  it didnt cover her pre-existing condition.
On 14 June 2018, BUPA issued its final response on the complaint.  It acknowledged it had 
made errors in setting  up Miss Ks policy. It noted  that she had decided against reinstating 
the policy and had instead taken  out alternative cover. It said it would cancel the policy  and 
refund the £151.44 which had already been  paid.  It further offered £100 compensation for 
the trouble caused.
Mr K contacted BUPA on behalf of Miss K. He asked that it reinstate her policy and write off 
the cost for the policy year. BUPA wouldnt do this but it agreed  to pay an additional £250 for 
the trouble caused.
Miss K was unhappy  at BUPAs response and referred her complaint to us.
Ref: DRN03364342Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She acknowledged 
the errors  made  by BUPA but considered its total compensation  offer of £350 was fair. She 
noted that before BUPA issued its final response on 14 June 2018, Miss K could have 
chosen to cancel her new policy free of charge because it was still within  the 14-day cooling 
off period and to reinstate  her policy with BUPA but she had decided against this. Our 
adjudicator noted  that BUPA was still willing to reinstate the policy subject to the backdated 
payment of premiums which she considered was fair.
Mr K, on behalf of Miss K, didnt accept  the adjudicators findings. He said BUPA had 
cancelled her policy and they were  unable to speak to anyone  to sort the problem out. For 
this reason, he considered that she had no choice but to take out cover elsewhere. He 
considered her request for reinstatement at no further cost was therefore reasonable.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
BUPA has, by its own admission, handled matters very poorly.  It set up the direct debit 
payments for Miss Ks policy on the wrong  basis  and for a higher price than had been 
agreed. And after she complained and it agreed to suspend payments pending its 
investigation, it failed  to take steps  to prevent the policy from lapsing. I can imagine that this 
would have been extremely frustrating to her and her father. However, BUPA has now 
offered a total of £350 compensation and, while I recognise this figure  also covers 
compensation to Mr K for other administrative matters not specific to Miss Ks policy,  I 
nonetheless think  it is a fair amount.
Unfortunately, rather than wait for the outcome of BUPAs complaint investigation, Miss K 
decided to take out cover with another insurer. Mr K has explained why she did this but, 
while I can understand it, I dont think it was necessary. Despite it sending a notice that the 
policy had ended, I would have expected that BUPA would have honoured any claim she 
needed to make, assuming that premium payments were eventually  made  to bring  the policy 
up to date once  the complaint investigation  had been completed.
However, it appears that Miss K had made the decision that she didnt want the policy 
reinstated and Mr K told BUPA  of this shortly before it issued its final response letter of 14 
June 2018. This was even though the policy could have been  readily  reinstated at this point 
without Mr or Miss K incurring additional  cost because the alternative policy shed taken  out 
was still in the cooling off period. 
Miss K later decided she did want the policy reinstated but only if she didnt have to pay any 
premium for the year. I dont think this was reasonable because even if this were instead of, 
rather than additional  to, the £350  which BUPA had offered, it still represented  a much 
greater level of compensation. I therefore think it was reasonable for BUPA to refuse to 
agree to this.
BUPA told our adjudicator that it was still prepared to reinstate Miss Ks policy  but only if she 
were to pay the backdated  premiums. While I dont know  if this offer is still available, I think  it 
was a fair position  for BUPA to take.
Ref: DRN03364343Mr K has mentioned that the cheque for £250 which  BUPA  sent him hasnt been cashed  and 
is now out of date. I suggest  he contact BUPA directly to arrange  the re-issue of this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K, on behalf  of 
Miss K, to accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0336434