K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains MBNA Limited wont refund all the premiums he paid for his card protection 
policy.
background
Mr D was sold a card protection  policy on 31 October 2001. The policy  administrators 
records show the policy was cancelled on 12 November 2007. At the start of 2019 he 
complained that although  hed received a letter on 31 August 2013 saying he might be 
entitled to compensation for his card protection policy,  he never heard anything further. 
MBNA upheld the complaint in part. It refunded the premiums paid before 14 January  2005  
together with interest of 8% simple a year. But in relation  to the premiums paid on or after 
14 January 2005,  it said Mr D had missed  the date for claiming under the redress  scheme 
thatd been set up for policies such as his. Mr D brought his complaint about the premiums 
paid on or after 14 January  2005 to this service.
An investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr D didnt agree. The complaint 
has therefore passed to me for a decision.  
For the avoidance of doubt, this decision is about Mr Ds card protection  policy.  His identity 
theft protection policy is the subject of a separate complaint.
my findings
As the investigator  explained, the financial services regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), agreed a redress scheme  in 2013 to compensate consumers, like Mr D, 
with card protection policies.
Broadly the redress  scheme required businesses like MBNA  to return premiums paid on or 
after 14 January  2005 to consumers who made  a claim under the scheme before a certain 
date. The redress scheme was approved by the High Court.
The FCA also decided  as it can when theres  a redress scheme  that the ombudsman 
service should follow  the rules of the scheme when deciding complaints about  sales  of 
policies that wouldve been covered by the scheme. Im satisfied Mr Ds card protection 
policy was partly covered  by the scheme.
This means  that rather  than decide  whats fair and reasonable in relation to the premiums  
paid on or after 14 January  2005, I can only look at whether the redress scheme rules were  
followed and whether Mr D has received what  he was entitled to under those rules.
The redress  scheme  rules say Claim Forms  must  be received by the Scheme 
Administrators on or before the Bar Date.  If a Claim Form is received after the Bar Date, the 
Claim Form will be rejected and the Scheme  Creditor [Mr D in this case]  shall have no right 
to Redress.
So, claims had to be made by the bar date which was 30 August 2014. Although there  was a 
later bar date of 28 February 2015  if one of the exceptional circumstances listed in the rules 
applied.
Ref: DRN07289532The redress  scheme  has provided its records for Mr D. In addition  to the letter  Mr D 
received, they show a vote form was sent to him on 12 November 2013 and a claim form on 
14 February 2014. Both documents  were sent to the address Mr D has provided to us as his 
address. But a completed claim form wasnt received.
Mr D says he never received the vote and claim forms. It may be that he never  received 
them. But the redress scheme rules simply say Any notice given under the Scheme by the 
Scheme Administrators  to any person shall be sufficiently served  by posting the same by 
first class  (or equivalent)  or airmail post to or leaving the same  at the address of such person 
last known to [the policy  administrator].
There wasnt a requirement  for the documentation to be received. And in fact, the rules 
explicitly say The Bar Date will apply to all Scheme  Creditors irrespective of whether or not 
they receive actual  written  notice of the Scheme.
Mr D says he did chase up the redress scheme  and was told theyd investigate what  was 
happening and call him back but then never  did. However, the redress  scheme records  dont 
show any contact from Mr D. And he accepts he didnt complain until 2019.
Having looked  at what happened  here, Im satisfied the redress  scheme rules were followed.  
Mr D disagrees.  He says theres  no evidence  the documentation was sent.  But in my 
experience, the redress scheme records accurately show  what  was sent.  And the rules didnt 
require the documentation to be sent by registered post or recorded delivery. 
Mr D says the redress scheme should have chased  up whether the documentation had been 
received. I appreciate his strength of feeling  but the FCA didnt put any obligation on the 
redress scheme to check that the documentation had been received.
I understand Mr D is frustrated. But the redress scheme rules dont allow for an exception  to 
be made in his circumstances. And as set out above, Im required to follow those rules when 
deciding his complaint.
Its not a case of me siding with MBNA over him. I havent been  able to investigate whether I 
think he received the scheme documentation. Ive only been able to consider whether the 
records show the redress scheme rules were  followed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Laura Parker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0728953