K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays  Bank  Plc (trading as Barclaycard) wasnt  able to defend  a 
chargeback for a transaction  through his business.
background
Mr D complains on behalf of the business  PP. He said a customer  had visited his shop  to 
purchase some goods. The customer said his card needed to be swiped. So Mr D swiped 
the card and obtained the customers signature. 
But a chargeback had been  raised  on the basis that the card had been stolen. And 
Barclaycard had refunded the money to the cardholder.
Barclaycard said the cardholder  had disputed a number of transactions with their bank. And 
the card issuer hadnt accepted the evidence provided. Mr D couldnt  provide the verification 
voucher to prove the card was present at the time of transaction. So Barclaycard hadnt  
been able to defend  two chargebacks thatd been  raised against it.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Barclaycards  response.  So he contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at everything Mr D and Barclaycard had said.  
But she couldnt say Barclaycard had acted unfairly.  There wasnt  enough information for 
Barclaycard to successfully challenge the chargeback  requests.  
Mr D didnt agree. So hes asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  a fraud  took place on a cardholders account. And when a chargeback  was raised 
against the transactions through Mr Ds business Barclaycard wasnt able to defend  it. And 
the money was refunded to the cardholder. I can appreciate how upsetting  this mustve been 
for Mr D. So Ive looked very carefully at everything  thats happened.
 
The chargeback requests  were raised  in line with the schemes regulations. And its 
important to realise that chargebacks are decided on the card schemes  rules   not the 
relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. So its not for me  or Barclaycard  to 
decide who has the stronger argument.
The chargeback rules are very strict. After  the evidence from both parties had been 
considered Barclaycard was unable to defend the chargeback request. And the money was 
refunded to the cardholder. 
Mr D would normally have carried out transactions through chip and pin. Hes been in 
business for over 40 years and he said he had no reason to suspect anything was wrong.  I 
understand on this occasion the purchase was keyed in instead. And although  Mr D got a 
signature for the transaction  he was only able to provide part of the information required to 
defend the chargeback. 
Ref: DRN04123212Barclaycard has provided a letter  to the business from September 2017 stating that a signed 
terminal receipt and signed  implant sales draft are required for a card present transaction  
when a signature was taken  instead. Mr D says he wasnt aware he needed to take the 
additional imprint.  So he was only able to provide the signed terminal  receipts.
Ive carefully considered  everything thats  happened. And I do sympathise with Mr Ds 
situation. But I can only look at Barclaycards  actions. It provided  Mr Ds information  as 
requested by the card scheme.  But it wasnt sufficient to defend the chargeback. 
As Ive explained there is no guarantee what the outcome of a chargeback  will be for either  
party. The process  is determined by the rules  of the scheme.  On this occasion Barclaycard  
didnt have enough evidence to defend against the claim.
I understand Mr D has reported  the incident  to Action Fraud. And realise how upsetting this 
mustve been. But I cant  say Barclaycard has done anything wrong in its response  to the 
chargeback request. It wasnt able to defend against  it with the evidence  it had.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0412321