K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC defaulted his debt without giving him a chance to pay 
the debt off. 
background
Mr S said he was paying off his overdraft when Lloyds closed the account and recorded a 
default without  notifying hm. Mr S said he had moved house and he hadnt updated his 
address, but he said Lloyds had the right email address for him. And he said if hed known 
that a default would be recorded, he wouldve done everything possible to stop that. Mr S 
had the money  to pay the debt off now, and he said hed do so if the default was removed.
Lloyds wrote to Mr S about  this complaint. When it did that, it said that Mr Ss account was 
passed to its collections  team  on 29 November 2016. It said it set up payment plans on his 
account on 1 March 2017 and 12 October 2017. 
Lloyds said that the last repayment plan came  to an end on 1 April 2018, and arrears started 
to add up on the account from then.  It had sent Mr S a number of letters after that about the 
account, but he hadnt received them because hed moved and hadnt  updated  his address. 
Lloyds said it was Mr Ss responsibility to keep his address up to date. It has showed us the 
letters it sent to him. 
Lloyds sent a formal demand  notice to Mr S on 26 June  2018, and then on 5 September a 
different department took over his debt. His account  was closed and a default marker was 
applied at that time. 
Mr S contacted Lloyds  because the account  then disappeared from his online banking.
Lloyds said it had spoken to Mr S when he complained about this default,  and hed explained 
that he wouldve  been able to pay £100  per month at that time. Lloyds said this wouldnt 
have been enough to avoid the default. 
But when Lloyds  wrote  to us about  this case, it said something  a little different. It said that 
actually, with hindsight,  it thought it shouldve  taken this action of defaulting Mr Ss account 
much earlier than it did. It said it wouldve  taken  Mr S far too long to repay  his debt on a 
payment plan of only £50 per month, so it wouldve been better for him if it had acted sooner.
Lloyds thought that it shouldve taken the same  steps that it took, but starting  earlier, in 
November 2016.  And that wouldve meant  Mr Ss account wouldve been  defaulted on 
1 March 2017. Lloyds offered to change  the default  date to that now, and to pay Mr S £150 
for the inconvenience  and upset of not defaulting his account  sooner. 
Mr S said he hadnt known the plan had finished. He said payments towards  it were  still 
being taken. He didnt want any compensation, he only wanted  the default  removed.
Our investigator didnt  think the position of the account had been properly explained to Mr S, 
so she thought it would be best to let Mr S pay his overdraft off, and remove  the default.  
Lloyds didnt agree. It said that the plan Mr S was first on, ended  in October 2017, and a new 
plan was set up then. It said it would send us a recording of that call. It said Mr S was told on 
that call that he could avoid a default  by paying £200 per month,  but Mr S wasnt able to pay 
Ref: DRN00921372that much. And it also said it was made clear to Mr S on this call that this was his last six 
month plan. The plan wouldnt be renewed. 
Our investigator didnt  change her mind. Because she and Lloyds hadnt agreed, this case  
was passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt  propose  to 
uphold it in the way our investigator had suggested. This is what I said then: 
-Our investigator based  her decision on the notes  Lloyds made of calls with Mr S, when 
he put in place, then renewed  a payment plan, for six months each time. But Lloyds then 
sent us a recording of the call it had with Mr S in October 2017, where he renewed  his 
payment plan. I made my decision having had the benefit  of listening to that call. 
-I thought a number of things were discussed  on that call. Mr S didnt want  to set up a 
plan for only six months. He wanted to just leave a £50 payment plan slowly paying off 
the account until it was fully paid.  Lloyds said that it wouldnt  do that, and it was clear that 
it wouldnt accept a further £50 payment plan after this one. It offered Mr S a payment 
plan of £200 per month instead for 12 months, but he said he couldnt  pay that. 
-I didnt think Lloyds  had agreed  to continue  to accept £50 per month  after the six months  
of this renewed plan were up. And I didnt think it had to agree to that.
-I thought it was possible Mr S may have thought, once  the six months were up, that 
Lloyds was accepting  £50 per month towards  his debt.  His standing order  continued to 
pay that money every month. Mr S was keeping an eye on his account,  so he knew  the 
payments were being made. And he hadnt received any letters or calls from Lloyds. 
-But Lloyds wasnt happy to keep accepting £50 towards  this debt. It was trying to get in 
touch with Mr S to tell him that. And the reason Mr S hadnt received letters or calls was 
that he had changed  both his address  and phone  number. Lloyds had shown us that it 
wrote to Mr S a number  of times,  telling  him he needed to pay off this debt, and that he 
needed to get in touch. Mr S didnt get those letters because he hadnt updated his 
address with Lloyds.  That wasnt Lloyds fault, so its not responsible for the fact that Mr S 
didnt get the warnings of default that it sent.  
-I didnt think Lloyds  had made  a mistake,  overall,  by defaulting Mr Ss account.  I didnt 
think it had to remove that default.  
-I noted, however,  that Lloyds offered to move  the default  date for Mr S to 1 March  2017. 
It said it felt, with hindsight, that Mr S was going to take far too long to pay off this debt, 
and it shouldve taken  this step of defaulting  his account much earlier.  
-I knew that fell well short of what Mr S wanted  in this case. But I thought it did have some  
advantage for him, because it meant this default will come off his credit file sooner. And 
Lloyds also offered to pay Mr S £150  because it didnt default his account  sooner. 
-I thought that offer provided a fair and reasonable  outcome to this complaint. I knew  that 
Mr S would be disappointed by this, but thats  what I proposed to award. 
Ref: DRN00921373I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Lloyds acknowledged  receipt of the decision,  but didnt make any further comment. Mr S 
wrote to object.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr S said he didnt  have any further points about the decision itself, because  he felt that the 
decision had already favoured Lloyds even though it admitted it made a mistake.  I dont  think  
that this decision  has favoured Lloyds. And I think that the mistake that Lloyds has accepted 
is more modest in scope  than Mr S suggests.  Lloyds  has said, with hindsight, it shouldve 
defaulted this account sooner. It hasnt accepted that it was a mistake  to default the account. 
And I dont  think its Lloyds fault that happened, for the reasons Ive explained above.
But Mr S said he wasnt happy with the compensation offered. He said that because of 
Lloyds admitted mistake, he now has a default  on his name,  which has already had a 
massive affect on his life and will continue to until it expires. He said hed even had to take a 
sizeable reduction on his wage. He thought an offer of £150  in compensation for that was an 
insult. He wanted  me to look at this again. 
Ive explained  I dont think that Lloyds  made  a mistake  in defaulting Mr Ss account. I cant  
base any award of compensation on the losses Mr S says hes suffered because of this 
default, if I dont think  thats  something  that Lloyds  got wrong. This compensation isnt aimed 
at making up for that. Its aimed at making  up for the fact that Lloyds didnt default this 
account earlier. And I dont think I could fairly  ask Lloyds to pay any more for that. So Ill 
award the £150 that Lloyds offered.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank plc must  move Mr Ss default  date to 1 March  2017, 
and pay him £150  in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0092137