K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy with his home insurer Fairmead Insurance  Limited  both in respect  of how it 
handled his claim  for water damage and the settlement it made.
background
Mr C was made aware of a water leak at his home  on 5 March  2018 whilst he was away 
from the property on holiday. He returned on 13 March 2018  and a loss adjuster appointed  
by Fairmead attended. Following this visit, around  20 March 2018  Mr C was expecting drying 
equipment to be installed but he was advised  there was a shortage. On 1 April 2018 Mr C 
appointed a loss assessor  to handle the claim and a tender was obtained, which  included  
the cost of drying, and was considered by Fairmead. However, Mr C asked for the claim to 
be settled in cash.
Fairmead felt the property  had been drying  well during summer 2018, despite  no drying 
equipment having been  installed. Its loss adjuster has said that natural drying  for Mr Cs 
property was actually  important due to its age and composite materials.  However,  in 
winter 2018, increased  moisture  levels were  noted  and in January 2019, whilst the cash  
settlement was being debated, Fairmead did appoint a drying company and drying 
equipment was installed. 
In December 2018 Fairmead had offered around  £80,000 to settle  the repairs  (it didnt 
specify if this was inclusive or exclusive of VAT), plus an amount to allow Mr C to live away  
from home. Mr C felt both were insufficient and set out further details to Fairmead explaining 
why this was the case. This included  several aspects of what  he considered to be damage 
caused by the poorly handled and prolonged drying  process and which he felt Fairmead 
should pay to repair. 
Fairmead reviewed the contents of its settlement. It accepted it might have liability for some 
things, but not others. It also discovered that its costs for repair had been  based on normal  
rates for access, even  though the access at Mr Cs property was difficult. Taking everything 
into account it said it would pay £116,758.05, which included  VAT, in settlement of the 
building repairs. This offer was made  direct  to Mr C, his loss assessor was no longer  
involved. 
Mr C was still dissatisfied. Hed provided a report from a surveyor  which  said he expected 
the likely  cost of reinstatement  would be £125,000  plus VAT.  Fairmead agreed to reimburse 
the cost of the report (pending sight of an invoice)  and pay utility costs  incurred  for Mr Cs 
home, and council tax for the alternate  property. But when Mr C asked for lots of other costs 
to be paid by Fairmead,  such  as loss of earnings  and travel expenses; it refused. Fairmead  
did pay Mr C £750 compensation as it accepted it hadnt handled the claim well and hed 
suffered upset and been caused  inconvenience  as a result. 
Further, in April 2019, Fairmead paid the sum of £116,758.05 into Mr Cs bank account. 
When Mr C questioned this payment, because he wasnt prepared  to accept it in full and 
final settlement, Fairmead explained it had paid it as it was satisfied  it owed him that sum. It 
also told Mr C that payment to him of this sum would allow  him to start work to reinstate his 
property. Fairmead said it was still willing to review any other evidence Mr C wanted to 
provide it in order to try and persuade it to increase the settlement. 
Ref: DRN01235092Around this time Fairmead also said it thought the reinstatement would  take a total of five 
months so it would pay £10,000  to cover rent until September 2019,  or continue to pay for 
the accommodation Mr C was already living in, if he arranged for the tenancy  to be placed  in 
his name  from May 2019. It said it would also continue paying storage costs  until 
September 2019.
When Mr C complained to this service our investigator felt Fairmead  needed to do more to 
put things right. Mr C was generally pleased by what she said and provided estimates for 
replacing his front and internal doors.  Regarding a suggestion shed made about appointing  
a project manager  to oversee the repairs, he said his enquiries  showed this would likely cost 
10  15% of the project cost.  He also told us that Fairmead had not paid for his surveyors  
report and utility costs  as promised. Fairmead didnt reply.
I reviewed the complaint  and felt that Fairmead  hadnt shown its settlement had been  fair 
and reasonable.  I felt it hadnt handled  the claim well. I made a number of findings  and, 
given the value of the complaint, concluded  with an award and recommendation. 
Mr C said he accepted  my findings.  But he asked about the cost of replacement doors; 
which he was concerned werent  specified in my awards even though  hed provided  
replacement quotes  for them following receipt of our investigators findings. He also asked if 
I could go beyond our award limit and, in particular, make Fairmead pay the cost of a project 
manager, as he feels he really needs to appoint one to get the house  reinstated.  
Fairmead, in summary I think its fair to say, generally accepted most of what Id said. But it 
was reluctant to agree  to some of the awards/recommendations Id made.  Ive reproduced 
my provisional findings below and, where relevant, Ive recorded  Fairmeads  concerns and 
responded to them.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
our award limit
Where I uphold  a complaint I can only make an award up to a certain value. Given  the date 
of the activity which caused  this complaint, and when the complaint was made  to us, I can 
make an award against Fairmead of up to £160,000. Although I can recommend that 
Fairmead pays or completes work in excess of that figure, it wont be bound  to do so even 
were Mr C to accept  my final decision within the deadline.
Mr C would like Fairmead to agree to paying  any recommended  amount, and whilst hes 
tried to talk to it about this  it hasnt answered  him. So hed like me to insist it does. 
If Fairmead has been unwilling to explain its current position to Mr C, I think  thats 
unfortunate. But I can understand why it wouldnt want to commit to him in respect of 
anything set out in my provisional findings, not until they are made  final. I also understand 
why Mr C would like me to require payment beyond our award limit  but the limit is set by 
our rules  and for any sums beyond the limit, I can only make  recommendations.
Ref: DRN01235093My provisional findings continued:
evidence provided  by Fairmead
To date, despite this service requesting various  pieces of evidence from Fairmead, and 
giving it ample opportunity  to provide such,  it hasnt been forthcoming. Mr Cs claim has now 
been outstanding and unresolved for a long time, I need to move it forwards.  Im going to 
assess the complaint  on the basis of the information  provided  to date. If detail is missing that 
Ive asked Fairmead for and it hasnt provided, Im going to decide based on what I think  is 
likely, and fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
drying the property
Im aware that this claim came at a time of a surge  event which placed great pressure on the 
insurance industry as a whole. Whilst Fairmead  likely  should  have prioritised Mr Cs claim, 
Im not sure that, even if in the first few months  of the claim it had done  so, it could have 
done any more  than it did. And in saying that Im mindful that Mr C involved a loss assessor 
in April 2018. The loss assessor appointed a surveying company which,  by the end of April, 
had drawn up a tender for works  which included drying the property. So I think its fair to say 
that Fairmead couldnt, at that point,  reasonably  ignore  Mr Cs agents chosen  course  of 
action, and implement  its own drying scheme.  But I think  Fairmead  should  have still tried to 
pro-actively manage  things at this time,  at least warning Mr C and the assessor of the risk of 
delaying the drying process  the involvement of the loss assessor did not absolve  Fairmead  
from its responsibility as the insurer. Ive not seen evidence that Fairmead did take 
appropriate steps to manage the situation.
In saying that Im mindful that Fairmead doesnt say that the involvement of the loss 
assessor prevented  it drying the property. Rather  it says that, at some point after it first 
assessed the property and planned  to dry it mechanically, it decided  the property should  be 
left to dry naturally. Im not particularly persuaded by what Fairmead says in this respect, not 
least as it hasnt supported this contention  with any evidence. But taking Fairmead at its 
word, that would suggest that it took no steps to try and implement drying at Mr Cs property  
following its initial plans to do so being unavoidably delayed by the impact  of the surge 
event. So Im satisfied  that Fairmead  didnt manage  this aspect of the claim as it shouldve.  
I note that once the loss assessor  stopped being involved, Fairmead undertook the drying  of 
Mr Cs home. That, of course, was not until January 2019. I think  Fairmead should have 
taken steps to progress things  before that point. Although the involvement of the loss 
assessor means I cant be sure, if it had done so, Fairmeads actions would most likely have 
allowed the drying part of the reinstatement programme to begin any earlier. Not given Mr C 
had chosen to instruct the loss assessor to act for him and the loss assessor opted to tender 
for all the work including the drying. 
I do understand though that it must have been frustrating for Mr C at this time, particularly 
given more damage was sustained  to his home. Fairmead has, correctly  in my view, agreed 
to pay for damage caused by the property not being  dried. But the dispute remains as to 
what the extent  of that liability is. 
reinstatement costs
Mr C has produced a surveyors report which concludes that it will likely cost £125,000, plus 
VAT, to resolve the damage at the property  caused  by the water leak.  Fairmead, with little 
Ref: DRN01235094evidence provided  in support, says it would only cost it £116,758.05 to reinstate the property. 
Im mindful the difference in question is not vast. Mr Cs costs  dont  seem  unreasonable, and 
they dont seem to include anything which appears  to be likely  unrelated  to the water  
damage or failure  to dry the property. Whilst the policy allows  Fairmead to settle at the price 
it would  cost it to do the work, it still has to satisfy me that the sum its offering in that respect 
is fair. I havent seen  evidence which  shows that is the case. Therefore, Im going to give the 
benefit of the doubt to Mr C and award him £33,241.95 (being £150,000 {£125,000  plus 
VAT} less the sum already paid). In this case Im awarding the VAT amount because 
Fairmead was happy to pay this as part of its settlement.
Fairmeads final response of 14 March  2019 confirmed that £116,758.05  was its final 
settlement offer.  But it didnt pay this sum to Mr C until 9 April 2019. And that sum was still 
short by £33,241.95 of what  Im now saying Fairmead should  pay. So Im going to require 
Fairmead to pay interest* on the sum of £116,758.05 from 14 March  2019 until 9 April 2019, 
and then on £33,241.95 also from 14 March  2019  but until settlement of this additional  
amount is paid. 
Fairmead felt it wasnt fair for settlement to be based on the surveyors  estimate, not where 
contractors and surveyors had previously set out and priced all the work. Fairmead also said 
that three  aspects of the work set out by the surveyor werent related to the leak or poor 
works that had occurred.  
I think its fair to say that Mr C was told that if he didnt agree with the extent of the work and 
costs set out, hed have  to provide expert  evidence to challenge them. So Im not persuaded 
the surveyors report and pricing has no relevance  here. Nor am I persuaded that the three 
issues within the report now highlighted by Fairmead are most likely  unrelated.  I note that in 
general terms they all relate  to extensions of work previously set out and agreed as 
necessary by Fairmead, and/or  to issues that may well have arisen/been caused or made 
worse by the drying and/or  long term unoccupancy  of the property. And I note that when  
Mr C presented this report for Fairmead to consider in 2019, it didnt raise any concerns then 
about these particular items. Overall, Im not persuaded that the surveyors estimate is an 
unfair or unreasonable representation  of the likely  cost to Mr C to fix his property. I remain  of 
the view that Fairmead should make a further payment to Mr C to settle in line with that cost.
My provisional findings continued:
other damage
However, Mr C says there are items  that need reinstating that his surveyors  report  doesnt  
account for. But that would suggest the reports was flawed  because it didnt address all of 
the issues Mr C was concerned about at the property. For example, Mr C said to Fairmead  
in December 2018 that the external and internal doors had suffered significantly due to the 
leak and/or  the failure to dry the property.  But the surveyor didnt find any issue with the 
external door at all, and concluded the internal doors could be repaired (which  is accounted  
for in the expected reinstatement  sum Im now awarding). 
I note Mr C says the boiler  requires  repair  and that it wasnt  unreasonable for the surveyor  to 
not find this problem because the surveyor is not a gas engineer.  Whilst that may be, the 
surveyor observed the boiler was functioning,  providing heating and hot water adequately. 
And I note that whilst the surveyor  is also not an electrical engineer, he did identify that there 
might be fault with the electric system, and he recommended a suitably  qualified  person was 
Ref: DRN01235095appointed to complete testing of that installation. Regarding the boiler he just said Mr C 
should have it serviced  (which Mr C would  normally  need to do annually  anyway).
The appointment of the surveyor was Mr Cs opportunity to have an expert consider all 
aspects of the property  which he felt Fairmead was liable for reinstating  and to give an 
indicative price for that work. Im not persuaded its fair to now second guess those findings 
and debate other issues which Mr C still feels Fairmead is liable for but regarding which the 
surveyor either disagreed  or didnt comment on.
new damage
That said,  when Mr C complained to us in May 2019 he explained the property was still 
drying out and further damage  to some items, including the internal doors had occurred. 
Whilst I acknowledge that wooden object can suffer during forced drying, I havent  seen any 
evidence that this has likely happened  to anything in Mr Cs property. Fairmeads final 
responses were based on the evidence it had from its experts and Mr Cs surveyors  report  
all of which either pre-date the drying  or occurred at around the time drying began.  If Mr C 
can provide evidence to Fairmead which reasonably shows  further  damage  occurred to his 
property as a result  of it being artificially dried  from January 2019 onwards, Id expect 
Fairmead to settle  for repairing or reinstating  that damage. 
I see Mr C is concerned  that his costs  to replace the external and internal doors arent 
included in my award. However, I did explain in my provisional findings (other damage)  that 
I wasnt minded to make Fairmead pay for damage or costs which Mr C had felt had been 
missed by his surveyor. But in the section of my provisional findings entitled new damage , 
I did say that any damage which had occurred  since Fairmead began to force  dry the 
property, should  be considered by it. In line with those findings, if Mr C wants  Fairmead to 
pay to replace his doors, he will have  to provide it evidence of the damage which he believes 
occurred during or as a result  of the drying process which began  in January 2019. Fairmead 
will then have to consider this issue. 
My provisional findings continued:
project management
This is a significant reinstatement project. It isnt something I could expect  Mr C to even 
begin to manage  on his own.  However, the contractor  hired  would usually manage and 
oversee the work, even for a large project such as this. That may or may not come with a 
specific fee. A project manager would often  only be required where there are technically 
complex elements  that require professional expertise, not just because  theres  a lot of work  
requiring input from different trades.  So I cant reasonably assume Mr C will most  likely incur 
a cost in this respect. Which means I cant fairly  make an award  in respect of the likely cost 
of a project manager  as part of this complaint. But I can direct  Fairmead to pay this cost if 
Mr C finds that the contractors he approaches to complete  the work are making  a charge to 
him in this respect.  Hell have to show evidence of this to Fairmead for it to make  a payment. 
cost of surveyors report
Mr C said this cost £460.  Fairmead said it wouldnt pay this as it hadnt persuaded it to 
increase its settlement offer.  But this report has influenced my findings. If Mr C shows  proof  
of this cost, Fairmead  will have to reimburse  this sum, plus interest* from the date Mr C paid 
the cost until settlement  is made.
Ref: DRN01235096Fairmead said it shouldnt  have to pay for the report or interest on its cost because Mr C 
didnt present it to it in a timely  manner. Fairmead said that if he had it could have resolved 
matters earlier. 
I think it would have  been helpful if Mr C had given  the report  to Fairmead earlier,  and Im 
not sure why he didnt.  However, Fairmead  was still able to, and did, review  the report  once 
it was presented. Having  done so it wasnt minded to agree  to amend its settlement and 
issued a further final response setting out its findings. So I dont think  Mr Cs late 
presentation of the report prejudiced Fairmeads ability  to consider this evidence  when 
answering his complaint.  And I note Fairmead is still disputing the reports  worth and the 
suggestion of it making  a further settlement in line with the costs stated, in response to my 
provisional decision. So Im not persuaded that if Mr C had presented  the report  to Fairmead 
any earlier (and were only talking two or three  months)  that would have made any 
difference. Our usual approach, where an expert report  influences the outcome of a 
complaint, is to require  the respondent to reimburse that cost, plus interest* from the date it 
was incurred. Nothing Fairmead  has said in reply has persuaded  me to turn away from that 
approach here. 
My provisional findings continued:
electricity and gas used to dry the property
It was January 2019 before the heating was reinstated and dehumidifiers were put in. Mr C 
wasnt living  at the property; rather he was staying in alternative accommodation where  he 
was also paying  utility bills. Its not unusual in this sort of instance for an insurer to cover the 
cost of one set of bills  otherwise the policyholder  likely  ends up paying more  than they 
would have but for the loss and claim.  So I think its fair to say that any gas and electricity  
costs incurred by Mr C for the insured  property  from this point  forwards until the property 
was dry, should be paid by Fairmead  under the claim. Mr C should send Fairmead copies of 
his bills for January  2019 until the property  was dry and Fairmead  should  reimburse  their 
cost, plus interest* on each sum Mr C paid from the date it was paid until settlement is made.
council tax
Mr C wants Fairmead  to reimburse his council  tax for the insured  property.  Whilst Mr C 
hasnt been able to live in his home due to the incident and delays in reinstatement which 
followed, Im not persuaded that is good reason to make  Fairmead  pay a tax amount that 
Mr C is liable for as a result of owning his property. On this basis,  Im not going  to make 
Fairmead pay any council  tax cost Mr C incurred for his home. And I see Fairmead has 
already agreed  to pay council tax for the alternative  accommodation (which,  if Mr C has 
been paying this tax for his home as well, is a cost incurred due to the claim which  hes not 
reasonably liable for). 
keys
Mr C says that Fairmead didnt return his door keys. It should  have  done  and Ive seen 
nothing to make me think it did. If Mr C shows a cost for replacing  his locks, Fairmead 
should reimburse this, plus interest* from the date Mr C paid it until settlement is made.
Ref: DRN01235097Fairmead said it didnt  think, to date, Mr C had told it about keys being missing. It said it 
would agree to reimbursing his outlay, if proof were shown to it, but it felt that the application 
of interest was unfair.
In replying I note that Fairmead has nodded towards  the somewhat complicated  and 
definitely vast history of this claim and complaint. So, it says,  it cant be sure Mr C didnt tell 
it. And I note as well that a lot of verbal  and face-to-face contact has occurred between Mr C 
and Fairmeads various agents throughout the course of the claim, and I think  its likely that 
not all of this was recorded.  I dont doubt  what Mr C has said about his keys,  and Im 
satisfied that overall Fairmead has likely had ample  opportunity to investigate  those 
concerns, but it doesnt seem to have  done so. I remain  of the view that, if Mr C can provide 
proof to Fairmead of his outlay for replacing locks,  including the date costs  were incurred, it 
should reimburse that sum and pay interest on the reimbursement amount to be paid to 
Mr C, from the date he incurred the cost until settlement  is made.
I concluded my provisional findings by looking at several other  complaint issues:
alternative accommodation and storage
Fairmead offered  to cover the cost of rent and storage  for five months to allow for the repairs 
to be completed.  That seems like a reasonable time period to me. Whilst it wasnt  clear how 
long drying would take, by the point  this offer was made the drying had been on-going  for 
four months. The work necessary to reinstate the property after the drying was complete  was 
a big project  but I havent seen anything  that suggests it would have taken all or more  than 
the five months  Fairmead allowed for. And Fairmead only had to pay for rent and storage 
until the property  was habitable  again,  not fully reinstated. I also note that within a couple of 
weeks of setting this timeframe Fairmead did pay Mr C the full settlement offered and 
followed this payment up (albeit  prompted by Mr Cs enquiries) with advice as to why this 
had been paid. Im not going to require Fairmead to pay for rent and storage beyond  
September 2019. If Mr C can show that he has rent and storage costs for this period which  
Fairmead hasnt paid for, it should pay these, plus interest.
loss of earnings (including pension contributions) and travel expenses
Mr C wants compensation from Fairmead in this respect. Im not persuaded such is 
reasonably due. I appreciate this was a stressful time for Mr C and he clearly had to put in 
effort beyond that which should have been  required if Fairmead  had handled things better. 
But Im mindful that for several  months  of the claim Mr C had a loss assessor  acting for him. 
Im also mindful that one of the main  reasons Mr C felt it necessary to travel to the property 
regularly, and/or not work as his job takes him away from home,  was because the burglar 
alarm was damaged.  Whilst Mr C wanted Fairmead  to pay for this it refused, so Mr C visited 
his home  to check on it. Mr C could have had the alarm fixed.  Im not persuaded to make  
Fairmead pay anything  in this respect.
Ref: DRN01235098counselling
Mr C would like the cost of counselling sessions which  began  at the end of January 2019 
and he felt would continue until the property  was reinstated. His therapist has said in a brief 
letter that their sessions focus on the toll the lengthy claim negotiations have had on Mr C. 
Im not going  to require Fairmead to pay for Mr Cs counselling. Mr C had a loss assessor  
acting for him to negotiate  the claim until late 2018,  around four months of this was taken up 
by a tender  process instigated by the loss assessor. I dont doubt it was difficult for Mr C to 
go through all of this  but Im not persuaded the length or complexity  of the process resulted 
from failures of Fairmead.  
compensation 
Thats not to say Fairmead  didnt fail Mr C. Whilst the loss assessor  was negotiating the 
reinstatement part of the claim  for Mr C, Fairmead was still dealing  directly with Mr C at 
times, and handling  things  like accommodation  itself. 
Ive heard what Mr C has said about accommodation arrangements.  Im satisfied that 
Fairmead often made key payments  late. This resulted on one occasion in hotel staff 
entering Mr Cs room  and stuffing his belongings into bin bags. On other  occasions  Mr C 
was pressured  by his landlord  because rent wasnt paid. I dont doubt Mr C was caused 
significant distress and inconvenience as a result of this. 
Fairmead accepts that when it dealt with Mr C directly it could have been clearer  and that at 
times it didnt answer his contacts when it should have done. Mr C had some personal 
difficulties at times during the course of the claim and Fairmead accepts that its poor 
handling compounded Mr Cs upset. 
Fairmead has offered  £750 compensation. Im not persuaded, having considered what Mr C 
has told us hes been through,  when setting that against the backdrop of what Ive accepted  
are Fairmeads failures, that is enough.  I think  fair and reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances here totals £1,000.
In summary
I think this has been a long and complicated claim and complaint. I note that in Fairmeads 
reply to my provisional decision it accepts  it didnt handle the claim well at times. Whilst Ive 
reviewed its objections raised to my findings,  as well as Mr Cs response to them,  as 
explained above, Im not minded to change my views  provisionally  stated. My provisional  
findings are now part of the finding of this, my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I can only make  an award  up to a limit of £160,000 and the 
£116,758.05, as well as the £750 compensation already paid, are to be considered within  
that sum.  The limit includes  the cost of future work if Mr C shows Fairmead such is needed. 
Interest payments arent subject to the limit. I can, and will, recommend that costs beyond  
the limit are paid.
Ref: DRN01235099My Award
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr C:
£33,241.95 for reinstatement of the property.
An amount  equivalent  to interest*  on the sum of £116,758.05 applied  from 
14 March 2018 until 9 April 2018.
An amount  equivalent  to interest*  on the sum of £33,241.95 applied from 14 March 2018  
until settlement is made.
£460 in reimbursement of the cost of the surveyors report, plus interest from the date 
Mr C paid this sum until settlement is made.
Upon sight of proof of his outlay, an amount to reimburse Mr Cs cost for electricity and 
gas used in drying the property, plus interest* on each sum Mr C paid from the date he 
paid it until settlement is made.
An amount  to reimburse  his outlay for replacing  locks, plus interest from the date Mr C 
paid for replacements until settlement is made.
An amount, if necessary, given my comments above, to reimburse  Mr Cs cost for rent 
and storage between May and September 2019, plus interest* from the date Mr C paid 
any sums until settlement  is made.
A further  £250  compensation (making total compensation paid, £1,000).
I also require that, subject to proof from Mr C being provided to and considered by Fairmead 
Insurance Limited, it makes a settlement to Mr C for any further  damage  which  has occurred  
since his surveyors assessment in January 2019 as a result of the property being  
mechanically dried.
I further require  Fairmead Insurance Limited,  upon sight of proof  from Mr C that he will likely 
incur such  a charge,  to pay him an amount to cover  the cost of project managing  the 
reinstatement work.
My Recommendation
The previous  payments  Fairmead has paid, plus my awards bulleted above  (excluding any 
interest amounts) as well as the cost of work Mr C may show needs  completing and any 
costs he may show are due for project  managing  the work, will likely exceed £160,000.  
I recommend that Fairmead Insurance Limited  pays any amount owed to Mr C which  
exceeds the sum of £160,000.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Even if my final decision 
remains the same and Mr C accepts it within the deadline set, Fairmead Insurance  Limited  
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr C can accept my decision and go 
to court  to ask for the balance if the recommendation  is not honoured. Mr C may want to get 
independent legal advice before deciding whether or not to accept this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Fairmead  
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from any interest  due to Mr C, 
it should  tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0123509