K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Aviva  Insurance Limited  has rejected their home insurance 
claim, following a burglary; as they were unable to prove ownership  of the jewellery being 
claimed.
background
In April 2018, Mr and Mrs Bs home  was broken  into and they informed their insurance 
provider, Aviva, that a number of high value jewellery items  were stolen. Aviva instructed a 
loss adjuster to assess the claim.  
After the break-in, Mr B obtained a breakdown of the cost to replace the items reported  to be 
stolen and shared  this with Aviva.
When the loss adjuster  visited Mr B in his home, he explained that they did not have  any 
receipts for the items taken. All the items  were  either  gifts or inherited.  He had pictures of the 
items on his mobile  phone, which he showed  to the loss adjuster. It was agreed during the 
visit, that Mr B would make arrangements to have the pictures sent to the loss adjuster via 
email later that day. Allowing them the opportunity to determine  where  and when the pictures  
were taken. The loss adjuster  was later told that the pictures had been  deleted by accident. 
Due to the lack of proof of ownership,  the claim was declined in full. In line with the terms of 
Avivas policy.  The loss adjuster sent Mr B a letter in April 2019, informing him of this. 
Mr B complained to the loss adjuster about their decision, who informed Aviva. Upon review 
of the claim, Aviva agreed with the loss adjuster and informed Mr B that the claim would not 
be covered. They explained that he was given the opportunity to prove ownership but did not 
provide this to the loss adjuster. They stated that if Mr B was able to provide any 
substantiation that proves  the ownership  of the jewellery prior to the break-in, they would 
consider that information. But without it the claim would not be paid.  
Mr B disagreed with Avivas stance and asked us to look into it. One of our investigators 
explained that they would not be upholding Mr Bs complaint, as Aviva had correctly applied  
the terms of their policy.
Unhappy with this, Mr B has asked for a final decision  and so this has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr and Mrs Bs policy  clearly  states that it is their responsibility to prove any 
loss. Receipts, valuations  and photographs are given as examples  as evidence of this. The 
terms also state:
If you wish to specify an item valued  at more than the single item limit shown  on your 
schedule, we will either request proof of value
prior to providing cover for the item;
at the time of a loss.
Ref: DRN08697082From the information provided to me, I cannot see that Mr B was able to prove this loss. It is 
my understanding that the items taken were  either  inherited or gifts and so, understandably,  
there are no receipts. Pictures were shown to the loss adjuster,  which  does help. However, 
the loss adjuster needed to verify when and where the pictures  were  taken. They  were  not 
able to do this due to the pictures being deleted accidently.
With regards to the valuation of the items taken; Mr B provided  a breakdown of the cost to 
replace the items, post break-in. This is not the same as a valuation,  which  would need to 
have been obtained prior to the items  having  been taken. I agree with the investigator 
therefore, that Aviva has applied the terms of the policy correctly. 
That said,  I must also consider whether, this is fair and reasonable in this particular case. 
Without being able to verify ownership  of the items, Mr B has merely provided  a list of 
jewellery and the cost of replacing  them. It wouldnt be fair to expect Aviva to pay the claim 
based on the list alone. 
It is extremely unfortunate that the pictures  were deleted. If they were  sent and Aviva  were 
able to verify where and when they were taken, this may have changed the outcome. Aviva 
has said that if Mr B is able to provide any substantiation that proves the ownership of the 
jewellery prior to the break-in, they would consider that information.  This is a reasonable 
approach to take and a fair one. 
I appreciate this will be a disappointing outcome for Mr and Mrs B, but I must consider the 
information that is actually available. Avivas  actions have been  fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  provided, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2020.
Chantelle Sayles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0869708