K820x#14Complaint
Mrs W complains Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) supplied her with 
an inherently faulty car on a hire agreement. 
Background
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint on 16 October 2019. A copy  of that 
provisional decision is attached to and forms a part of this final decision.  However,  in very 
brief summary I concluded  the new car Mrs W had hired from MBFS was not of satisfactory 
quality due to the degree  to which it exhibited an undesirable behaviour which  caused noise 
and vibration. I said she should  be allowed to return the vehicle, end the agreement and 
receive a partial  refund as well as receive  an amendment to her credit file.
Mrs W said she accepted my provisional decision. MBFS disagreed with it and made a 
number of points  which could be summarised as follows:
The manufacturer was a premium brand with a strong commitment to improving its 
vehicles and the experience of its customers. The efforts  made by the manufacturer  
to fix Mrs Ws car or the same model  should  be viewed through this lens and not be 
seen as a response to the model  being problematic or there being an issue  to be 
fixed.
Although it accepted  a higher bar for what constitutes satisfactory quality  would 
apply to Mrs Ws car than a car from a budget brand, it didnt think  the behaviour of 
the vehicle meant it failed to meet that bar. This was because the behaviour only 
occurred at low temperatures and at full steering lock, which  would overall be only a 
small proportion of the time the vehicle was being used.
The number of complaints it has received from customers about the behaviour 
displayed by this model of car, compared  to the number of vehicles sold,  doesnt  
indicate that a reasonable person would not consider it to be of satisfactory quality. 
On the contrary,  it indicates that only a small minority of customers believe the model 
is of unsatisfactory  quality.
The case  has now been returned to me to review once more.
Ref: DRN00148652My findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about MBFSs arguments  carefully. Having done so I think  MBFS is focusing 
mainly on the wider model of car and not on the problems with Mrs Ws specific  vehicle. I 
noted in my provisional decision  that I was considering  a complaint about the individual car 
Mrs W had, and not the model in general. In order to do that I did have to look at the model,  
its history, and the manufacturers actions in relation  to it, but I was clear  that I was not 
making any findings about whether or not the model in general was of satisfactory  quality.
In my provisional decision I explained  that, having seen the video of Mrs Ws car, the reports  
from an independent third party and her testimony, I thought her car exhibited  the 
undesirable behaviour to a particularly  significant  degree. It is the degree to which her car 
exhibits the behaviour which is important  here  and my view remains that it is more than a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory.
I understand MBFSs point that the problem  only occurs during colder temperatures and at 
full steering lock. Based  on the evidence supplied in this case,  I think the problem is 
generally prominent from October through to March, which is half of the year.  And 
manoeuvres at full lock (or close to it, which it appears also triggers  the undesirable 
behaviour) would be expected to occur  at least twice in most journeys when moving into and 
out of parking spaces. I dont think its fair to say that a problem which occurs on most 
journeys for half of the year is sufficiently limited to conclude that the car meets  the standard 
for what would  be considered satisfactory  quality, taking into account its brand-new nature 
and premium marque  status.
Overall, Im not convinced  by MBFSs further  arguments that the car is of satisfactory  quality 
and it follows that Ive reached  the same conclusion  as I did in my provisional  decision, that 
she should be allowed  to return the vehicle. 
Putting things  right
To put things right MBFS  must:
Arrange for the car to be collected  from Mrs W at no cost to her.
Cancel the hire agreement and end Mrs Ws liability for future hire payments. If the 
hire payments are made in advance  for the month ahead,  MBFS must  provide a pro-
rata refund for any unused proportion of an advance  payment.
Refund the initial rental paid by Mrs W towards  the agreement, or the unused 
proportion of this if the initial rental was spread across the whole agreement.
To reflect the fact Mrs Ws use of the car has been impaired by the problems shes 
experienced, refund 10% of any hire payments made by Mrs W for the months of 
October through to and including March  (for each year of the agreement), where the 
issues have been most prominent. 
Remove the hire agreement from Mrs Ws credit file.
Ref: DRN00148653My final decision
For the reasons  explained in this final decision and in my attached provisional decision, I 
direct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to take the actions outlined in the 
Putting things right  section above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN00148654COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mrs W complains  Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited (MBFS) supplied her with an 
inherently faulty car on a hire agreement.  
Although Mrs W is the eligible complainant here as she is the person  who entered a hire agreement  
with MBFS, Mrs Ws husband has been  the main point of contact throughout the history of the issue.  
When I refer to things said or done by Mrs W in this decision,  this should  be taken to include things  
said or done by her husband also.
Background
Mrs W entered into a regulated hire agreement with MBFS in April 2016, for a period of 48 months.  
Under the agreement Mrs W was to pay an initial rental of about  £1,398, and then £466 per month for 
47 months. 
Mrs W first appears to have  reported a problem  with the vehicle in October  2016, when she took the 
car to a dealership  complaining of juddering  and noises when steering. The dealership said it couldnt  
find a fault but agreed to fit two winter  tyres free of charge.
Later, in March 2017, Mrs W reported to the dealership that the front tyres were  skipping.  The 
dealership fitted all-season tyres to all four wheels at this point, and this was paid for under  the 
manufacturers warranty. It appears  there was some further contact  between Mrs W and the 
dealership later in 2017 about the issue, but its unclear  what  happened at that point.
In any case, Mrs W complained to MBFS in February 2018.  MBFS  arranged for an inspection of the 
car to be carried out by an independent third party  engineer, however  there were  some problems with 
getting this to happen at a mutually convenient time. In the end, the inspection didnt go ahead  and 
MBFS sent a final response to Mrs W, rejecting her complaint. MBFS said the apparent problem with 
the cars tyres  skipping was in fact just a characteristic  of the vehicle and not a fault.
In the meantime, Mrs W had brought her complaint to this service. In December 2018, during the 
course of our investigations, the independent third party  engineer inspected the vehicle and confirmed 
that tyre skipping was occurring. The engineer gave his opinion that the Ackermann  angle  of the front 
wheels was affecting  the grip of the tyres. He recommended the tracking  and caster/camber settings 
of the vehicle  were checked.  This was not done, but Mrs W said that in any case  this had already 
been attempted previously to no effect.
One of our investigators then issued an assessment  on the case. He ultimately  concluded that 
although the tyres on Mrs Ws car were skipping, this was not a fault, only happened in very specific 
circumstances, and did not represent a safety issue or cause excessive tyre wear. He thought overall  
the car was of satisfactory quality and therefore he wouldnt  be asking MBFS to take back  the car or 
end the hire agreement.
Mrs W disagreed with the investigators findings. She said the manufacturer  knew  there was an 
inherent design flaw with the car, which  was widespread and well-documented. A lack of safety wasnt 
the issue   the issue was the quality  of the product.  The case has now been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN00148655The agreement Mrs W has with MBFS is a contract to supply goods under  the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA). Under the CRA, supplied  goods  need to be of satisfactory quality  and MBFS,  as the 
supplier, is responsible for making sure this is so.
Satisfactory quality means the standard a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory, taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price paid, and any other relevant  circumstances. If the car 
in Mrs Ws case was not of satisfactory quality when  it was supplied  to her, then she has certain rights 
under the CRA. These include the right to reject the vehicle and end the hire agreement in certain 
circumstances. 
In this case, a number  of actions have already been  taken in an effort to resolve  the issues Mrs W has 
been experiencing, including  replacing first the front tyres  with winter tyres, and then all the tyres  with 
all-season tyres. Mrs W has said these actions have failed to fix or significantly alleviate the issues in 
question. I note that MBFS has not offered to take any further  remedial action since the complaint was 
brought to its attention.
The key question in this case is whether or not the car is of satisfactory  quality. Both Mrs W and 
MBFS agree that the front tyres of the car skip or crab  in certain situations, but where the parties  
differ is on whether this means  the car is of unsatisfactory quality. Mrs W says it is a fault and MBFS 
say it is not, arguing it is simply  a characteristic of the vehicle. I think it is also fair to say here that Mrs 
W and MBFS disagree on the extent to which the vehicle exhibits the behaviour complained about.
The car and its behaviour in certain situations
The car in this case is a large, four-wheel drive SUV with 20-inch wheels  and tyres  with a low aspect 
ratio. This means the height of the tyres is low in comparison with their width, and is sometimes 
referred to as low profile. Mrs W says that when the vehicle is moving and the steering wheel  is 
turned to the extent,  or close  to the extent, of its travel (full lock), one or both front tyres skip sideways 
across the road surface. This causes a physical  sensation of juddering as well as a noise which  can 
be heard inside and outside  of the car. Mrs W has said this behaviour occurs primarily  during cold 
weather, with all types of tyre.
MBFS appears to accept  the car displays  this behaviour in certain situations. Its supplied a copy  of a 
report from The Driver  and Vehicle Standards Agency (DVSA), which  had tested a number of vehicles 
of the same model. The DVSA was able to reproduce  the behaviour on certain  road surfaces with the 
steering wheel at full lock, and it described the noise produced as grating or graunching.
MBFS has provided other reports too. One is the report from the independent third-party  referred to 
earlier in this decision, and another  is a report  from the same third-party  about another customers 
vehicle, which noted noise from the front tyres and slight skipping at full lock. 
Mrs W, on the other hand, has provided a video  taken from a couple of metres away,  of the car being 
manoeuvred on paving slabs of the kind you would  expect to find on a residential driveway  or car 
park. Occasional thumping noises can be heard above the sound of the engine as the car drives at 
low speed with the wheels  turned, and the vehicle can be seen  to shake from side to side.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I have to conclude  this model of vehicle  does make a distinctive 
noise when manoeuvring and (based  on the reports) this is accompanied by a sensation of vibration 
or judder in the vehicle cabin. It appears the extent of the behaviour  depends  on factors such  as the 
ambient temperature  and the kind of tyres fitted  to the vehicle. Based on the video and the third-party  
report, Mrs Ws particular car seems to exhibit this behaviour to a significant degree.
The apparent cause of the behaviour
The DVSA report provided by MBFS discusses the causes of the noise  and skipping  from the front 
tyres. The DVSA compared  the steering  components  of the model  with those of the equivalent left-
hand drive  model and noted  the steering rack had been repositioned forwards on the right-hand drive 
Ref: DRN00148656models, but all other components were unchanged. The DVSA reported that moving the steering rack 
had changed the steering  alignment, resulting  in increased stress  on the tyres at full lock, and this 
was ultimately the cause  of reverberations felt through the steering system.
It would appear then,  based  on the DVSA report, that the behaviour is due to the way the steering  
components have been  designed. 
Classification of the behaviour as a characteristic and its relation  to satisfactory quality
MBFS has described the behaviour of the vehicle as a characteristic of the model while Mrs W has 
described it as a fault or defect. These descriptions reflect both parties respective  positions  and I am 
not convinced that assigning these sorts of definitions  is particularly helpful  in this case. Ultimately  the 
relevant question is whether  the behaviour  means the car is, or is not, of satisfactory quality. 
Given the noise and vibration experienced  by Mrs W appears to be caused by how the vehicle  is 
designed, I think its correct to say noises and vibrations like this are typical of the model  of car she 
has. I think it would also be correct to say that such noises and vibrations are undesirable.  The 
description of the DVSA of grating and graunching sounds, along  with the noises heard and the 
shaking seen on the video, suggest driving the car could  become an unpleasant experience  when this 
behaviour occurs. 
The manufacturer appears to have invested considerable effort in reducing  the behaviour  and 
bringing it to the attention of customers prior to purchase, including changing sets of tyres for Mrs W 
twice. It issued a public  statement in 2017 where  it described the behaviour as a comfort issue  that 
its engineers were investigating ways to minimise. I also understand that from some time after Mrs W 
entered her agreement, the manufacturer began asking prospective customers to sign documents 
confirming the behaviour had been brought to their attention  prior to purchase.
Additionally, I became aware during my investigation  of reports that the manufacturer had now 
designed new steering  components for this model of car and had fitted them  under  warranty, so I 
asked MBFS  for some more information about this. MBFS said that a new component began  to be 
offered from the beginning of 2019, and if this part was available for Mrs Ws model  it would be fitted 
under warranty  or as a gesture of goodwill.
The actions of the manufacturer over time then, seem to reflect  a point of view that the comfort of the 
vehicle is affected by this behaviour, to the extent  that it is prepared to engineer  or propose various  
solutions to fix the issue.  
Returning to satisfactory  quality; as mentioned above  there are some relevant considerations  which 
could influence what this means. For example, the price of the goods  and the way they are described. 
Its relevant in Mrs Ws case, for example, that she was acquiring a new car from a premium marque  
with a cash price of around £40,000. I think this would lead to the bar for what  constitutes satisfactory 
quality being set higher  than, for example, a £10,000 car from a budget  marque. Ive also reviewed  
some of the models sales literature from the manufacturer from around the time Mrs W entered  into 
the hire agreement, and this reinforces my impression  that the car was marketed as a premium 
offering combining everyday practicality with a degree of sportiness. Taking  all these  things into 
account I think a reasonable  person would expect a relatively high standard of comfort and 
performance from the vehicle Mrs W acquired. 
Im mindful here, of the fact that I am considering  Mrs Ws individual complaint about her vehicle, and 
not a complaint about the particular make and model  in question. Having  considered all the evidence 
 the video, the reports  and the testimony of the parties involved   it appears Mrs Ws car exhibits the 
undesirable behaviour shes complained of to a particularly significant  degree. This negatively impacts 
the level of comfort Mrs W experiences when using  it, particularly in colder weather.
I think  a reasonable person,  taking  into account all of the relevant circumstances, would consider this 
means Mrs Ws car was not of satisfactory quality. Considering the multiple failed  attempts to resolve 
Ref: DRN00148657the issues  Mrs Ws experienced, I dont think it would be reasonable to expect  her to accept another 
attempt to repair at this stage and she should be allowed to return  the vehicle.
Putting things right
For the reasons  explained above, I think Mrs W should be able to allowed to return the vehicle. 
Therefore, MBFS  must:
Arrange for the car to be collected from Mrs W at no cost to her.
Cancel the hire agreement  and end Mrs Ws liability  for future  hire payments. If the hire 
payments are made in advance for the month  ahead, MBFS must provide a pro-rata refund 
for any unused proportion of an advance payment.
Refund the initial  rental paid by Mrs W towards the agreement, or the unused  proportion  of 
this if the initial rental was spread  across the whole  agreement.
To reflect the fact Mrs Ws use of the car has been impaired by the problems  shes 
experienced, refund  10% of any hire payments  made by Mrs W for the months of October 
through to and including March (for each year of the agreement), where  the issues have been 
most prominent. 
Remove the hire agreement  from Mrs Ws credit file.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  explained in my provisional  findings, I intend to direct 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services  UK Limited to take the actions outlined in the Putting  things right  
section above.
I now invite  both parties to the complaint to provide any new evidence or arguments they want  me to 
consider. They should make sure these reach me by 30 October 2019.  I will then review the case  
once again.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0014865