K820x#14complaint
Ms H is unhappy that her home insurance  policy was voided  (treated as though it had never
been in existence) by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
Ms H took out a policy  with RSA  through  a comparison  website  in June  2017.  In 
December  that year she contacted  RSA  with a query  about  her policy  following  water  
damage  from a blocked  pipe.  She disclosed  that she was having  work  carried  out to her 
property.
After  investigation  RSA  said that her home  had been  unoccupied  for more  than 60 days  
from the date she'd  taken  the policy  out due to the renovation  works.  It said before  she 
took the policy  out Ms H had confirmed  the property  wouldn't  be unoccupied  for more  
than 60 days.  It said if it had known  that the property  wouldn't  be lived  in for more  than 
60 days,  it wouldn't  have  offered  her cover.  It didn't  think  Ms H's regular  visits  to the 
property  were  enough  to say the property  was occupied.  So it decided  to void the policy  
and return  her premiums.
I issued  a provisional  decision  explaining  why I was minded  not to uphold  this 
complaint.  An extract  from my provisional  decision  is set out below:
When  a consumer  buys  an insurance  policy,  they'll  be asked  to provide  certain  
information.  In simple  terms  the insurer  is trying  to assess  how likely  it is that the 
consumer  will make  a claim.  It can be a misrepresentation  if an answer  given  is 
inaccurate  or incomplete.  But the insurer  will only be entitled  to take action  if it's a 
'qualifying  misrepresentation'  in accordance  with the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure  
and Representations)  Act 2012  (CIDRA).  The remedies  available  to the insurer  for a 
qualifying  misrepresentation  include  voiding  the policy.
Under  the terms  of CIDRA,  there  are two main  factors  I need  to take into account  in 
deciding  whether  there's  been  a qualifying  misrepresentation.  These  are how clear  
and specific  the insurer's  questions  were  and whether  the consumer  took reasonable  
care not to make  a misrepresentation.
The comparison  website  through  which  Ms H bought  the policy  has supplied  evidence  
of the exact  questions  Ms H was asked  online  and the answers  she gave.  She was 
asked  whether  the property  would  be unoccupied  for more  than 30 days.  She 
answered  "No".  She was also asked  whether  there  was any ongoing  building  work  at 
the property.  Again  she answered  "No".
After  she'd  taken  out the policy  RSA  sent Ms H a summary  of the information  she'd  
provided.  It asked  her to review  the information  and told her that if she hadn't  
answered  any questions  honestly,  it might  void her policy.  The information  below  
included  the following  statements:
"My home  .. .is never  left unoccupied  for more  than 60 days"
"The  building  is ... not undergoing  any building  work  unless  agreed  by us in writing"  
and
Ref: DRN02076572"the whole  of the building  is occupied  solely  by me and members  of my family  
unless  agreed  by us in writing".
There  was no guidance  about  the term "unoccupied"  on the comparison  website.  But 
in the policy  booklet  sent to Ms H there  was the following  definition  of "unoccupied':
"Unoccupied:  Not lived  in for more  than 60 days  in a row. Visits  to check  on your 
home  do not constitute  it being  occupied."
I appreciate  that there's  a variance  between  the question  Ms H was asked  which  
referred  to the property  being  unoccupied  for 30 days  and the definition  of 
"unoccupied'  which  refers  to a period  of 60 days.  But since  the variance  is in the 
consumer's  favour  (in that if a house  isn't going  to be unoccupied  for 30 days,  it won't  
be unoccupied  for 60 days  either),  I don't  think  it matters.
I think  Ms H was asked  clear  questions  about  whether  the property  was occupied  and 
whether  there  were  ongoing  building  works.  I could  understand  if Ms H hadn't  been  
sure when  she took the policy  out how long it would  be before  she could  move  in. But I 
find it harder  to understand  why she overlooked  telling  RSA  about  the building  works  in 
the first place.  I'm not persuaded  that Ms H took reasonable  care in answering  these  
questions  or in her failure  to make  RSA  aware  of her mistakes.  She later told RSA's  
investigator  that the property  couldn't  be lived  in when  she'd  bought  it as it needed  a 
new kitchen  and bathroom.  She said she'd  been  working  at the property  from June  
until mid-October,  visiting  it each  day and moved  into the property  in mid-October.  That 
means  there  was no-one  living  in the property  for well over 60 days  in a row.
RSA  has provided  evidence  to show  that if it had been  told that the property  would  be 
unoccupied  for more  than 60 days  in a row, it wouldn't  have  offered  home  insurance  
cover.
Unfortunately  for Ms H I think  RSA's  view that she failed  to take reasonable  care was 
fair. And it was entitled  to void her policy.
RSA had no comment on my provisional decision. Ms H said she hadnt acted recklessly or 
carelessly and so there were no grounds for RSA to void her policy.  She said she hadnt 
known how long it would take to decorate her property and no renovations had begun when 
shed taken out the policy before completing her purchase of the property. She hadnt  
regarded upgrading the kitchen and bathroom as building works. She emphasised that she 
wasnt seeking anything  from RSA except to have  the voidance  removed from her record.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a lot of sympathy for the situation in which  Ms H finds  herself a relatively short  time 
after buying  her first property.  I appreciate that it might well have been  hard to gauge how 
long the building works would take. I also understand that she wasnt having any structural  
Ref: DRN02076573alterations carried out. But I think the ordinary  everyday meaning of building works would 
include the renovations to the kitchen and bathroom  that Ms H was having  carried out. Even 
if she didnt have them in mind when she took the policy out, they were  a material change 
that she should have notified  RSA about  as soon as shed decided to do them. I agree that 
she hasnt been  reckless but unfortunately for her, I do think  she didnt take reasonable care 
in the information she gave RSA (including  the failure to update it about the fact the property 
was unoccupied for longer than shed led it to believe  and the building works). 
So my provisional findings  now form part of this final decision and my decision that RSA was 
entitled to void Ms Hs policy is unchanged.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0207657