K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  about  markers  Paragon Finance PLC (trading  as Idem  Servicing) 
put on their credit files about their secured loan.
background
Mr and Mrs C have raised numerous complaints over the years, most of which go back to 
the fact Mr and Mrs C feel this secured loan is in dispute.  
Mr and Mrs C complained  about the fact the loan was sold to Idem by the previous lender, a 
complaint we dealt  with (and rejected) in 2015. 
Since then Mr and Mrs C have been questioning the original paperwork as they feel its been  
interfered with. Idem has sent various letters and documents to Mr and Mrs C about this over 
the years  and issued  final response letters on the different  complaint  points.  Idem eventually 
said it wasnt willing to correspond on those matters  any further.
Mr and Mrs C brought  their complaint to us. Under  two other complaint  reference numbers 
we told them we couldnt deal with the main thrust of their arguments - those relating to the 
dispute on the account and whether the paperwork had been  altered - as theyd not brought  
those complaints in time. But we said we could  deal with this complaint about the information 
that had been reported to the credit reference agencies.
Our investigator thought Idem was right to record factual information to the credit  reference 
agencies. He said Mr and Mrs C were in arrears and had no formal repayment arrangement 
in place and that was being reported. Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and so the matters been  
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im conscious Ive condensed the events  of the complaint  into rather  less detail than 
Mr and Mrs C have presented them. No discourtesy is intended  by this; its merely a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service. Whilst Ive concentrated on what  I think is the 
crux of the complaint,  I assure Mr and Mrs C that Ive read everything they and Idem  have 
sent us. 
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what  questions  should be asked or 
answered. I can see Mr and Mrs C feel very strongly about this, and thats not surprising.
Its normal industry practice for a lender to record any missed payments on a credit  file. In 
fact lenders have  a duty to report that information.  In this case  I dont  think  Idem  did anything 
wrong in reporting  the true arrears position  of Mr and Mrs Cs loan account  that is, theyve 
been paying less than their contractual monthly  payment  for quite  some  time, and theyve 
not been in a formal  payment arrangement  since 2017.
Ref: DRN03920472Its important to bear in mind that Mr and Mrs C agreed to make their loan payments when 
they took it out. Theyre obliged to do so, and thats what  I need  to consider in determining 
whats fair in this case.
Mr and Mrs C have been writing to Idem since 2015  about their secured loan. They  say their 
letter of 20 December 2016 placed the account in dispute. They say this means all 
payments, interest  and credit reference agency  information reports  are placed on hold to 
allow the business to deal with the matter. Mr and Mrs C say theyve been told this by 
various bodies but I think theres been a misunderstanding as theres no such  rule.
In any event, an account cant stay in dispute indefinitely as that would be open to abuse, 
with the potential for disputes being used as a way to get interest and payments frozen, and 
adverse credit reference information stopped.
Idem has correctly reported  Mr and Mrs Cs loan as being in six-months arrears  (the 
maximum number  of months that can be reported)  and thats  a true reflection of the account.  
I understand Mr and Mrs C are confused that the account markers show  as late payments 
and are concerned  because they say their (reduced)  payments are made every month on 
time. To reassure them late payment is just another term for the same thing; that being 
arrears. It doesnt mean that individual months payment was made late, just that the 
account overall is always being paid late (as theres arrears on it). A payment will not show  
as being made on time if there  are such significant  outstanding amounts from previous 
months still owing.
It seems  Mr and Mrs C may have been guided  by some popular misconceptions, repeated  
widely on certain internet  forums, which are incorrect and based  on a misunderstanding of 
the law. Idem feels it responded to the complaints  and dispute as far as it could, the fact 
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept its responses doesnt  alter that.
Mr and Mrs C have said the paperwork has been altered. As I said, an ombudsman  
colleague has already explained we cant look at that complaint because it wasnt referred  to 
us within  the time-limit set up in our rules.
I know Mr and Mrs C feel strongly about this, but its not helpful to keep  going  over the same 
ground. Idem has said its not going to respond  any further to any complaints about the 
documents and Mr and Mrs Cs account  dispute, and that is its right.  It satisfied its regulatory 
duty when it responded to the complaints  and gave referral rights to this service, the fact 
Mr and Mrs C dont agree with its responses  doesnt alter that. Its unfortunate we were  
unable to look at Mr and Mrs Cs complaints as they referred them  to us too late, but again 
that doesnt mean Idem has to carry on dealing with the same  complaints.
As theyve  already been advised,  one option Mr and Mrs C might want  to consider is adding  
a Notice of Correction  to their credit  files. This is a short note they can write to give some 
context and explain why they feel the reporting  is unfair. It would be available to all lenders  
as its seen by anyone reading  the report.  Mr and Mrs C should contact the credit reference 
agencies directly if they want to do this.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Ref: DRN03920473Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0392047