K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold payment  protection insurance (PPI). 
Its been agreed Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the insurer should 
accept responsibility  for this complaint.  Although FICL didnt  actually sell the PPI, to 
keep things simple  Ill refer just to FICL  in my decision.
background
Mrs C was sold a PPI policy when  she applied for a store card in 1999.  She says she had a 
medical condition  when she was sold the cover.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Cs complaint didnt think FICL  made  it clear  to her the 
PPI didnt cover accident and sickness  claims caused by her medical condition. And our 
adjudicator didnt think Mrs C wouldve bought  the PPI if this had made  this clear. 
FICL says Mrs Cs condition can be manageable  and, if it was unlikely to cause her to have 
enough time off work for her to claim on the policy, may not have affected her decision  to 
buy it. So Mrs Cs complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had a duty to give Mrs C enough  clear information about the PPI so she could make  an 
informed decision about whether she wanted it. From what Ive seen, I dont  think FICL did 
this. And I think if FICL had given Mrs C the clear  information it shouldve,  she wouldnt have 
bought the PPI.
Its likely  the policy Mrs C was sold wouldnt have covered her for accident  and sickness 
claims caused by any medical condition she had when  she bought it. Mrs C says she was 
diagnosed with a medical condition some years  before then. She says she took medications 
for the condition.
Mrs C has been consistent  in what shes told us about her medical  condition.  From  FICLs  
case file, it seems Mrs C also referred to a medical  condition when she first made her 
complaint to it. FICLs  file notes suggest it was going to ask Mrs C what  exact  conditions  she 
had when she bought the cover.  But I dont know if FICL did this or, if it did, what Mrs C said.
 
As Ive already  noted, in response to our adjudicators view on Mrs Cs complaint, FICL 
questions whether Mrs Cs condition wouldve stopped her going ahead with the PPI. 
But on the basis of what Mrs C has said about her condition and the other information Ive 
seen (which in terms of FICLs own investigation  is quite limited),  I think the exclusion its 
likely the policy had for accident and sickness claims arising from known medical  conditions  
wouldve mattered to Mrs C. But there was no information about  it on the application form 
Ref: DRN04874942she signed. And I havent seen anything else to show  me FICL made  it clear  to Mrs C at the 
time.
I dont think its likely  Mrs C wouldve gone  ahead with the PPI if shed known she wasnt  
likely to have been covered if shed needed  time off work because  of her medical condition. 
It follows that I think Mrs C has lost out because of what FICL has done wrong and so it 
should put things right.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs C wouldve owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs C owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C wouldve owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs C would have owed each month  without PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs C paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs C 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year
D.FICL should tell Mrs C what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs C a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN04874943my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0487494