K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains about the delay caused  by Canada Life Limited in making payments under 
her annuity.  She says when payments were finally made, the first payment was for the 
wrong amount.  Payments  were then suspended. She also asked for an explanation about 
why the annuity had fallen  in value and had not received a response. She wants 
Canada Life to pay interest on the delayed payments.
background
Mrs C has a spouses annuity with Canada Life, which she applied for in January 2012, 
following the death of her husband in May 2011.  Canada Life wrote  to Mrs C on 
20 January 2012  telling her she would receive £149.12 per month, less tax. This would be 
backdated to May 2011, so it calculated she was due nine payments of £149.12 totalling  
£1,342.08. It deducted  tax of £143.60,  leaving a net payment of £1,198.48. 
Canada Life sent her another letter, also dated 20 January  2012,  saying the bank details 
Mrs C had given it were  incorrect  and it was not able to make a payment. Both letters were 
addressed to the same address.
Mrs C says she did not receive the letter  telling  her the bank details were incorrect. She also 
says she did not receive  further letters from Canada Life chasing her for a response.  
Canada Life says it sent further letters on 10 April and 17 July 2012  and 24 January, 
4 February and 8 July 2013.
Canada Life says, as it could not pay Mrs C, it paid the annuity payments into a suspense  
account, which was not interest-bearing. 
Mrs C emailed Canada Life on 19 May 2014 enquiring about her policy and whether she was 
due any payments. Canada Life replied on 20 May 2014 asking for her address details and 
contact was re-established. 
Mrs C filled in a payment form, with her bank details included, and Canada Life received this 
on 24 July 2014.  Further correspondence followed and Canada  Life was able to make a 
payment under the annuity on 15 October 2014. An amount of £4,771.84 was paid.
In May 2015  Canada  Life says it received returned  post that it had sent to Mrs C, so it put 
her payments on hold until it was able to confirm where she lived. Contact was made and 
payments restarted in July 2015.
Mrs C wrote to Canada  Life in January 2017 requesting an explanation for the delays in 
payment and why interest had not been paid on the delayed payments.
I understand that Mrs C accepts she has received  all the payments due to her, but claims for 
interest on the delayed  payments. She has also claimed for costs of £250, as she sought 
assistance from English  speakers to translate letters from Canada  Life. She has based her 
claim on 25 hours of time at £10 per hour. She also says shes  sent letters by recorded  
delivery and been put to some administrative expense, inconvenience and distress  in sorting 
out her annuity  payments. 
Canada Life says it couldnt make the payments earlier because  it didnt have  Mrs Cs bank 
details, it tried to contact her and so shouldnt have to pay interest. 
Ref: DRN02334182The complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators, who upheld the complaint in part. 
He thought Canada Lifes version  of events was persuasive and it did appear it was given 
the wrong bank  details  at the outset.  Canada Life chased for the correct  details and made 
the payments  once  the correct bank  details were provided. He did think  Canada Life had 
made errors. Some of its explanations were inaccurate. For example, some of Canada  Lifes  
letters referred to payments due under the dependants annuity for periods before Mr C had 
died. It had also delayed  some payments that could  have  been paid in October 2014 but 
were actually paid in December 2014.  He recommended  Canada Life pay interest for the 
period of these  delayed  payments and £250 compensation for the other errors. Canada Life 
agreed.
Mrs C did not agree. In summary, she said she hadnt received any letters  about  the 
incorrect bank details  in January 2012 or subsequent letters.  Canada Life could have 
checked with the administrator of her husbands employers pension scheme for her bank 
details. She had also spent a lot of time sorting this matter  out, including  asking her bank to 
check her statements and whether it had received  any letters from Canada Life. She thought  
this might have damaged  her reputation with the bank.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Canada Life wasnt approached to provide the annuity until January 2012, some eight 
months after Mrs Cs husband died. Canada Life wasnt responsible for that period of delay, 
so I dont think any interest is payable for that period.
When Canada Life was approached to provide an annuity it appears it was not given the 
correct bank details.  I can see there  is an error in the documents  containing Mrs Cs bank  
details that were sent to Canada Life. Canada Life has provided a copy  of a letter it says it 
wrote to Mrs C asking  for her correct bank details. Mrs C says she did not receive  the letter. I 
have little reason  to doubt Canada Life sent it and the subsequent letters referred to earlier.  
While Mrs C might not have received  them, as she says,  I do think if she had not received 
the annuity payments she was expecting, having applied to set up a new annuity,  she ought 
to have chased Canada Life earlier than two and a half years later. I do not think  
Canada Life ought  to have contacted the administrators of her late husbands pension 
scheme to find out Mrs Cs bank details.  The incorrect bank details had been  sent to 
Canada Life through the administrator in the first place. I think it was reasonable for it to 
have written directly to Mrs C for clarification of her bank details and to send further letters  
chasing a response. I also think it was reasonable to pay the annuity payments into a 
suspense account.  As that account didnt  pay interest, it seems Canada  Life didnt derive a 
benefit from the money, that it might  be reasonable to pass  on to Mrs C. Canada Life also 
did not cause  the delay  in payments.  So I dont  think Canada  Life ought to have to pay 
interest for the delayed payments. 
I dont think Canada Life ought to have taken  steps  to trace  Mrs C at that point. It had 
recently received  forms, completed by her, containing her postal address. There were no 
other contact  details, so I think  it was reasonable for Canada Life to write to her again. If 
Canada Life had taken  other steps to trace Mrs C, I am not persuaded it would  have been  
any more successful in contacting her since it had her correct address at the outset. It 
seems as likely,  if not more likely at least one letter was received and Mrs C might  not have 
Ref: DRN02334183appreciated what it was or what it was asking for, since  she says her English was quite 
limited. 
Mrs C emailed Canada Life in May 2014 enquiring  about the annuity and the payments she 
was due under it. Canada  Life took steps  to verify  it was dealing with its customer and this 
took a little time but I dont  think Canada  Life did anything  wrong  here. 
Payments were suspended in May 2015 when Canada  Life audited its records and found it 
did not have an up-to-date address for Mrs C. However, payments were restarted fairly 
quickly once Mrs C verified her address. Any loss of interest caused as a result of this short 
delay appears  to be minimal in any event.
In terms of Canada  Life having calculated the wrong amount due to Mrs C when it started  
making payments  in October 2014, I think the way payments were made was confusing, but 
I dont think the wrong amount was paid.  Canada Life made a payment for £4,771.84,  which  
I understand was to cover the annuity payments due from 4 March  2012 to 4 October  2014.  
It then paid £149.12 on 4 November 2014,  which was the next annuity payment due. It then 
paid £1,317.80, which was for the annuity payments due from May 2011  to 4 February 2012. 
It appears this payment  was not made until 17 December 2014.  So Mrs C received all the 
annuity payments  due to her, but not in one payment and over a period of about two months.  
Canada Life accepts that it could have paid her the £1,317.80  in October  2014,  rather than 
on 17 December and has agreed to pay interest for this period. I think  thats reasonable, but 
I also think that small interest payment should notionally have been paid in December 2014, 
so it should also attract simple interest  at 8% per year from December 2014 to the date it is 
paid. 
In terms of a decrease in the value of the annuity  Mrs C was expecting,  Canada  Life 
explained that the annuity was simply set up for the amount Mr Cs occupational  pension 
scheme administrator  instructed it to set it up for, so it was unable to explain why the amount 
of the annuity  was less than Mrs C was expecting.
Mrs C claims this matter  has caused her distress, inconvenience and additional cost, in 
terms of translators time and postage, amongst other things. I have  considered this 
carefully. Whilst I understand  Mrs C has been put to some trouble  it is not clear  Mrs C was 
caused distress or material  additional cost. I havent  seen  any invoices from translators or 
evidence she actually  incurred additional  expense. It isnt clear the translations were 
undertaken for commercial gain, rather than carried out as a favour  to Mrs C. I also do not 
consider 25 hours of translation time was needed. Mrs C just needed some help translating 
the letters setting  out Canada Lifes requirements so the annuity could be paid. It seems 
likely that wouldnt have  taken long. Whilst Im sure she has incurred some expense in 
sorting this matter out, I would generally  expect  consumers to spend  some time and make 
phone calls or write the occasional letter or email  when dealing  with their financial affairs.  I 
dont think this matter  should have needed more than a little time and nominal expense to 
sort out.
In terms of distress, Mrs C has said she felt her reputation with her bank might  have been 
damaged, for example,  because  she asked  it to reconcile bank statements and asked 
whether it had received correspondence  from Canada Life. I do not think this would have  
damaged her reputation. Banks often receive queries from customers  about  payments and 
bank statements. I do agree with the adjudicator that it might have been a little distressing to 
have received inaccurate information and explanations about the payments. In particular, 
those that mistakenly  referred to payments due under  her spouses annuity for periods  
Ref: DRN02334184before her husband  had died. Overall, I think the £250 recommended by the adjudicator and 
agreed to by Canada Life, is fair compensation for any distress caused.  
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint in part. 
Canada Life must pay Mrs C £250.  It must also pay her interest at the rate of 8% simple per 
year on the amount of £1,317.80 between 16 October 2014 and 17 December 2014.  That 
amount of interest  should also attract interest itself, at the rate of 8% simple per year,  from 
18 December 2014 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Greg Barham
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0233418