K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that she was mis-sold  two separate Free-Standing Additional  Voluntary  
Contributions (FSAVC) policies by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) 
Limited, causing her financial  loss.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on Mrs Ws complaint in February 2020. I said,  like our 
adjudicator, I was minded to uphold her complaint. However, as my provisional decision also 
included some redress for Mrs Ws trouble  and upset,  I gave  both Mrs W and Sun Life a 
further opportunity  to comment before  I issued  a final decision.
Sun Life responded to my provisional  decision and said its view remained the same.
Mrs W said, again through her representative,  that they didnt totally  agree  with my 
provisional decision. They said that as Id concluded that the 1991  sale was not compliant 
and the consumer shouldve contributed to the NHS  Additional  Voluntary  Contribution  (AVC) 
scheme, had she been given  the correct advice in 1991, the FSAVC wouldnt have existed. 
So, she wouldve just increased  her contributions in the NHS AVC scheme.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mrs Ws complaint comes back to me to decide.
background
In 1991, Mrs W was sold a FSAVC policy. At the time, she was working for the NHS, 
having done so for many years. She was working in a skilled  role, and given the nature of 
this role, employment opportunities outside of the NHS were  limited. Mrs W had access to 
an AVC scheme through the NHS.
In 1994, Mrs W was sold a second FSAVC policy by the same Sun Life adviser. She was 
still working for the NHS and still had access to its AVC scheme.
1991 sale (Plan 1)
Sun Life accepts that Mrs W was mis-sold this FSAVC by its adviser in 1991. For ease of 
reference Ill call this Plan  1. Mrs W continued  to pay contributions into Plan 1 until 
1997.
1994 sale (Plan 2)
In 1994, Mrs W wanted to increase her contributions into Plan 1. She was advised  that this 
wasnt possible and she would have to set up a second FSAVC if she wanted  to increase 
her contributions.  However,  this time, Sun Life informed her about her employers AVC 
scheme. Mrs W opted to set up the second FSAVC plan, which I will refer to as Plan 2.
our adjudicators initial view
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ws complaint in part. He did not consider it fair or 
appropriate to cap her losses  to the time that she took out Plan 2. She continued paying  
contributions into `plan 1 until 1997 and he said the redress should cover  this whole 
period.
Ref: DRN08123922In relation to Plan 2, our adjudicator didnt uphold this aspect of Mrs Ws complaint. He said 
if this had been a standalone plan, he wouldve concluded that Plan 2 wasnt  mis-sold. This 
was because Mrs W was told her workplace AVC scheme was likely  to have lower 
charges. He said, ordinarily, Mrs W couldve been advised  to increase her contributions 
into Plan 1, and in that case  redress wouldve  covered  the loss flowing from both the 1991 
sale and the advice given in 1994.  But, he said these  were separate  policies and should be 
seen as such. He also said this service  could only provide redress for the mis-sale itself 
and that later decisions made by the consumer  (over a number of years  and in varying 
scenarios) cant be reviewed on the basis of an earlier mis-sale.
Mrs Ws response
In summary, Mrs Ws representative  said that it was unlikely  that she wouldve taken out 
the 1994 policy had she been correctly advised in 1991. He said if Mrs W had been  
correctly advised,  she wouldve  contacted  her NHS  employer and bought added years  
with her additional contributions. He said that there wouldve been no need for Plan 2 in 
these circumstances.  He also said, given her role, and taking into account her likely 
career path within the NHS, there was little likelihood of her being  an early leaver and 
so she would have  benefitted from added years.
He said Plan 2 neither was a standalone policy, nor purchased  from a separate  provider. He 
said Plan 2 was recommended by the same adviser  who recommended Plan 1, that adviser 
was a tied adviser, and Plan 2 had to be set up only because it was not possible to pay the 
additional contributions into Plan 1. He said if Mrs W had been properly advised in 1991,  
she wouldnt  have had to take further advice in 1994.  So, in summary, he says,  her loss 
flows from the original unsuitable advice.  
Sun Lifes response
Mrs W made an informed  choice in 1994  to set up Plan 2 and to continue to make 
contributions into Plan 1, despite being  told that her employer  offered a lower cost AVC.  
Redress should therefore be capped  at this date in relation to Plan 1 and Plan 2 was not 
mis- sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Neither Sun Life nor Mrs W have put 
forward any new information for me to consider. Their representations are essentially  the 
same as they were  in response to the adjudicators view, which I have already considered.
I therefore see no reason  to depart  from my provisional decision. I therefore partially uphold 
Mrs Ws complaint  and make an order for redress to include a payment for the trouble and 
upset caused  to Mrs Ws pensions planning. My reasons are the same as set out in my 
provisional decision, which Ill repeat here.
This service seeks to put consumers back in the position they wouldve  been in, had they 
not been provided with inappropriate advice.
capping redress on Plan 1
Ref: DRN08123923I agree with our adjudicator, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to cap redress  in 
relation to Plan 1. Mrs W received  unsuitable advice in 1991;  she set up and carried on 
contributing into Plan 1 based on that unsuitable advice. Although  
Sun Lifes adviser told her about her employers AVC plan in 1994, I cant see that he 
pointed out to her that his initial advice may have been unsuitable and she might  want to 
stop making payments into Plan 1 and use her employers AVC for all her contributions 
instead. So, I think Mrs W continued  to lose out based on the earlier  advice shed 
received, by making ongoing contributions into Plan 1 until 1997.
setting up Plan 2
The reason  why Mrs W went back to the same adviser in 1994  was because she wanted to 
increase her contributions. For administrative reasons, she couldnt do this through Plan 1. 
This was a situation  beyond Sun Lifes and Mrs Ws control. So, a new pension  
arrangement was needed. She was told she could make these additional contributions  
through her employers  AVC scheme, probably at a lower charge than if she set up a new 
FSAVC plan through the adviser.
Having clearly been told this, Mrs W still chose to take out the FSAVC.  So, I think  she 
made an informed choice to pay more and set up a plan not provided by her employer. 
Like our adjudicator, I cant therefore see that this plan was mis-sold to her. Having  been  
made aware  that she could pay reduced  charges (at least in relation  to these new 
contributions), Mrs W had a duty to mitigate  her own potential losses. Having made an 
informed choice to start a new FSAVC and pay more in charges, I cant see that I can 
fairly require  Sun Life to compensate her for any losses that arise  as a consequence  of 
her own decision to go down the FSAVC route, rather than investing  in her employers 
AVC plan.
fair compensation
I therefore make  the following order for fair compensation to be paid to Mrs W.
Sun Life should put Mrs W back in the position she wouldve been in if Plan 1 had not 
been mis-sold to her. It should calculate redress in relation to Plan 1 for the whole period 
from 1991 to 1997.
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.)  Limited must undertake a redress  
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority in October 2017.  This calculation should be carried out as at the 
date of this decision,  and using the most  recent financial assumptions published. In 
accordance with the regulators expectations,  this should be undertaken or submitted to an 
appropriate provider  promptly following  receipt of notification of Mrs Ws acceptance  of the 
decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  should, if possible, be 
paid into Mrs Ws pension plan. The payment should allow  for the effect  of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance  implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs W as a lump  sum after making a notional  deduction  to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have been  paid. 25 per cent of the loss would be tax-
Ref: DRN08123924free and 75 per cent would have been taxed according to her likely  income  tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20 per cent. So making a notional  deduction of 15 per cent 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to
Mrs W within  90 days of the date Sun Life receives notification  of her acceptance of my 
final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 
8 per cent per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for 
any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes  it to pay this compensation.
I also consider that the unsuitable advice Mrs W received from Sun Life in 1991 has caused 
her some  trouble and upset in her retirement  planning. And in those circumstances, I 
consider it fair to order Sun Life to pay her some compensation to acknowledge this. I think 
£250 would  be a fair amount in the circumstances.
I make no award in relation the sale of the 1994 policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint  in part and order Sun Life Assurance  
Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited  to pay her fair compensation as calculated  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0812392