K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how long its taking Advantage Insurance Company  Limited  to resolve  
a claim he made on his car insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with the service hes 
received while this has been ongoing.
background
In April 2017 Mr H was involved in an accident with another car. He says the other driver 
was responsible for the incident. Liability is in dispute as the other driver held Mr H 
responsible for the incident.
Mr H is unhappy with how long it was taking to resolve liability.  He says that he contacted 
Advantage numerous times over 18 months and he says Advantage continually told him they 
were pursuing the other insurer for an admission of liability. And he says he was told they 
would instruct a solicitor  to take the matter to court.
In April 2018 Mr H contacted Advantage again  and he says Advantage told him that theyd 
proposed to settle the claim on a 50/50  split liability basis. Mr H didnt  agree  with this and he 
said he wanted to raise a complaint about  it. Advantage  said theyd review this again. And 
they then instructed a solicitor firm to pursue the claim.
Mr H complained about the length  of time it had taken Advantage to instruct a solicitor to 
pursue the claim. He said the delay is preventing him from reclaiming his excess. And, 
because the claim hasnt been  closed,  hes been charged a higher premium on his renewal. 
Advantage accepted that theyd caused  around  11 months of delays and in total offered him 
£150 in compensation. Mr H didnt think this was enough as it didnt  cover  the £95 excess  
hed had to pay and the £150 extra hes had to pay due to having a fault claim on his 
record. 
In June 2018 Mr H contacted Advantage  again to seek an update. Advantage contacted the 
solicitor firm and it appeared that thered been a further delay to instruct  legal proceedings. 
So Advantage offered him a further £50 in compensation. Mr H remained unhappy with how 
long the claim was taking,  so he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our adjudicator considered it. She said that Advantage had caused a lot of delays  in their 
handling of this claim. She also thought Advantage hadnt kept Mr H updated and had given 
poor information about what was happening with the claim throughout.  And she thought  that 
they should pay Mr H a further  £100  in compensation. 
Advantage didnt  agree.  They said they did try and manage his expectations  by explaining 
they wouldnt be able to pursue the other drivers insurer without an outlay to recover. And 
they said that the other insurer was under no obligation to contact them until they had an 
outlay.
Advantage also said that, although they agreed  the claim has been protracted, this was 
because of the other drivers reluctance  to contact their insurer.  They  did however, accept 
they could have been more proactive in the later stages of the claim. But they thought  the 
compensation theyd  already offered was enough.
Ref: DRN01175802Our adjudicator reviewed  this, and said:
She acknowledged theyd looked to manage Mr Hs expectations by telling  him they 
couldnt pursue  the other  drivers insurer without an outlay to recover  i.e. his repair  
cost. But she said that Advantage  received the invoice in July 2017. And in August 2017,  
when Mr H called up, Advantage incorrectly said they were still waiting on the invoice. 
She said that Advantage didnt actually  send the invoice to the other drivers insurer for 
three months after receipt.
She said, following  this despite saying proceedings could be issued after the outlay had 
been incurred;  this didnt happen until April 2018.
She acknowledged Advantage had awarded compensation, but she thought this didnt 
take into account the ongoing nature of the dispute, which  she felt could have reasonably  
been settled now.
Because Advantage didnt  agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ill be upholding this 
complaint and I require  Advantage to pay further  compensation.
Advantage have  said they could have instructed the solicitors around 11 months  earlier than 
they did. Theyve also accepted theyve given Mr H poor service  with their communication.  
Its clear from the notes Ive seen  that Advantage havent been proactive in either updating  
Mr H on his claim, or in trying to move it forward. On at least  two occasions  I can see they 
told Mr H they were  going to instruct their solicitors to resolve the liability  issue   but then 
didnt progress the claim for several  months.
Advantage have  explained the response  of the other  driver  or their insurer is outside of their 
control  which  has contributed to the delays.  And I do accept this. But as Ive mentioned 
above theres things  they could have done  better. They should have instructed solicitors  
around nine months  before they did, despite  continually telling Mr H thats what  they would 
do. And its clear that these delays caused  Mr H increased frustration throughout.
Having thought about everything Mr H and Advantage  have said, I dont think £200  is 
enough compensation taking into account  all the distress and inconvenience Advantage has 
caused Mr H in this complaint.  And I think they should pay him a further £100 compensation 
in settlement of this complaint.
I note Mr H is unhappy that he still hasnt had the excess he paid back  and still has a fault 
claim against him. But I dont think theres a guarantee  he will get that back, as we wont 
know the outcome  of the claim until the court reviews  it. So Im not requiring Advantage to 
refund the excess Mr H paid and treat the claim as non-fault.
Ref: DRN01175803my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. And I require Advantage Insurance Company  
Limited to increase the amount of compensation theyve offered to £300. And they should  
pay this to him directly  within 28 days of him accepting this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0117580