K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
background
Mr S opened  a store card account in a shop  in February 2001. FICLs records  show that PPI 
was added to his account in February 2002, following a phone call.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Mr Ss card each 
month if hed been unable  to work  because  of injury or sickness, or if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont  know what was said to Mr S about  the PPI during the phone  call when the policy  
was sold. Mr S says he didnt agree to take the policy and had no idea what PPI was. 
But Mr S opened  his store  card account  in February 2001. So at the point when  he took 
out the PPI, hed already had the account  for around a year. I think  its unlikely, in the 
circumstances, that hed have thought that the cover was compulsory. And based on 
what we know  about how FICL sold these policies at around this time and everything 
weve seen in the past, I think its more  likely  than not that it would have  made it clear 
during the phone call that PPI was optional and that Mr S would have  been  asked to 
agree to the cover  if he wanted  it.
Ive also borne in mind that once the insurance  was added to his account, monthly 
premiums would have started to show on Mr Ss store card statements. If he hadnt  
wanted the insurance, or wasnt aware  that hed taken it out, I think  its likely  hed have 
queried this at the time. Ive seen nothing to suggest that he did so.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr S decided to take out 
the cover, knowing that he didnt have to  although I can understand why he may no 
longer remember this, so long after the event.
Ref: DRN00637542FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S. So it didnt have to check that it was right for 
him. It was for Mr S to decide whether to take the cover, knowing what  other means hed 
have had of making his monthly store card repayments if he was off sick, or if he lost his 
job. But FICL did have a responsibility  to give Mr S clear enough information to enable 
him to decide whether  the policy was right for him.
I accept that its possible the information  FICL  gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  as if he 
wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that now.  Based on what  
hes told us about his circumstances at the time, Mr S was eligible to take out the policy. 
And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that it was unaffordable for him.
Mr S has told us hed have been entitled  to between three and six months sick pay from 
his employer at the time, followed by statutory sick pay. If hed made a successful  claim 
on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have  paid a monthly  
benefit 15% of what he owed on his store card. And it would have done this each month 
until his credit agreement  ended, or he returned to work, or the outstanding balance at 
the time of his claim had been repaid-  whichever was the earliest.
So the PPI policy would potentially have covered Mr S for longer  than hed have been 
entitled to sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments 
he received from his employer, allowing him to use those to cover  other  day-to-day  
expenses. And he wouldnt have had to use his savings to make  his store  card 
repayments. 
Ive borne in mind  that Mr S has also told us that he could have relied  on family support 
and his wifes income to make his store  card repayments if necessary. But 
circumstances can change, and I cant be sure Mr Ss wife and family  would  have been  
in a position to help if the need  had arisen. Taking everything  into account,  I think the 
PPI policy could  have  been useful for Mr S.
Based  on what hes told us about his circumstances at the time, Mr S doesnt appear  to 
have been affected  by any of the main  things the policy  didnt cover (for example, 
existing medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements). So taking everything 
into account, Im not convinced that better information about  the PPI would have put 
Mr S off taking it out. This means  I dont think hes lost out as a result  of anything that 
FICL may have  done wrong.
Ive taken into account all Mr Ss comments,  including what hes said about complaints hes 
made about other PPI policies having been  upheld. I can understand his disappointment. But 
we consider each  case individually,  and for the reasons Ive set out, Im not convinced  that 
the PPI was mis-sold  in this case. So this doesnt  change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN00637543my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0063754