K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital  One) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr M took out in 2009. It was added  to his 
account when  he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Capital One disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint for the same reason as our adjudicator did. Ill 
explain the reason  why again.
I dont think Capital One gave Mr M clear  enough  information about the policy. I say this 
because I dont think Capital One made it clear that it wouldve been  harder  for someone 
who was self-employed  to make an unemployment  claim than someone who was employed.  
I think this would have  mattered to Mr M because  he was self-employed  and so this wouldve 
affected him, by making it harder for him to claim the unemployment benefit provided by the 
PPI than he expected.
I dont think Mr M wouldve bought the policy  if Capital One had given him enough 
information about it. So, I think Mr M has lost out because of what Capital One did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Capital Ones comments, including  what  it said about the evidence 
Mr M provided to show he was self-employed in 2009. 
Whilst I understand Capital Ones points, Mr M has submitted copies of letters  from HM 
Revenue and Customs  relating  to Self-Assessment from 2005 and 2016. Self-Assessment  
tax returns are generally completed  by self-employed people,  and looking at the type of work 
Mr M did, I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that he probably was self-employed 
based on these  documents. 
Im also satisfied that although  the documents provided arent dated 2009, when the policy 
was sold, they do span across that time.  And on balance, Im satisfied that its more  likely 
than not that Mr M was indeed self-employed in 2009, like he says he was.
Having carefully considered everything, based on what Ive said above, I uphold  this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN05263412putting things right
Capital One should put Mr M in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken  out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.Capital One should find out how much Mr M would owe on his credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Capital One should then refund the difference between what  Mr M owes  and what  he 
would have owed
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Capital One can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when Capital  One works out what Mr M would have owed  each month without PPI  
Mr M paid more  than enough  to clear his balance, Capital One should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr M paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point  
when Mr M wouldve owed Capital  One something on his credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year
C.I understand Capital One has already  refunded some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. 
Capital One can deduct this from the final payment it makes to him.
D.Capital One should tell Mr M what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Capital  One to take off tax from this interest.  Capital One must  
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require Capital One (Europe) 
plc to put things  right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0526341