K820x#14complaint
Miss T(1) and Miss T(2) say Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss T(1) and Miss T(2) took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2001,  which they paid a 
monthly amount  for.  They took out a further advance on their mortgage  in 2005 and 
increased the benefit the policy would pay out if they had made a successful claim. The 
policy was in the name of Miss T(1) only. 
In the event of a successful claim if Miss T(1) wasnt able to work because  of accident, 
sickness or involuntary redundancy, the policy would have covered the mortgage 
repayments for up to 12 months per claim. 
Miss T(1) and Miss T(2) say that Santander didn't make it clear  that they could have taken a 
PPI policy  with another provider if theyd wanted to. They werent  given a choice about it. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be uphold.  
Miss T(1) and Miss T(2)  disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss T(1) and Miss T(2)s  case. 
After careful consideration Ive decided that Miss T(1) and Miss T(2)s PPI policy wasnt  
mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Miss T(1) and Miss T(2)  say they werent made aware they could have taken a policy with a 
different PPI provider. Santander didn't have any obligation to inform 
Miss T(1) and Miss T(2) about any other PPI policies from any other providers. But when  it 
sold or was telling Miss T(1) and Miss T(2) about  its own PPI policy it had to ensure they 
knew it was optional. But I think that Santander made Miss T(1) and Miss T(2)  aware  they 
had a choice about buying  the PPI. 
Santander doesnt have Miss T(1) and Miss T(2)s  original mortgage paperwork, but thats 
not surprising  given the time thats passed.  But Santander has been  able to give us a 
sample copy of the PPI application that Miss T(1) and Miss T(2)  would have needed to 
complete if they had wanted to take the policy. This was separate  from the mortgage 
application so this suggests they were separate products  and it wasnt essential to take the 
PPI in order for the borrowings  to have been  agreed to. And by making Miss T(1) and Miss 
T(2) aware they had a choice about  taking the policy this would have implied they didn't  
have to take it or that they had to take it with Santander. So they could have looked to 
another provider  if they had wanted to. 
Ref: DRN01218662Santander recommended  the PPI to Miss T(1) and Miss T(2), so it had to check  it was right 
for them. And based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was.
Miss T(1) was working at the time of the sale and Miss T(2) wasnt  in paid employment so I 
can understand why it was agreed  the policy should be in the name  of Miss T(1) only as it 
would appear  she was solely responsible for the mortgage repayments.  
Miss T(1) has told us she would have received some sick pay from her employer  if she 
wasnt able to work. But Miss T(1)s  sick pay would only have been paid for a limited period 
whereas the policy  would have made  the repayments for up to 12 months per claim,  so for 
longer than the sick pay. And it would have paid out over and above any employee benefits, 
so they could have been used for other  essential outgoings. 
Miss T(1) and Miss T(2)  havent told us of any other  financial means they could have used 
and the insurance  was intended to protect them against the unexpected. I think  it could have 
given them a level of comfort they wouldnt otherwise have had. So I dont think the 
recommendation was unsuitable. 
As well as making a suitable recommendation, Santander also had to give 
Miss T(1) and Miss T(2)  clear information,  and enough of it, so they could decide if the 
policy was right for them.
From the sample document  Santander  has given us the monthly cost of the policy would 
have been shown and there was a choice about  the type of cover. So I think 
Miss T(1) and Miss T(2)  would have understood how much  they would need  to pay for it and 
what the policy would cover Miss T(1) for.  
Its possible that Santander didnt point out the main  things the policy  wouldnt cover   a 
pre-existing medical condition as an example. But Miss T(1) doesnt  appear to have been 
affected by any of those  things. 
Miss T(1) and Miss T(2)  took on a significant financial commitment secured against  their 
home and the penalties  for not making  the repayments were  considerable  even going as 
far as losing their home. So the policy provided  important protection, at what could have 
been a financially difficult time. 
I know Miss T(1) and Miss T(2) will be disappointed with my decision.  But I would like to 
assure them I have  thought very carefully  about what  they have told us, their circumstances 
at the time, what they say they were told and what we know of Santander. But after taking all 
of the above into consideration, overall  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.  
Ref: DRN01218663my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss T(1) and Miss T(2)s complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask 
Miss T(1) and Miss T(2)  to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0121866