K822xcomplaint
Mr C is unhappy with the handling  of a claim by Great Lakes Insurance SE under his mobile 
phone insurance  policy. 
background 
Mr C made  a claim under his policy in August 2017.  He sent his phone in for repair  and I 
understand it was received by Great Lakes  on 31 August 2017.  Great  Lakes repaired the 
phone and sent it back to Mr C on 11 September 2017.
 
However, Mr C says the phone was losing charge and would turn itself off. Mr C had to send 
it back in for further repair.  Great Lakes had the phone on 13 September 2017  and 
eventually deemed  it beyond economic repair and provided a replacement  on 22 September  
2017. 
However, the replacement phone was also faulty and would freeze.  Mr C reported this to 
Great Lakes on 17 January 2018. Mr C had to send the phone  back  again. It was fixed  and 
returned but failed again in February  2018  and so Mr C had to return it and was provided  
with a replacement.  
In total, I understand that Mr C had to return it three  times and was without his phone for 
some time as a result of the faults.  Mr C is very unhappy about the amount of time he was 
without his phone and the trouble and costs  he incurred in getting  his claim dealt with; it cost 
him around  £4 each  time he had to send  the phones back  to Great  Lakes. Mr C asked for  
his excess and premiums  to be refunded and compensation.  
Great Lakes offered Mr C £75 compensation for the trouble caused to him.  
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and did not recommend that it be upheld.  He 
thought that Great Lakess offer was reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Mr C doesnt accept  the adjudicators assessment and so the matter  has been referred to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration with the handling of his claim. He was repeatedly  
provided with phones that became  faulty.  As a result, he was without  a phone for longer than 
should have been the case. Mr C also incurred expenses in returning the phones to Great  
Lakes. 
Great Lakes did however respond  promptly and tried to resolve the issues.  I am satisfied 
that the £75 already offered is reasonable in all the circumstances and is in line with awards 
made in similar cases.  
Mr C is also unhappy that the phones provided were refurbished  but the policy does provide 
Great Lakes with the right to provide  refurbished  phones as replacements.  I dont consider 
this is inherently unreasonable.
Ref: DRN01434402Mr C has successfully claimed under the policy and Great Lakes  has fulfilled its obligations 
under the policy  and so I am not persuaded it is appropriate that the premiums or the policy 
excess are refunded.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE, as it has already made a 
reasonable offer in response to the complaint.  If Mr C wishes  to accept the £75 offered by 
Great Lakes Insurance SE, he should confirm acceptance of this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0143440