K821x#15complaint
Mr J and Ms J complain  about issues theyve experienced with a car supplied with finance 
from Go Car Credit Limited.
background
In July 2018 Mr and Ms J were supplied with a car and entered  into a finance agreement  
with Go Car Credit. At the point of supply the car was 8 years old and had covered 69,921  
miles.
Mr and Ms J experienced issues with the engine cutting out intermittently. They  contacted 
the supplying  dealer  who inspected the car but found no faults.
Mr and Ms J continued to experienced issues and reported these to Go Car Credit. Go Car 
Credit asked them to provide  a diagnostic report. Mr and Ms J took the car to a garage  but 
no faults were diagnosed.  Go Car Credit  said there  was insufficient evidence  of a fault and 
rejected the complaint.
Mr and Ms J werent happy  with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said there was evidence that the car had broken 
down on a number  of occasions  during the first 6 months , some of which  had had been 
attended by a breakdown organisation. The investigator said that because  the fault had 
arisen in the first 6 months  it was up to the business to show that it wasnt present at the 
point of supply.  The investigator felt that there was sufficient evidence that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality and recommended that Go Car Credit ended the agreement.
Go Car Credit didnt  agree. It said the evidence didnt show  that there  was a point of supply 
fault. It acknowledged that there were issues with the car but said that the reports showed 
that this was due to low fuel. It said it was prepared to arrange  an independent inspection.
Shortly afterwards Mr and Ms J told this service that the car had cut out again whilst driving 
at 30 mph and had failed to restart. They said the motor rescue  organisation which attended 
had told them not to use the car because it was dangerous to drive.
Go Car Credit hasnt  arranged an independent  inspection.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Go Car Credit  has supplied the car under  a hire purchase agreement, theres an 
implied term that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory  quality if 
they are of a standard that a reasonable person would expect taking into account all of the 
relevant circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid. I would  expect a second  hand  car such  as that supplied  to Mr and Ms J to 
have a degree of wear  and tear. So in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be 
satisfied that that car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply due to an inherent 
defect rather than general wear and tear.
Ref: DRN07382292Mr and Ms J and Go Car Credit disagree  about  whether the car had a fault at the point of 
supply. In order to reach  a decision  I need  to look at the available  evidence and determine, 
on the balance  of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply.
Mr and Ms J experienced issues with the engine cutting out and the car failing to start within 
a few weeks of the point  of supply. I can see that a motor rescue organisation was called out 
on a number of occasions in September  2018.  The notes record that there was a loss of 
power and a fuel level low code showing.  The car was inspected  by a third party  garage  but 
no faults were found. Despite this, Mr and Ms J continued to experience  issues and 
complained to Go Car Credit.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault occurs in the first 6 months  theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing  at the point of supply unless the business can 
show otherwise. So in this case its up to Go Car Credit to show  that the fault wasnt present 
at the point of supply.
Id expect a business to arrange for an independent inspection in circumstances such as 
this. But Go Car Credit  didnt do this; instead it asked Mr and Ms J to provide further 
evidence of the fault.
Ive taken into account all of the reports from the motor rescue organisation, as well as the 
reports from the garages which have carried out inspections  of the car. Ive also had regard 
to a video supplied by Mr and Ms J which  shows the fault occurring. The video is dated April 
2019 and shows  the car cutting out and restarting after several  attempts at turning the key in 
the ignition.
Although the garages which have inspected the car havent diagnosed any faults, Im 
persuaded, based on the available evidence, that there was an intermittent fault with the car 
which caused the engine to cut out. Because the fault arose within the first 6 months, Im of 
the view that it was present or developing at the point of supply.  I dont think the car is of 
satisfactory quality.
Because the fault is intermittent its difficult to diagnose. So it hasnt been possible to carry 
out repairs. I dont  think this is likely to change in the short term. In the circumstances I dont  
think asking Go Car Credit to pay for repairs is a reasonable way forward.  Mr and Ms J 
havent driven the car for several months  because theyve been told its unsafe. In the 
circumstances I think Mr and Ms J should be allowed to reject the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Go Car Credit Limited must:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr and Ms J
Record the agreement  as settled on Mr and Ms Js credit files
Refund the deposit of £100 together with simple interest at 8% from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund 5 monthly  payments to reflect impaired  use
Pay compensation of £300 for distress  and inconvenience
Ref: DRN07382293Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0738229