K820x#14complaint
Ms P says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Ms P bought the policy  in 2009 some time after taking out the mortgage. She applied for the 
PPI policy  in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Ms P for accident, sickness,  and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £344.91 a month towards  Ms Ps mortgage  
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £20.48  a month.  
At the time,  Ms P was employed  as an administrator.  She has told us she was entitled to at 
least six months full sick pay from her employer and had some easily accessible savings.  
She has also told us she had death  in service benefit equal  to two times her salary.  Ms P 
has said she had a medical condition at the time of the sale.  
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in 2005 and that it 
was a regulated  mortgage from the start. 
Ms Ps representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ps representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Ps 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Ms P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Ms P and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Ms P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN06267362Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ps. I dont intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ps complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2009 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
Ref: DRN06267363The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so BoS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Ms Ps complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Ms P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Ms P sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms P suffered loss or 
Ref: DRN06267364damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms P and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Ms P know she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Although we dont  have  a copy of the actual application form completed  at the time of the 
sale, the other documents Ive seen  show that the policy is likely to have been presented  as 
optional. My understanding  of the sales process, and the documentation Ms P would have 
been provided with at the time of the sale,  is that PPI would have been presented  as 
optional. I havent  seen evidence which would suggest to me that BoS deviated from this 
sales process in this particular case.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Ms P knew  the policy  was optional and 
she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says it provided  advice during  this sale. Looking  at what  happened  when BoS sold     
Ms P the PPI, Im persuaded that it provided advice.  This is because this was a face to face 
sale and the documents Ive seen following the sale show  that BoS advised Ms P to take 
PPI.
This means  BoS had to advise  Ms P with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BoS took some steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for 
Ms P. The adviser had information about  some of Ms Ps financial circumstances as part of 
the mortgage application. But although a demands  and needs statement was completed  to 
try and establish whether Ms P had a need  for the policy  by asking questions about her 
wider circumstances  such as any health issues and existing means  I dont think it did 
enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. So for example, it didnt ask Ms Ps what  her actual 
employee benefits and existing provisions  were and why these meant  the policy was still 
suitable for her.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Ms P given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Ms P, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Ms P met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
Ref: DRN06267365-Ms P had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  that Ms Ps ability  to continue  to meet 
her mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if she was not working  
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the sick pay benefits and savings 
she says she would  have been  entitled  to.
-Ms P says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing else to suggest 
the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt  affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Ms P. There was 
nothing about  Ms Ps employment or occupation which  would have made it difficult 
for her to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Ms P has told us about a 
condition she suffered from in 1999  which resulted in her having two operations  and 
shes told us she had to take four months off work for each surgery. However, I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  that this condition re-occurred. Further,  the 
policy would have  covered this pre-existing medical  condition if Ms P had been 
symptom free and hadnt consulted a doctor or received treatment for 24 months 
before a claim.  
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Ms Ps 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Ms P sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms P was given a broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Ms P 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Ms P would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Ms P agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Ms P Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BoS gave Ms P all of the information she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Ps representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
Ref: DRN06267366PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ps representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms P about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ps representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms P has suggested.  And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Ms P? To what extent did Ms P suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Ms P. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms P suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Ms P would have 
still taken out the policy,  had BoS done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Ms P, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Ms P has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly,   
Ms P would  have acted  differently,  or whether she would have taken out the policy  in any 
event.
Ms P says she wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes I should  presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Ms P had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised her that there was a suitable  product 
she could buy that would  protect her mortgage payments in the event she was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
Ref: DRN06267367product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Ms Ps circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Ms P knew she would  have to pay something 
for the policy, I cant see that BoS told her the exact premium  at the point Ms P applied for 
the policy. Having  said that, it seems  likely  Ms P would have been told the cost before the 
policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of months  so if the costs were 
significantly at odds  with her expectations at the point of sale,  its possible she might  have  
raised that with BoS at the time,  or reconsidered her decision. The documentation that 
followed the sale, made the costs clear.
Overall, Im not persuaded Ms P would  have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Ms P would get back  in return  in 
the event she made  a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Ms Ps expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did  if anything, it is more 
likely than not that the policy actually  paid more in the event of a claim than she would have 
expected as there was an additional  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms P thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Ms P  
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  or had 
seen or arranged to have  seen  a doctor about during the 12 months before the start 
date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms P 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms P be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonable qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Ms P pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms P from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Ms Ps circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Ms P says she had a medical 
Ref: DRN06267368condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt ordinarily  have provided cover  
had she needed  time off work because of this condition, I dont think  better information about 
this exclusion would  have  put her off agreeing to it. I say this because  Ms P suffered from 
this medical condition around  10 years before the policy was taken out and there  is no 
evidence to suggest that it continued  to cause her problems which meant  that she couldnt  
work because of it. So I dont think this condition would  have  been  the main  reason that     
Ms P would  have wanted to take the policy out. In any event, the policy  would have covered 
Ms P for this condition had she remained symptom free and not needed to consult a doctor 
or receive  treatment for it in the 24 months  before a claim. And as I say, this policy  was 
taken out some 10 years later and Ms P hasnt mentioned  any ongoing problems because of 
it.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Ms P might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Ms P 
from taking out the policy,  Ms P, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
If Ms P had known she could only claim for disability  if she was not only unable to do her job 
or any similar job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers  view she might  
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about  what she would  do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although given Ms Ps 
circumstances, on balance, I still think she would  have  been interested in taking out the 
cover.
BoS may not have told Ms P that any claim she made  would be limited to a 12 month period. 
This may have differed  from what she expected and might have hoped for. But 12 months  
months was a longer period than Ms P would have received  full sick pay for and her 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Ms P would still have thought a policy that paid up 
to 12 monthly loan repayments  would have been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Ms P be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms P would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Ms P was made  redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Ms P 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN06267369That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms P would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Ms Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms P 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms P in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Ms P compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Ms P thinks  BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Ms P, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2009 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ps representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Ms P and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms P in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Ref: DRN062673610my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 December 2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0626736