K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that TSB Bank  Plc (trading as Whistletree) declined  their application 
to extend their mortgage term, which would have allowed them  more  time to repay their 
interest only mortgage. They said, in summary, that:
Whistletrees mortgage adviser  misunderstood  the income figures they provided
they havent been given any justifiable reason  for not allowing an adjustment to the 
mortgage term
by not granting  an extension  to the term, Whistletree is acting unreasonably by 
denying them further time to repay  their interest only mortgage
the length of time taken to assess the application has been  excessive and theyve 
received poor service  throughout
Mr F has led the complaint. 
background 
Mr and Mrs F took out an interest  only mortgage  with Northern Rock in 2005  for around 
£125,000, over a period of 20 years. Since then, the mortgage has moved from Northern 
Rock to Whistletree.
In May 2018, Mr F contacted Whistletree  to ask if the term of the mortgage could be 
extended to allow more time to repay  the capital. At the time of applying,  Mr and Mrs F were 
paying interest at a rate of 5.2%  and had less than six years  left on the term, with over 
£127,000 left to repay.   
Whistletree offer applications of this kind via a telephone appointment and in the initial call 
with the adviser,  Mr F provided Whistletree with information about his and his wifes income 
and outgoings.  He also explained  that he didnt currently have a plan to repay  the mortgage, 
but that this was why he was asking for more time. The application  was passed to 
underwriters who had concerns that there  was no repayment strategy in place so declined  
the term extension  on a purely  interest  only basis. But they said they would consider a term 
extension based  on their understanding of the consumers circumstances, if part of the 
mortgage was switched to a repayment  basis. 
In June 2018, Whistletree told Mr F this and he agreed to proceed  with the application for a 
revised mortgage term of 13 years  and eight months, as well as a part conversion  of his 
interest only mortgage to a repayment  basis. Once  the underwriters had reached a decision, 
Whistletrees advisor contacted Mr F in July 2018  to let him know and it was agreed that an 
illustration would be produced for Mr F to consider and if returned  along  with any other  
documentation Whistletree needed  the application  would proceed to the next 
stage.               
Unfortunately, on receipt of this information, Whistletree reviewed and declined  the 
application as it said it didnt meet their affordability  criteria because Mr and Mrs Fs income 
was lower than they had said it was and their credit  commitments were higher.
Ref: DRN03504352When Whistletree communicated  this outcome to Mr F, it offered to see if an application for a 
deal switch would be successful, but Mr F declined this at the time. He complained to 
Whistletree as he didnt think it was fair his application was declined  as he said 
they misinterpreted Mr and Mrs Fs income,  because of the way hed been  asked to provide 
evidence of it. 
Whistletree provided its final response  letter to the complaint  in September 2018. In this it 
said it didnt think it had acted unfairly  and that it had to assess  how affordable the mortgage 
would be on the extended term. It said that, as a responsible lender, it had to ensure that the 
proposed change to the mortgage  would be affordable  and the best option going forward  for 
Mr and Mrs F. Whistletree also said that it didnt think the time taken to assess the 
application was excessive. 
Mr and Mrs F brought their complaint  to this service. Our investigator looked  into it and 
concluded that Whistletree hadnt  acted unfairly in declining the application  to extend the 
term. But he thought  it failed to provide an adequate explanation as to why the application  
was declined. So he said that Whistletree should pay Mr and Mrs F £250 compensation in 
recognition of this. 
Whistletree didnt agree  as they thought the explanation they provided was clear. They 
asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Did Whistletree  assess  Mr and Mrs Fs income fairly?
I understand why Mr and Mrs F were  confused that their application was declined.  Ive noted  
that throughout this complaint, Mr F said he thinks it was declined  because Whistletree 
misinterpreted his income.  Hes said that he provided a monthly figure  of his salary based  on 
a twelve-month  rolling average, but Whistletree  later requested  that he evidence  his salary  
over a three-month period.  As this amount was different, Mr F said he thinks  it affected the 
affordability assessment,  so the application was declined. Hes said that it wasnt explained 
to him from the outset  that hed have  to provide proof of income in this way, so the figures 
are slightly  different and thinks  that his application was declined because Whistletree 
misinterpreted this, despite Mr F explaining  this from the outset. 
Mr F is paid weekly  and receives 52 payslips in a year. He also has pension income which  
he receives monthly. Mrs F is paid every four weeks so received 13 payslips in a calendar 
year and receives pension income. Mr F worked out what  they both earned in a year by 
calculating this on a 12-monthly average  and then divided  this by 12 to reach a monthly 
figure.
Ive listened to the initial call in May 2018  and think there was some confusion about  income  
from the beginning. Mr F explained the situation to the adviser  that Mrs F is paid every  four 
weeks, for which he provided a figure. The adviser  took this to be the figure based on 13 
weeks of the year and re-calculated  it to reflect a 12-month calendar year. So unfortunately, 
Mrs Fs income  was recorded as higher  than it was from the outset. Whilst I understand that 
Mr F questioned this figure on the call and he was incorrectly reassured  by the adviser  that it 
Ref: DRN03504353was correct, I dont think  this misinterpretation, or how their proof of income was interpreted, 
led to this application being  declined overall.
I say this as lenders dont just have to consider  income  and expenditure to assess whether it 
would be responsible to lend to a consumer, they are now required  to apply stress tests to 
these calculations. This is to ensure that, should a consumers position worsen  for 
example as a result  of an increase in interest rates  they would still be able to afford  the 
monthly repayments. 
New rules came into effect in April 2014 following the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)s - review  of the mortgage market. These included  a tightening of 
affordability assessments carried out by lenders. Because of this, Mr Fs application  to 
extend his mortgage would have  been treated very differently to when he took his mortgage 
out initially. 
When Whistletree applied  their stress test to Mr and Mrs Fs application, it found that their 
combined income may have been  enough to pass its own lending  requirements, but it wasnt 
enough to pass  the stress  test. Ive asked  Whistletree to provide details of the stress test 
applied in this case and having considered this, Im satisfied  Whistletrees  stressed rate is in 
line with the regulators guidance,  so I dont think the outcome was unreasonable.  
I understand that Mr F did wait sometime to receive  this outcome but this does form part of 
the underwriting and I think its fair that Whistletree could only assess  this when it was able 
to verify Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances by considering  their proof  of income  (which  was 
provided for the previous  three months),  carrying out credit checks and confirming other  
financial commitments. 
So, whilst I dont consider  that Whistletree acted unfairly in assessing Mr and Mrs Fs income 
in the context of the whole application  because of the stress test - I agree with our 
investigator that I dont  think  it explained the reasons it was declined  very well at all. This left 
Mr F confused and led him to spend  time searching  for answers. 
I say this as, when Mr F made a complaint and Whistletree responded, it said that there was 
an income deficit of £188.71 but didnt explain how this figure was reached or how much  the 
application fell short of the stress test. Had Whistletree properly  addressed Mr Fs concerns 
 and explained it had actually confirmed  Mr and Mrs Fs income  to be more  than theyd  
declared  I think this could have saved Mr F much confusion and wasted time and effort. 
Because of this, Whistletree should compensate Mr and Mrs F £250 for the trouble and 
upset caused  by their lack of a clear explanation as to why their application was declined on 
grounds of affordability. This compensation is in recognition of the time spent trying  to get an 
explanation from Whistletree and its impact,  including the delay in taking further  action with 
their mortgage. 
I understand why Mr F didnt want to proceed with the deal switch that was offered at the 
time because I think he had lost confidence  in Whistletree  as they hadnt adequately  
explained their reasons  for declining the application.  I think  this, understandably, would have  
given Mr F reservations in taking any further product out  including  a deal switch - before he 
was satisfied that him and his wifes income  was assessed correctly and fairly. 
Did Whistletree  need  to assess affordability in this case?
Ref: DRN03504354There are provisions in the relevant rules  that apply to the mortgage market  (referred to as 
transitional arrangements - MCOB 11.7.1) which say that a lender has the discretion not to 
complete a full affordability check if the consumer  is an existing borrower  and there are no 
material changes to affordability  but this is provided the change would otherwise be in the 
borrowers best interests. 
Ive considered if this provision could have applied in this case   if it would have been in 
Mr and Mrs Fs best interests to allow  the application. From the documentation,  Ive seen 
that there  was no planned repayment  vehicle, which is why Mr and Mrs F applied  for the 
extension; to provide them further  time to pay the capital back. Whilst I understand why they 
asked for this further time,  Im mindful that they are requesting quite a long extension. At the 
time of making the complaint, Mr and Mrs F had around five years  left. They applied to 
extend the term for a further  eight  years, which would result in a term end date in over 13 
years time. 
The longer  the term is increased, the higher the risk Mr and Mrs F might face of a rate 
increase, or other change in circumstances. And if the switch of part of their mortgage to 
repayment was successful, they would  be paying more in their monthly payments so could 
be even more exposed  to any change in circumstances that could worsen their position.  
Whilst I appreciate that their intention was to fix their rate for five years, this would only 
protect them for less than half of the term extension  that they asked for. This would still leave 
a further eight years in which  Mr and Mrs F are exposed to a risk due to a change in 
circumstances or the market.
Ive noted that they are already receiving pension income,  and if the application to extend  
the term was agreed - by the end of the term, Mr and Mrs F would have been in their 
seventies. Whistletree has said that its maximum age to allow  a term extension to is 75 
years old. Mr and Mrs F would still be under  this age if the extension  had been approved  but 
only by two or three years.  Ive also noted Mr F said that both their incomes  and pension  
payments would be increasing  over the term of the mortgage, which he said could further  
reduce the impact of any stress test  and that they planned to use this additional income to 
make overpayments to their mortgage.
It may have been their plan to continue to work,  but I also think  this further increases the risk 
of the mortgage  not being  repaid in full. I say this as, whilst they may be in good  health now, 
this could unfortunately change and if they did find themselves  in a position where they were 
unable to work, or unable to work in the same manner, or for the same hours as they were at 
the time the application was made, this could affect  their ability  to repay  their mortgage.
I understand Mr Fs point  that, by increasing  the term and switching part of the mortgage to 
repayment, this reduces  the debt profile of the mortgage and should  also impact on the 
stress test. Stress test are instruments used to see if a consumer  can make their contractual  
monthly payments  if interest rates rise. The debt may reduce over time, and if Mr F made  
overpayments as he says he was planning  to do, this could reduce the monthly  payment too 
but that wouldnt have an impact  on the stress test applied in this case, as these are future 
events which  are not guaranteed. 
Mr F is right in saying that the monthly payment  can change over time due to the rate 
applied and debt left to repay  hes said hes asked for a revised calculation of his monthly 
payment in the past. Whilst this may be the case,  the stress test is applied to the 
Ref: DRN03504355circumstances at the time  and not to any future changes like overpayments  that could be 
made, as these are not guaranteed  and are outside a lenders control.  
I wouldnt expect Whistletree  to factor in something that may happen in the future in terms of 
repaying the debt when  applying the stress test. These tests are also applied  for a 
consumers benefit  too so they are not provided  with further  borrowing that could become 
unaffordable, in the event  of a future  change such as an interest  rate rise. 
Mr and Mrs F wont be receiving their full state  pension for a few years and whilst I dont 
doubt they plan to use these additional  funds to contribute to their mortgage, this wouldnt 
have been factored into this application. 
Whilst I understand that Mr and Mrs F applied to make this change  to give them more time to 
repay the capital  of their mortgage,  on balance,  I dont think  that it would have been in Mr 
and Mrs Fs best interests to allow this application. I think  that this is a request for a long 
extension and whilst I understand the point that Mr F makes  that this would give them further  
time to repay the mortgage, I dont think the overall benefits outweigh  the risks here. 
Because this extension  would have taken Mr and Mrs F well into their seventies, this 
increases the risk to their ability to repay  the mortgage. Whilst they both appear to be well 
and are working now, this could change over the next 13 years  and I think  they would be too 
exposed to market  forces - such as an increase in interest rates  over this time, especially 
after their initial five-year fixed rate finished.  
So, considering everything,  I dont think Whistletree  acted  unfairly  by declining Mr and 
Mrs Fs application.  
Mr and Mrs F do still have  five years to left until the end of their term to make other 
arrangements to repay the capital of their mortgage. I would suggest they seek  independent  
financial advice to explore their options. 
Did Whistletree  take too long to assess the application and provide Mr and Mrs F with poor 
service throughout? 
Following the initial  discussion, the application that was put forward  for a revised mortgage 
term of 13 years and eight months,  as well as a part conversion to a repayment  basis was 
quite a complicated one and would  take time to assess. These are significant changes  to a 
mortgage which increase a lenders  risk and I dont consider that Whistletree  took an 
unreasonable amount of time to assess the application  and provide  Mr F with a response. 
The adviser kept Mr F updated throughout and whilst I understand that Mr F has spent time 
and effort  in proceeding with this application  and discussing it over the phone  with 
Whistletree, I do think this is to be expected when making an application of this nature. The 
adviser did miss one appointment, but Ive noted  his colleague  called on his behalf to let 
Mr F know this and arrange another appointment. As it appears that the application was still 
being considered by the underwriter at that stage, I dont think  that this caused  an 
unreasonable delay as another appointment would have been necessary anyway to 
communicate the outcome. 
Whilst I understand that Mr F was disappointed in the result of the application  I dont 
consider that Whistletree acted unfairly when it declined it. Although I dont think  Whistletree 
explained this adequately  to Mr F, I dont consider it took an unreasonable  amount of time to 
reach this outcome. 
Ref: DRN03504356conclusions
Having considered everything, I dont think that Whistletree acted unfairly  when it declined  
this application.  But I think Whistletree didnt explain the reasons why the application was 
declined very well, and caused Mr F unnecessary confusion, trouble and upset  in trying to 
understand the reasons  why.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct TSB Bank Plc (trading as 
Whistletree) to pay Mr and Mrs F £250  trouble and upset in respect of their poor explanation 
of the reasons for the application being declined. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2020.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0350435