K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that, in 2012,  when  he and his wife arranged  two business loans with 
Lloyds Bank  PLC, they were  told they were obliged  to take out a life assurance policy on 
Mr Ks life as a condition  of lending.
They have since discovered that it wasnt a precondition for Mr K to take out this policy.  Mr K 
says he wouldnt have  taken out a policy at all but for the advisers insistence that it was a 
condition of borrowing.
Notwithstanding this, they were  assured the policy would fully cover  the loans throughout 
their term so that, in the event of Mr Ks death at any time, the bank could be satisfied that 
the loans would be repaid  and they could  be satisfied that Mrs K wouldnt need to sell the 
properties Lloyds  had taken as security  for the two loans.
The adviser received  commission for placing this policy with the provider. Mr Ks occupation 
gave him authority to place life assurance business  with insurers for which he received 
commission. If, as Lloyds  has said, the policy wasnt a condition of borrowing, and 
Mr and Mrs K were  simply  recommended to take out an appropriate  policy, if they did feel 
Mr K needed  to take out life cover, he could have  arranged a policy himself.
In any event, the policy wasnt fit for purpose in that it didnt fully cover  the loans because  
the policy provided life cover over 10 years and the loans were repayable over 15 years.  If 
Mr K had died in 2018, the policy would have paid out around £60,000 less than the 
outstanding debt.
As Mr K has now been told the policy had never been a condition  of borrowing, and the 
policy wouldnt repay the loans in full anyway, he has cancelled the policy  and requested a 
refund of the premiums hes paid to it, plus interest.
background
Lloyds has been  unable to provide its file for the two loan applications (other than a copy of 
the loan agreements)  or a file which explains the reason for the sale of the policy.  
From the limited evidence  thats available to us, we understand  that, in January 2012, Mr 
and Mrs K applied for two business loans with Lloyds of £325,000,  plus fees, repayable  on a 
capital and interest basis over 15 years.
According to the loan agreements, Lloyds took a first charge on two properties owned by 
Mr and Mrs K as security. There was no condition in the loan agreements for Mr K to take 
out a policy  on his life. But Lloyds arranged for Mr K to take out a decreasing term assurance 
(DTA) policy  which provided cover  of £325,000,  reducing to nil at a prescribed rate over 10 
years.      
Even though  the loans are repayable over 15 years,  cover on Mr Ks life is provided  by the 
policy over 10 years  and theres  no condition  in the loan agreements  for cover to be taken 
out on Mr Ks life, its evident  that the policy was taken out in connection with the loans.
But, while Mr K says they took out the policy because they were obliged  to do so as a 
condition of lending,  Lloyds maintains the policy was not a condition of lending - it was 
Ref: DRN02091632recommended to Mr and Mrs K to avoid one, or both, of the two properties offered as 
security for the loans  being sold to repay the outstanding debt on Mr Ks death. 
The complaint was investigated by one of our investigators who initially  thought it shouldnt 
be upheld. He said that:
if life cover was a condition of borrowing, it would be set out in the loan 
agreement and it doesnt appear anywhere in the agreement, either  in the 
security schedule or in the preconditions schedule;
without such a condition there  would be nothing  to stop Mr K cancelling the 
policy at a later date;
if life cover was a condition of the loan,  its reasonable to expect Lloyds to have 
taken a charge  over the policy and ensure its term and level of cover coincided 
with the terms of the loan. As it was, the policy wasnt assigned  to Lloyds;
if Mr K could  have arranged the policy  himself  and received  commission from 
the product provider,  he should  have done  so. Lloyds could not have  insisted 
that the policy was arranged  through  one of its adviser;
it was in the advisers interests to arrange  a longer term policy, which would 
have been more expensive and generated more  commission  for Lloyds. So its 
not clear why it would  have arranged a 10-year policy  to cover a 15-year loan;
As there  is no documentation  surrounding  the sale of the policy,  he couldnt be 
sure what  was said at the meetings Mr and Mrs K had with the adviser. But, if 
they were told that the policy benefit wasnt optional and the level of cover  
would reduce in line with the repayment  of the loans, they would have seen the 
error in the policys term;
Otherwise, it doesnt seem logical  for Mr and Mrs K to have taken a 10-year policy 
to cover a 15-year loan;
Also, interest on the loans was linked  to Bank of England base rate and the loan 
agreements allowed for repayment of the capital without penalty. For this reason, its 
possible that Mr and Mrs K elected  to take a smaller policy at lower cost;
Mr K has said they didnt scrutinise the policy documentation. The policy term of 10 
years is shown on both the policy schedule and the key features document  and a 
cursory look would  have  shown  the discrepancy  between the loan term and the 
policy term. Having regard for Mr Ks occupation, it wasnt unreasonable to expect him 
to have reviewed the policy  and loan documentation. 
In response, Mr K disagreed with the investigators  assessment and said that:
he considers the assessment unfair and biased;
his complaint doesnt concern the expiry dates which  serve  to confuse the issues.  It 
refers to the condition that the loans  wouldnt  be granted unless he took out the 
policy;
if he had died during the term of the loans, the policy  would not have fully repaid the 
debt;
only when he discovered in 2018 that he didnt need the policy  did Mr K notice the 
difference between  the level of cover and the outstanding debt after six years;
the loans and the policy are intrinsically linked;
the requirement for life cover would have  been set out in a loan offer letter - it would  
not necessarily have been set out in the loan agreement.  Neither would the policy  
have been assigned to the bank;
Ref: DRN02091633advisers at Lloyds were commission  driven and they were led to believe that it was 
a requirement of the loan so Mr K could  be shown to be taking it out voluntarily;
the adviser should have told them in writing and verbally that the policy would only 
repay some of the debt. They should have  been made aware  of the respective  loan 
and life cover figures after the first year. If they were taking out the policy voluntarily, 
it was imperative to know that the figures  wouldnt coincide during  the term of the 
loan. They were  told that the loan would be covered throughout the term;
but the term becomes irrelevant during the course of the policy as life cover  reduced 
at a greater rate than the rate of repayment of the loans. A table of life cover at the 
start of each year was given on the policy schedule. But the outstanding  balance of 
the loans each year wasnt  shown in the loan documentation. Otherwise,  he would 
have seen the discrepancy immediately;
they were told that, as the borrowing wasnt a straight forward  residential mortgage, 
Lloyds wouldnt sanction the funds without  life cover  being  in place;
they didnt  receive  the policy document until after the loans had been drawdown.
The investigator reconsidered his opinion and felt that the complaint should be upheld due to 
the discrepancy between the terms of the policy and the loans. But he didnt think this 
caused Mr and Mrs K to suffer a financial loss, as follows:
there is no evidence  to suggest the policy was a condition  of the loan. The loan 
agreements make no mention of life cover being  required  where  such  a 
condition would  be expected to be stated;
if cover  on Mr Ks life was a condition  of the loans, this would have been set out 
in the loan agreements.  Otherwise,  if Mr K cancelled the policy at a later date, 
Lloyds would not be able to enforce a condition that the policy  should remain  in 
place;
if life cover was a condition of the loan,  Lloyds would have taken a charge over the 
policy and ensured the policy term matched the term of the loan. Otherwise,  it would 
have no call on the policy  proceeds  to repay the outstanding balance of the loans. 
But Lloyds didnt  take a charge over the policy and Mr K has said that the lending  
manager at the time told him that Lloyds wouldnt insist on the policy  being assigned  
to the bank. 
the lending  manager has also confirmed that, if loan cover was a condition of 
lending, this would have been set out in the offer letter and in the loan agreement 
and there was no mention of such a condition  in either document.  Otherwise,  Lloyds 
would have undoubtedly checked  that the terms of the policy  coincided  with the term 
of the loans;
it does seem from an internal email  in January 2012 that the adviser believed Mr 
and Mrs K had taken the loans over 10 years. But theres no evidence  to confirm 
why the adviser  thought the loans were repayable over 10 years.
So, the investigator concluded  that, while theres  insufficient evidence that the policy was a 
condition of the loan,  the policy was mis-sold in that its term was incorrect.
He explained  that, where  we consider a business  has made an error,  our approach is to put 
consumers back in the position they would have been in (financially) but for that error. In 
this case, Mr K should have been  recommended to take out a 15-year policy.  But the 
premium to such a policy would have been approximately £100 per month, whereas Mr K 
paid £57 per month to the 10-year plan.
Ref: DRN02091634Given, therefore, Mr K has cancelled  the policy, he has paid less in monthly  premiums  
than he would have  been required to pay had the policy been set up correctly. So, there  is 
no compensation as Mr and Mrs K have suffered no financial  loss. 
If, on the other hand, Mr K had died while the policy was still in force, there would  have 
been a financial  loss to consider in the form of the shortfall in claim value to the 
outstanding balance of the two loans. But that didnt happen.
In reply, Mr K maintained that:
the policy was mis-sold and wasnt fit for purpose, so he should  receive  a refund 
of premiums, plus interest;
Mr and Mrs K were  assured  that the policy would fully repay the outstanding  
balance of the two loans, and Mrs K had been  reassured that, in the event of his 
death, she would not need  to sell the properties to repay the outstanding debt;
Given the incorrect term of the policy, Mrs K would still have needed to raise a 
substantial amount to make up the shortfall in the policys claim value to repay the 
loans in full.  
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been referred to me for review.
  
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, other than a copy of the two loan agreements, Lloyds is able to provide very 
little paperwork which records its dealings with Mr and Mrs K when  arranging  this borrowing 
for them in 2012.  And neither the lending manager  nor the adviser  at the time is available to 
recall the terms on which the two loans were negotiated.
As such,  I can only decide this complaint on the evidence thats available as to why Mr K 
took out this policy and whether he was obliged, or it was appropriate for him, to do so. If 
information is lacking,  I consider  on balance  the most likely version of events based on the 
evidence that is available. 
In March 2012, Mr and Mrs K applied  for a business  loan of £325,000 they agreed to repay 
on a capital and interest basis over 15 years.  Lloyds took security for this loan by way of a 
legal charge on properties owned by Mr and Mrs K. But, if it was preferable for the 
outstanding balance of the loan to be repaid on Mr Ks death without selling one of the 
properties, a decreasing  term assurance  policy providing cover  on Mr Ks life of £325,000, 
reducing over 15 years  at a prescribed rate equivalent  to the rate at which  the capital loans 
were repaid,  would have  been appropriate.  
The issue  I need to consider in the first instance is whether the policy  was a condition of 
lending or Mrs and Mrs K were advised  to take out this policy  by Lloyds.           
 
Was the decreasing  term assurance policy a condition of lending?
Mr K maintains that, even though a requirement  to take out a policy  of life assurance doesnt  
appear in the loan facility agreements, it was made  a condition of lending  at the discretion of 
Ref: DRN02091635his business manager. He says Lloyds would not draw  down  the two loans  until a policy on 
his life was in place.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs K previously applied to Lloyds in November  2011  for a substantial  
business loan.  An offer letter it sent to them setting out the terms of this facility expressly 
required Mr K to take out a life assurance  policy and for the policy to be assigned  to the bank 
as additional security to a first charge on the property. Lloyds has said that, even if a policy 
of life assurance was required  at the discretion of the business manager, this condition 
would be incorporated  in the formal  loan facility agreement. 
But neither  Lloyds nor Mr K has been  able to provide me a copy of the formal facility  
agreement that was drawn up for this loan to verify this. As it was, Mr and Mrs K decided in 
January 2012  not to take up this offer.
Mr K says the lending  manager applied the same  condition  to these two loans, but I havent 
seen a similar offer letter  that confirms this. Mr K has provided me a copy of an email he 
received from Lloyds in February 2012  which set out the terms of the loan facilities  of 
£325,000 Mr and Mrs K did take up which  confirms  that: The full terms and conditions  of the 
facility(ies) will be set out in formal facility  documentation and that facility documentation 
when signed will form the legal contract  between  you and the Bank. 
This preliminary offer doesnt  mention  any requirement for Mr K to take out a policy  of life 
assurance and, while  neither  Lloyds nor Mr K has been able to provide a copy  of the actual 
offer letter, the formal  facility agreement doesnt  include this condition.
And Mr Ks current business  manager  at Lloyds has confirmed that the policy  would not have 
been a condition of borrowing unless it was documented  in the facility agreement  itself.
Hence, when Mr K cancelled the policy  in July 2018,  he didnt breach the terms of these 
agreements and the policy proceeds hadnt been  assigned to Lloyds. If Mr K died, the 
outstanding debt would be repaid from the sale of property(ies) on which  Lloyds had taken a 
first legal charge.       
 
I dont dispute  what Mr K says he and Mrs K were told when he and Mrs K applied for these  
loans in January  2012. But, on balance, Im inclined to believe that they were not obliged to 
take out this policy as a condition of borrowing and theres no evidence to suggest they did 
so having been told it was compulsory  when it was, in fact, optional. Neither is there  any 
evidence that the policy was a discretionary requirement of the then lending  manager for 
these loans.
That the policy was set up on the exact same day as the loans were sanctioned doesnt 
necessarily mean the policy was a condition of borrowing.  If Mr K had simply been 
recommended to take out the policy because it was advisable for the debt to be repaid other  
than by selling the properties, the start dates of the policy and loan would still need  to be 
synchronised.
Was the policy a recommendation to Mr and Mrs K and, if so, was that advice suitable?
Lloyds has been  unable to provide a sales file which would explain why the policy was 
arranged for Mr and Mrs K or even indicate  what  discussion took place  between  them  over 
the merits of taking out this policy in connection with the loans. Despite the discrepancy  
Ref: DRN02091636between the term of the policy and the term of the loan, its accepted that the policy was 
arranged to repay the loan in the event of Mr Ks death while  there was an outstanding debt.
The policy wasnt assigned to Lloyds which does  suggest that it wasnt a condition of the two 
loans. Lloyds has also commented that it was generally preferable  that such a large debt, 
especially one secured against  property,  should  be repaid on the death  of the borrower  other 
than by having to sell that property.
In correspondence  with our service,  Mr K has said that he was advised to take out life cover 
due to his age - he was in his late 50s in 2012  and would be over age 70 when the loans 
were due to be repaid.  Hes also intimated that Mrs K would have been  concerned  at the 
prospect of selling the properties  offered as security  for the two loans on his death to repay 
the outstanding debt unless, of course,  she herself could continue to fund the loan 
repayments.       
Mr K has also said the policy was mis-sold to him because he was led to believe it would 
repay the outstanding balance of the debt in full on his death. He now appreciates  that it 
wont do so due to the discrepancy  between the policy  term and the repayment term of the 
loans. I acknowledge  that this concern formed part of his complaint that he believed  the 
policy was conditional  when it was, in fact, optional.
However, all things considered, on balance, I think the policy  was recommended  to Mr K due 
to his age, the size of the two loans and as a means  of providing Mrs K funds in the event of 
Mr Ks death  to repay the outstanding debt without selling the properties  acting as security. 
Based on the very limited  evidence  available  to me of Mr and Mrs Ks personal and financial 
circumstances, I believe  this wasnt inappropriate advice.
The flaw in that advice was that the policy was set up with a term didnt match the repayment  
term of the two loans.  In setting the term of a decreasing term assurance policy  at 10 years  
to repay  a capital repayment loan, its assumed that the term of the loan is 10 years as well, 
such that the reduction in the sum assured under the policy matches the rate of repayment  
of the capital loan.
But, by 2018,  when Mr K discovered the discrepancy, the level of life cover provided  by the 
policy had become almost  £60,000  less than the outstanding amount owed. While the 
reducing level of life cover each  month  over 10 years  is set out in the policy  schedule,  I cant 
assume Mr K ought to have realised that the policy proceeds wouldnt cover the outstanding 
debt if he didnt know what  the outstanding balance of that loan would have  been  each 
month over 15 years.
It seems  that, when Mr and Mrs K didnt take up the offer of the previous loan in January 
2012, and abandoned  the policy application that accompanied  it, the Lloyds adviser emailed 
the policy provider  to confirm that they were  restructuring the loan as £325,000 over 10 
years on a repayment basis and asked if it was possible to modify Mr Ks policy  application 
accordingly. Ive seen no further  correspondence on this issue.
So, either the adviser misunderstood Mr and Mrs Ks borrowing intentions in January 2012 
or she failed to appreciate that their plans changed  by March 2012 to borrow over 15 years.
Either way, if the adviser was recommending  Mr K to take out a DTA policy to cover  capital  
repayment loans  in full, it was incumbent  on her to ensure that the level of cover and term of 
the policy coincided  with the repayment terms of the two loans.
Ref: DRN02091637Of course,  I cant  be absolutely sure that the adviser  didnt recommend  the policy to help 
repay the loans  due (say) to cost considerations. But I would expect any reduction in the 
premium to be achieved  through a reduction  in cover and not a reduction  in term by five 
years. As it was, by April 2022, the policy would have provided no life cover whatsoever  for 
loans that would still have had a substantial outstanding balance.
   
So Im inclined to believe that Lloyds made an error  in setting the policy  term at 10 years. 
The question is whether this has caused Mr K a financial  loss.
If the policy term had been  correctly set at 15 years over which  the level of life cover  would  
reduce at roughly the same rate as the loans were being repaid, the monthly  premium  would 
have been around £100. But, while the policy he actually took out was in force,  Mr K 
received the benefit of a level of life cover (albeit one that fell progressively short of the 
outstanding debt) for a premium  of £57 per month. If Mr K had died while  the policy  was still 
in force,  the policy would  have paid the sum assured existing at that time. As the policy  
provides pure protection, the premium was the price he paid for this level of cover.
As the investigator  has said, where we consider  a business has made an error, we aim to 
put a consumer back in the position financially they would  have  been  in but for that error. In 
this case, Mr and Mrs K should  have been advised to take out a 15-year policy.  But the 
premium to such a policy would have been £100  per month,  whereas  Mr K paid £57 per 
month to the 10-year  plan.
If Mr K had allowed the policy to remain in force  because he wanted the life cover it provided  
for the loans, I would have asked Lloyds to arrange for the policy  to be rewritten  as a 15 year 
plan to which Mr K would be required to pay the appropriate premium  of £100 per month  
going forward. I wouldnt expect him to make-up the shortfall in monthly premium to-date but 
he would  still be expected to have paid the monthly premium  of £57 since March  2012. 
Likewise, even though Mr K says he didnt require the policy,  he should still pay the premium  
of £57 for the level of life cover the policy provided  as the policy provider was on risk until 
July 2018 to pay the sum assured if he died. 
I accept that, if the policy had become  a claim in the meantime, there would be a financial 
loss to consider,  equivalent to the shortfall  in the claim value against  the amount owed. But, 
as the policy  hasnt become a claim, this loss is hypothetical.
Conversely, if the policy had been  recommended with a 15 year term, and the loan was 
repayable over 10 years, Mr K could  rightly argue that he was over-insured. So, if it was 
appropriate for him to have taken out life cover  for this borrowing, our guidance  would 
require me to return him to the position  he ought  to have  been in but for this error;  i.e. he 
should have taken out a 10-year policy and paid the appropriate for a policy with this term. 
As such,  he would be due a refund of the overpaid  premiums, but not the whole of the 
premiums he paid.
But, in this case, theres no loss as the policy term should  have  been  15 years, which  would 
have cost him £100 and so theres  no overpayment of premiums to refund for the policy  I 
think he ought to have been recommended.
Also, contrary to Mr Ks claim, commission paid to Lloyds for the sale of a 15 year policy 
would have been almost twice the amount it received for a 10 year policy.  And, while it was 
Ref: DRN02091638optional for him to have taken out the policy, which he says he could have arranged himself, 
as things stand,  I dont think hes been  financially disadvantaged in not receiving commission 
for a policy on correct terms that would have cost him approximately £43 per month  more  
than he actually paid while  he held it.
decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint that the policy term didnt 
correctly match the repayment term of the loan. 
But, as theres no financial loss to Mr and Mrs K arising from this error, I make  no award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 May 2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0209163