K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs is unhappy with the amount of compensation Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) has offered 
to settle his complaint about a mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
associated with a loan.
background
Mr R took out two loans  with BoS and with the first loan he also bought a PPI policy. When  
he refinanced the first loan (Loan 1) with the second loan (Loan 2) the PPI ended  and Mr R 
didnt take out a new PPI policy with Loan 2.
Mr R has now complained  he was mis-sold  the PPI. BoS has agreed to uphold  Mr Rs 
complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and offered him £980.72  in compensation. 
Mr R is unhappy with the amount offered and brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator said what BoS had offered to settle  the complaint was fair. Mr R was still 
unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS has agreed to uphold  Mr Rs complaint that the PPI he took out with Loan 1 was mis-
sold. So in this decision Im not looking at how the PPI came  to be sold,  only at how BoS has 
worked out the compensation due for the mis-sale and if what it has offered is fair. 
When Mr R took out Loan  1 in 2001 he bought a PPI policy. The cost of this policy  was 
added to the amount Mr R borrowed  and so he paid interest on the premium when making 
his repayments.  In 2002 Mr R took out Loan  2, which refinanced  Loan 1, but didnt buy a PPI 
policy with Loan  2.
When Loan 1 was refinanced, the PPI was cancelled and some of the cost for the PPI that 
had been added to Mr Rs loan was refunded before the loan was settled. But some of the 
cost remained in the loan amount so Mr R borrowed more for Loan 2 to pay this cost of the 
PPI from Loan 1.
When working out the compensation  Mr R is due, I expect BoS to repay to Mr R all the cost 
of the PPI that he paid when making the repayments for Loan  1. And also it needs to include 
the amount of the PPI costs that were  carried through to Loan 2, together  with any interest 
paid with his repayments for Loan  2 that were caused by the PPI brought  forward.
I have looked  at the calculation that BoS has done to work out the compensation. This 
shows that when  making  the repayments for Loan  1 Mr R paid £222.39 for PPI costs  
including the interest  charged on the premium  that had been  added to the loan. With Loan 2 
Mr R paid £257.19 including  interest  for the PPI costs that had been brought forward.
BoS has also added some compensatory interest  to both of these amounts to compensate  
Mr R for being out of pocket. This compensatory interest is worked out from the date any 
Ref: DRN06135512payment for the PPI was made to the date of settlement when Mr R got all the money back  
for the PPI.
I think BoS has done exactly what I would expect and I think its offer of £980.72, after tax, is 
fair. BoS is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct basic rate tax from the 
compensatory interest.  Mr R can request  from BoS a certificate of the tax deducted  if for any 
reason he wants to raise  the tax paid with HM Revenue and Customs.
Although Mr R has said he isnt happy  with the amount of compensation offered I cannot see 
there is any error in how BoS has worked  out the compensation.  And Mr R hasnt provided 
any evidence or information  to show  why he thinks it should be a different amount. 
Based on what I have seen Im not upholding his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above I think the compensation Bank of Scotland plc has 
calculated to settle Mr Rs complaint about  mis-sold PPI is fair and Im not telling it to do 
anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019. 
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0613551