K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 1999 and 
2002. Mr S says Nationwide Building Society (trading at the time as The Derbyshire) 
mis-sold him the PPI. Ill refer to the business as Nationwide in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the time thats passed, for the 1999 sale not all of the paperwork  completed is now 
available. For the 2002 sale Ive seen  some of the paperwork  that was completed. Ive noted 
Mr Ss comments about taking one parties word over another.  When coming  to my decision 
Ive to weigh  up all the available evidence before deciding what  I think  is more  likely than not 
to have happened at the time of each sale. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
1999 sale: due to the length of time since this sale took place (nearly 20 years), 
theres no documentary  evidence to show how the PPI was presented to Mr S or his 
consent to taking it out. 
This isnt unusual given how long ago the sale was. In order  for me to uphold  this 
complaint, Id have  to think that Mr Ss account was more likely than that of 
Nationwides. 
But as these events  happened so long ago and as theres no documentary evidence 
to support either  partys position,  I have to conclude that Mr Ss account of the 1999  
sale is only as likely  not more likely . So, on balance I cannot  safely conclude that the 
policy wasnt presented  as optional or that Mr S wasnt given a choice to take PPI. 
2002 sale: for this sale there are copies of some of the paperwork completed. For 
example, Ive seen  a copy of the Mr Ss signed  mortgage application.  This form had a 
section titled Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance. 
In this section its stated; We strongly recommend  that you carefully  consider your 
arrangements to protect your mortgage payments,  in the event that you are unable to 
work because of Accident, Sickness  or Unemployment.  
Beneath this there are 5 options for PPI:
oTheres an option to request  a quote  for accident, sickness  and 
unemployment cover;
oan option to request  a quote for accident  and sickness  cover only;
oan option to request  a quote for unemployment cover only;
oan option to state  that PPI is being arranged through a different  provider;  and 
oan option to indicate if PPI isnt required.  
Ref: DRN09422292A tick has been placed next to the option  to receive  a quote for accident, sickness 
and unemployment  cover. Ive also seen a separate form signed by Mr S called a 
Paymentscover Insurance  Declaration. On this form there  are options for PPI, 
similar to above. A tick has been  placed  next to the option to take PPI and Mr S has 
signed the form  so I think this indicates that he wanted PPI. 
Although Mr S has said that he was forced into taking out PPI and that he was told it 
was mandatory,  the paperwork  from the 2002  sale doesnt support what  Mr S has 
said. As I dont know what was discussed during  the meeting, if the events happened 
as Mr S has described, I think that he quite reasonably would have questioned why 
he was told that he had to take PPI when the paperwork presented  it as an optional  
choice. Ive also further considered the point that Mr S has made  about  PPI being 
mandatory. But Ive seen a copy of the mortgage  offer from 2002 and nowhere on the 
document does  it make  any reference  that could reasonably be interpreted  as PPI 
being mandatory. For example, the conditions make  no reference to PPI.
Pressure can be subjective and what feels like pressure to one person may not to 
another. As these sales took place  in meetings where Nationwide were  making  a 
recommendation to take PPI, its possible that the adviser may have said that Mr S 
should take PPI, but this is very different to them saying  that he had to take PPI. 
I havent seen  evidence that Mr S was pressured.  
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that Nationwide made  it clear  that Mr S 
didnt have to take out the PPI policies and that he chose  to take them  out.
Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances in 1999 and 2002,  I think  
that it was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  
Although Mr S has complained that the PPI wasnt affordable,  Ive not seen  evidence  
to support what hes said. Although I havent seen  supporting evidence  for the 1999 
sale, on the 2002 mortgage  application, its been  recorded that Mr Ss net disposable 
income was £530.  At another point theres  a question that stated; How much do you 
feel you can comfortably set aside  for your mortgage costs? The figure  of £400 has 
been recorded. Mr Ss monthly mortgage  repayment  was £305.70
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the 2002 PPI policy to Mr S because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about  that. Because Nationwide didnt tell 
Mr S, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN09422293To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what hes said about not needing PPI 
because of his existing means,  which  included  a period of full sick pay in 1999 and 2002 and 
also some  savings in 2002.  But the PPI could have paid out for up to 12 months per claim - 
which is for longer  than Mr Ss existing means likely would have lasted for. Mr S was also 
solely responsible  for making the repayments on his mortgage and given the potential 
consequences if he was unable to do so, I still think that the recommendation to take PPI 
was suitable and it was right for him. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium for the 2002  policy. Nationwide  should also pay back  to Mr S 
any extra  interest  he paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr S the extra he paid each  month because  the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide should also pay    
Mr S 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  for the 2002 policy.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0942229