K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  HSBC  UK Bank Plc didnt  let him sell shares hed received from a corporate 
action as quickly as he wanted.
background
Mr L had shares in a company Ill call A. He held the shares  in his HSBC  investment account 
with HSBC also acting  as the nominee  holder of Mr Ls shares on his behalf.
A announced it was carrying  out a rights issue to raise capital. HSBC wrote  to Mr L informing 
him of the action.  One of the options  presented to shareholders was to subscribe for 
additional shares in A. Mr L said he wanted  to subscribe for his full entitlement  of new 
shares.
HSBCs letters about the rights issue said that new shares are due to be paid on or around 
25 May 2018. Following  receipt of these shares,  well apply them  to your account as soon as 
reasonably possible.
HSBC said it received the shares  for Mr L and all the other beneficial owners for whom  it 
acted as nominee on 25 May 2018. It began a reconciliation process the next working day 
on 29 May, and applied the shares to Mr Ls account  the day after that.
Mr L complained. He said he wanted  to sell his holding  as soon as he received his 
entitlement from the rights issue. And as HSBC had the shares from 25 May, he should have 
been able to sell from that point onwards. He said the delay in crediting his account until 
some days  later had caused  him a loss because  As share price had fallen in the meantime.
HSBC said it had processed the shares  from the rights  issue  in a reasonable time, and didnt 
think it should be held responsible for Mr Ls perceived losses. But it paid him £50 to 
apologise for the time it took to respond to his complaint.
One of our investigators  looked into things. She thought HSBC acted fairly in the way it 
handled the rights issue,  and the steps  it took between receiving the shares from A and 
crediting them to Mr Ls account.  So she didnt  think it should pay Mr L for his losses.
Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. I wrote  to him to say that, 
whatever HSBC had done, As share price went up again soon after he did receive  his 
shares. For some time in June 2018  it had traded above the price it had been on 25 and 
29 May. So I thought  he may have had an opportunity  to sell the shares  at the price  hed 
wanted to. 
Mr L maintained HSBC should  be held responsible  for his inability to sell his shares  when he 
wanted to. He didnt think what happened later on was relevant.
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Mr Ls shares were held in HSBCs investment account, and HSBC was the nominee 
shareholder. So while  Mr L was the beneficial owner of the shares, it was HSBCs 
name on the register. Along with any of its other customers who subscribed for As 
rights issue,  HSBC would have made one subscription application on their behalf  and 
the resulting shares were  then received  by HSBC on 25 May 2018.
Ref: DRN00534222HSBCs said once it received the share entitlement it had to carry out checks  and 
reconciliation before  allocating individual entitlements to customers  accounts. It took it 
around two working  days to do so. When it wrote to Mr L about  the rights  issue  HSBC 
said it would  credit his account  with his new shares  as soon  as reasonably  possible 
once it had received  them. Im not currently persuaded that the time HSBC took to 
credit Mr Ls account was reasonable.
In this case, HSBC  had subscribed for shares under a rights  issue.  As far as Im aware  
it would  have subscribed for a number of shares  equal to the combined subscription 
requests of all the beneficial  owners  for whom it was a nominee. So it should  have 
known how many shares it had subscribed  for, and how many of those were for the 
benefit of each of its customers.
That means it would have known how many shares  it was expecting to receive  on 25 
May. HSBC hasnt said the entitlement it was sent differed from its expectations. That 
being the case, I cant currently see a good reason why it would then take two working 
days to consolidate  that shareholding.  
While I understand HSBC needs to ensure it correctly  accounts for all the assets it 
holds for customers,  I dont think the time things took here was reasonable. I say that 
taking into account  the context of the transaction in question. 
Mr L wanted to subscribe  for more shares in A, and was reliant  on HSBC to make that 
subscription and receive those shares  on his behalf.  HSBC had all the information in 
order to know what it was expecting ahead of its receipt of shares  on 25 May. And I 
think it ought to have ensured Mr L could sell his shares, if he wanted to, sooner.
The subscription shares became eligible for trading from 25 May.  So any shareholders  
whod subscribed  were able to take decisions and act from the time they received  their 
shares on 25 May. Because of HSBCs  delay in crediting Mr Ls account, he was left at 
a disadvantage  compared to other A shareholders. I think  that was a disadvantage he 
neednt have been exposed to if HSBC  had taken account of his interests and credited 
his account promptly.
Mr L has been consistent in his assertion that he wanted to sell his A shares as soon 
as he could once  hed received his rights issue entitlement. This is supported by his 
messages to HSBC  chasing up his holding on 29 May. I find his testimony plausible  
and persuasive, and Im satisfied Mr L would have sold his shares if he knew he could.
Ultimately, HSBC agreed to hold Mr Ls shares on his behalf and follow  his instructions 
about what to do with them. On 25 May HSBC was in possession of Mr Ls shares.  
Crediting the shares to Mr Ls account was effectively informing him that it had 
received the shares and he could now sell them if he wanted to. I think  thats  
something HSBC ought to have done  much  sooner  than it did. And Im satisfied had it 
told Mr L it had received the shares hed have  sold his holding on 25 or 29 May.
The question remains to what  extent  this caused the losses Mr Ls claiming for. 
By the time his shares were in his account,  their price had fallen. Mr L wants to be 
compensated for that fall. Hes said the courts wouldnt take into account  anything that 
happened afterwards  when looking at whether he could have mitigated his losses.
Ref: DRN00534223Im not bound by what compensation a court might award. And whatever  view the 
courts might  take, Im not persuaded in these particular circumstances it would be fair 
and reasonable to require  HSBC to pay Mr L the difference in share price hes asked 
for.
That sum might be a fair amount to award  if I thought, through  HSBCs actions, hed 
been prevented  from taking the opportunity of selling his shares  at the 25-29 May 
price. But once he received his shares  a few days later, he has been  able to sell his 
shares whenever he wanted.  And soon after he got the shares, As price was back  
where it was on 25 and 29 May. Within a few weeks it was in fact trading substantially  
higher.
So HSBC  prevented Mr L from selling when he wanted to, by not crediting the shares 
to his account as quickly  as it should  have done.  But it didnt stop him selling at the 
price he wanted. Because he could have done so soon after he got his shares.  As a 
result I dont  currently think HSBC caused Mr L the loss hes claiming for. And so I 
dont think it would be fair to require it to compensate him for that loss.
But Mr L has had to chase HSBC for his shares and Im satisfied  it would have been 
upsetting not to be able to sell when he wanted.  So I think HSBC  should pay him £150 
(on top of the £50 its already paid him) to say sorry for the trouble hes been  caused.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr L nor HSBC replied to my provisional decision,  I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions  I drew then. I therefore  make those findings again here and make them final.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  here and in my provisional  decision  I uphold this complaint and direct 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr L £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0053422