K820x#14The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them  payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.
What happened
In 1989 Mr and Mrs J took out a mortgage and PPI was added  to the account. The policy  
cost £9.90 a month and it provided a benefit  to cover their mortgage  repayments. The policy  
was only in Mr Js name  as Mrs J wasnt working at the time. Upon a successful claim the 
policy would have paid out for both accident/sickness and unemployment  for up to 12 
months per claim. 
Mr and Mrs J then took out a further  advance in 1990 and PPI was also added at a cost of 
£3.64 a month.  Again,  the benefit  of the policy was solely in Mr Js name. The PPI policies  
and the mortgage ended  in 2013.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagree so the complaint comes  
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Lloyds says this was an advised sale. This means Lloyds had to provide Mr and Mrs J not 
only with good  enough information about  the policy so they could make an informed  decision  
about it, it also had to ensure the policy was right or suitable  for them  based  on their needs  
and circumstances  at the time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
did Lloyds make it clear  to Mr and Mrs J that they had a choice about  PPI?
Mr and Mrs J say the policies were sold during a meeting between themselves and Lloyds. 
Lloyds says the PPI would  have  been  added because Mr and Mrs J chose to take out the 
PPI.
The only evidence I have  from the sale is what Lloyds and Mr and Mrs J have told us.  
The first sale took place 32 years ago. But it seems  more likely  Lloyds gave  Mr and Mrs J 
the opportunity  to take out the policy or decline it as part of their mortgage  application,  and 
that they chose  to take it out, but have simply forgotten  in the years  that have now elapsed. I 
say this because  this service has no evidence of Lloyds  systemically telling consumers they 
had to have PPI at this time and Mr and Mrs J could have cancelled  the PPI at any time, but 
they kept it for until they redeemed their mortgage 14 years  later.  And had they chosen not 
to purchase PPI in 1989 and in 1990, or had it been  added to their account without either  
their knowledge  or consent, I would have expected them to query or challenge this shortly 
afterwards. I say because  I think its likely  that either the PPI cost was shown  separately  on 
their statements or it made  their monthly  repayments higher than the monthly cost of the 
advance they would  have seen in their loan offer. 
Ref: DRN04280842So, I think it is more likely  than not Lloyds presented the PPI to Mr and Mrs J as optional and 
they chose to take it out. 
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs J properly advised 
and informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs J lost out?
I dont know what Lloyds  said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs J in 1989  
and again in 1990. I also dont know what information Mr and Mrs J were given about PPI. I 
dont know whether the policys benefits were explained to them  or if they were told about 
the significant exclusions and limitations  of cover. I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs J agreed to 
take the cover out knowing very little about  it, but I dont know if they received everything  
they needed to know to allow them to make an informed decision.
So, I accept its possible that things did not happen as they should have done  when Lloyds  
recommended to Mr and Mrs J that they take out PPI. I accept Mr and Mrs J may not have 
been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs J have lost out as a result. I 
say this because, given  Mr and Mrs Js circumstances and needs at the time of each sale, I 
think the policy cover was suitable for them. And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs J would 
have acted differently  and not gone  ahead with the cover  if Lloyds  had provided  better  
information. My reasons  are as follows:
Mr J was eligible for the cover and all its benefits.
Mr J was employed and in good health at the time, so it doesnt appear he would 
have been affected  by any of the key exclusions/limitations  of the cover such as 
existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms. 
The mortgage provided for their home.  Mr J says he had generous  sick pay benefits 
he could have used.  Ive thought carefully about this, but its very unusual  for an 
employer to provide  12 months  full sick pay, so Id need  to see something to show 
this is what Mr J was entitled to. Weve asked Mr J to provide some more  information 
about his sick pay, but Mr J hasnt been able to give us anything more.  Which isnt 
surprising given  how long ago this all happened.
I think its likely Mr J was entitled to some  sick pay. But in my experience  and 
without any evidence to show  otherwise   I think its unlikely  he would have received 
the level of sick pay hes told us he was entitled  to. The policies would  have paid out 
within 60 days in addition  to any sick pay or redundancy pay and for up to 12 months 
for each  claim. So, I think Mr and Mrs J had a need for their cover  and that it would 
have been useful to them if Mr J had been  unable to work.  It could have  helped  them  
financially at what would  be a difficult time  it could  have  helped them protect  their 
home.
Ref: DRN04280843I dont know how the cost of the PPI was presented  to Mr and Mrs J, but I find it 
unlikely they would have agreed  to something  without having some  understanding of 
the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have  declined  it solely on the basis  of its 
cost had it been made clearer to them. Ive already said they had a need for it, and it 
appears to have been affordable. And as they were paying for the PPI monthly, they 
could cancel it without  further  cost if at any stage their situation changed, or they no 
longer wanted  it.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the PPI was sold and       
Mr and Mrs J may not have been treated  fairly and reasonably by Lloyds in its dealings with 
them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because for the reasons Ive detailed above, I think 
Mr and Mrs J chose to take out the PPI and they would have been  in the same position if 
Lloyds had done more and properly  advised  and informed them - I think  they would have still 
taken it out. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs J. But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J 
because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs J about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell    
Mr and Mrs J, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that is fair in this case.
Its always difficult to decide  a complaint on very little information. But Ive thought very 
carefully about what Mr and Mrs J have said and what  I know  of Lloyds sales processes. 
And I dont  think  on balance  I can fairly  and reasonably uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2021.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0428084