K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Wesleyan Financial  Services Ltd mis-sold  him four income protection 
policies. 
background
In 1992, Mr B took out two income protection policies on the advice  of Wesleyan. The 
policies had staggered waiting periods, so that benefit would coincide with Mr Bs sick pay 
arrangements. Ill call them Policy  A and Policy B. Both policies were underwritten  by the 
same insurer. 
In 1998, Mr B took out a third income  protection policy (that Ill call Policy C). Then in 2000, 
he took out a fourth income protection  policy (that Ill call Policy  D). Policies  C and D were  
also underwritten by the same insurer as Policies A and B.  
In 2013, Mr B stopped work for six months because of illness. He contacted  the insurer to 
make a claim. The insurer told him the claim wasnt covered because of his employers sick 
pay arrangements. In 2014,  Mr B complained to Wesleyan about  the sale of the polices.  
Wesleyan issued a final response in 2014.  However,  it only addressed  the sale of Policies C 
and D. It thought these  two policies had been suitable for Mr B. 
Mr B realised that when  hed contacted  the insurer to make  a claim, he hadnt asked it to 
take into account his self-employed earnings  (as he didnt have sick pay for this). He 
therefore contacted the insurer again  to make  a claim. However,  he was told the claim  
wasnt covered because it was for an HIV-related illness, which  was excluded from cover 
under all the policies. 
In 2018, Mr B complained again  to Wesleyan. He said the HIV exclusion hadnt  been 
brought to his attention,  and if it had been, he wouldnt have taken out the policies. He again 
complained about the sale of the policies as he thought his employers sick pay 
arrangements meant he didnt need them. 
Wesleyan issued a new final response  in 2018. It said it thought  Policies A and B had been 
suitable for Mr B. It also said the information  Mr B had been given when the policies were 
sold would  have made him aware of the HIV exclusion. Mr B remained unhappy, and so he 
brought a complaint to this service. 
We advised Mr B that his concerns about  the sale of Policies C and D fell outside of our 
jurisdiction, as Mr B hadnt  brought his complaint about those policies here in time.  We were 
therefore only able to consider the sale of Policies  A and B, and his concerns about the HIV 
exclusion. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  Mr B had been 
given sufficient information to make  him aware  of the HIV exclusion when the policies were 
sold. She also thought  Policies A and B complemented his sick pay arrangements,  so she 
didnt find that these policies were unsuitable for him. 
Mr B has requested an ombudsmans decision, so the matter  has been passed  to me.  
Ref: DRN09906582my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In this decision, Ive considered Mr Bs complaint that the HIV exclusion wasnt  brought to his 
attention. Ive also considered the suitability of Policies A and B only.  
exclusion
 
Wesleyan provided  advice to Mr B when it sold him the policies.  It was therefore required to 
make sure the policies  were suitable for him, given  his circumstances.  It also needed to give 
him sufficient information about the cover  so that he could make  an informed decision as to 
whether to take it out. Wesleyan didnt  need to bring every policy term and exclusion to Mr 
Bs attention. However, it was obliged to tell him about any unusual terms or exclusions. 
Mr Bs policies  were all taken out with the same insurer. That insurers policy  terms explain 
that no benefit is payable where  the disability arises  from AIDS or infection by HIV.
Ive checked the policy  terms and conditions  that were in place around the same  time for 
some other insurers, and they all include a similar exclusion. Im therefore satisfied that it 
wasnt an unusual exclusion at the time.  That means Wesleyan didnt need to specifically 
bring this exclusion  to Mr Bs attention.
Although Wesleyan wasnt obliged to tell Mr B about this exclusion, it was included  in the 
policy terms. I also note that Wesleyan did specifically bring the exclusion to Mr Bs attention  
when Policy D was sold in 2000. The adviser sent Mr B a letter  outlining  the reasons for his 
recommendations. This letter  included some key points about the income  protection  cover.  
One of those points  said the policy only had two exclusions  deliberately  failing to obtain or 
follow medical advice;  and AIDS or infection by HIV. It said the latter  wouldnt apply if it 
results from carrying  out normal duties as a medical  practitioner in the UK or as a result of a 
blood transfusion. 
Even though  Mr B was made aware of this exclusion, it seems this didnt affect  his decision 
to take out the cover  at this time.  It therefore seems unlikely this would have  affected  his 
decision to take out the earlier policies, even if he had been  aware  of the exclusion.  Though  
as Ive said, as it wasnt  an unusual term, Wesleyan wasnt obliged  to specifically make Mr B 
aware of it. 
suitability of Policies A and B
In 1992, Mr Bs existing  income protection cover had ended.  It was recorded he wanted  the 
maximum cover available.  I note his employer would pay him full sick pay for six months,  
followed by half sick pay for the next six months. I understand he didnt have any self-
employed earnings at this time.  
The adviser therefore recommended he take out two policies, one that paid benefit after six 
months, and the other paid benefit after 12 months. They  were  set up to provide the 
maximum available benefit  based on his salary  at the time. 
I think these policies were  suitable - they provided  Mr B with the cover he wanted,  and they 
were arranged to coincide  with his employers sick pay arrangements. 
Ref: DRN09906583Im therefore  satisfied these policies werent  mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0990658