K820x#11complaint
Mr and Ms M say Cumberland Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out in connection with a 
mortgage in January 1998. Mr and Ms M applied for the PPI at a meeting in one of 
Cumberlands branches.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mr and Ms M and to Cumberland on 12 December  2014. I summarise my findings:
 I considered that the relevant issues to take into account were those set out in the 
technical note on our website about  our approach  to PPI complaints.
 The mortgage application form included equally  prominent  options to accept or decline 
PPI. Mr and Ms M ticked the box indicating that they wished to take PPI and signed  
specifically to confirm that wish. On the same  day, they completed a separate 
application for the PPI. I thought Cumberland had made Mr and Ms M aware that the 
PPI was optional and theyd chosen  to take it although  I could understand why they 
may no longer remember this given the time that has elapsed.
 I was satisfied  that Cumberland recommended the PPI to Mr and Ms M, but it didnt 
look as if it was unsuitable  for them,  based  on what  Id seen. The policy  was in Mr Ms 
sole name. Mr and Ms M say that Mr M was a contractor when he applied for the policy 
and wouldnt  have  been  able to make  a claim for unemployment for the first two years.
 It was true that the circumstances  in which an unemployment claim could be made at 
the end of a fixed-term contract were  limited. But when  Mr and Ms M brought their 
complaint to us, they said that Mr M was made  a permanent member of staff between  
applying for the PPI and the date when it started. Mr and Ms Ms representative had, 
more recently, suggested that the change  in Mr Ms employment situation happened 
two months after the policy  started. But based on what  Id seen so far, I thought it more 
likely, on balance, that the change took place when Mr and Ms M originally  said it did. 
So I thought it unlikely that Mr M would have been caught by the restrictive conditions 
on claiming at the end of a fixed-term contract.
Ref: DRN09678182 Even  if Mr and Ms M had decided not to take the PPI because  Mr M was a contractor 
when they originally discussed  it, I thought it would be unfair  to require Cumberland to 
refund any premiums. Id explained  that I thought Mr and Ms M chose  to take the policy 
even though they realised it was optional. So they appeared to have  been  interested in 
this type of cover. I thought it likely  that if Cumberlands  representative had told 
Mr and Ms M that the policy was unsuitable due to Mr Ms employment situation,  theyd  
have applied  for the policy when  his employment situation changed,  especially given 
that this appears  to have been  soon  after the original discussion. I noted that 
Mr and Ms M mentioned that when Mr M was made a permanent  member of staff,  they 
did, in any event, phone Cumberland to tell them.
 I didnt know if Mr and Ms M were told the cost of the PPI during the meeting, but it was 
set out on the quotation  which was produced on the day they applied  for the mortgage  
and the policy. So I thought  Mr and Ms M would have  known how much they needed  to 
pay for the PPI each month  and found this acceptable. The policy seemed to have 
been affordable.
 It was possible some of the information  Cumberland gave Mr and Ms M about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should  have been.  But Id concluded it was likely that Mr M would 
have been able to make  an unemployment  claim from the outset. Mr and Ms M werent  
affected by any other of the exclusions or limitations. So I thought it unlikely theyd 
have made a different decision if better  information  had been provided. On balance, 
taking into account their circumstances when the policy  started, I thought theyd  still 
have taken out the policy.
 Id taken  into account Mr and Ms Ms comments, including what theyd said about 
having felt pressured  into taking the PPI. But these points didnt change my conclusion.
 Finally, I noted that Cumberland previously indicated that they were prepared  to offer a 
refund of the first fifteen  months premiums to Mr and Ms M, in recognition  of the fact 
that they wouldnt have been able to make an unemployment claim under the policy for 
that period. But theyd explained  that this was before it came to light that Mr M was no 
longer a contractor  when the policy started. In view of my findings above,  I thought  it 
would be inappropriate  for me to require Cumberland  to repeat their offer.
further submissions
Neither Mr and Ms M nor Cumberland  have provided any further comments, and the time for 
doing so has now expired.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision about  whether the PPI was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN09678183commission on the policy
Since I issued my provisional  decision, one of our adjudicators has told Mr and Ms M that 
Cumberland will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to them  because:
 Cumberland  got a high level of commission  and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should  have told Mr and Ms M about that. Because  Cumberland didnt  
tell Mr and Ms M, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Cumberland has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium   and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business must  do
Cumberland has to pay back  to Mr and Ms M any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  It should  also pay back to Mr and Ms M any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
Cumberland should  pay back  to Mr and Ms M the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of the PPI. Cumberland 
should also pay Mr and Ms M 8% simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Ms M can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Cumberland Building Society does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Ms M.
But Cumberland Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Ms M any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 August 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0967818