K821x#15complaint
Mr S complained that Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited (trading as 
Torch Wealth Management) advised him to transfer to a Self-Invested  Personal  Pension 
(SIPP) and make high risk investments that were unsuitable.
background
Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited  (EFS) recommended that Mr S should transfer to 
a SIPP  in 2015 so that he could access his tax-free  cash, it was recorded he needed  this for 
home improvements. He was 55 years old and employed part-time.  He intended to retire at 
65. He had no previous investment experience.  His attitude to risk was assessed as seven 
on a scale of one to ten and classed as highest medium.  
EFS recommended that 60% should  be invested  in a portfolio of different  funds,  and that 
40% should be invested in an Affinity bond.  
After taking tax-free cash, I understand Mr S contacted the business and said that he wanted 
to access the balance and so the 60% investment  in the portfolio didnt take place.
Mr Ss representative complained in 2018. It stated  that the advice to invest  in high risk, 
speculative investments had been  unsuitable.  EFS rejected the complaint  and it was referred  
to this service.
An adjudicator investigated the complaint  and said it should be upheld. He felt that the 
advice to transfer had been suitable,  but that the advice  to invest 40% in the Affinity bond 
had been unsuitable. He understood  that it was an unlisted corporate bond,  and that most of 
the coupon was payable at maturity.  He said that it was inappropriate for such a large  
proportion of the portfolio to be invested  in a single investment  of this sort. 
EFS didnt  accept the adjudicators view.  It maintained that the advice had been suitable. It 
pointed out that the bond  was due to mature shortly, and that a full return  was expected.  
EFS also commented on the proposed  redress and said that it would not be fair to use the 
full fund as Mr S had withdrawn funds before investment. The adjudicator  responded to 
explain that the methodology made provision for this, as all withdrawals are deducted from 
the calculation  from the date of withdrawal. 
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was referred to me for a final decision.
After the adjudicators view and EFSs  response, the adjudicator established with the SIPP  
provider that the bond  issuer had entered into administration. So I understand that Mr S may 
not receive any return on his investment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It was recorded  at the time of sale that Mr S required tax free cash to fund home 
improvements and this hasnt been  disputed. At the time of advice  Mr Ss funds were  
invested in a Section 32 policy with a Guaranteed Minimum Pension that wasnt  supported 
Ref: DRN00151692by the fund. So Mr Ss requirement for tax free cash was unlikely  to be met by the Section 
32. I understand that the transfer value was enhanced. And looking at Mr Ss circumstances 
and whats happened  since the transfer,  I think Mr S was likely  set on this course  of action.
Because of this I dont think the transfer to the SIPP, which  released the fund from the 
restrictions of the Section  32 and allowed tax free cash  to be taken, was unsuitable.  And 
Mr Ss actions  following  the transfer confirm that his intention was to take tax free cash and 
hes since made further cash withdrawals, which wouldnt  have been  possible in the Section 
32.
So because the transfer met a specific need and Mr S has since  had the need to make large 
withdrawals from the fund, in this instance  I dont think a more  detailed review of the 
transfers viability is required.
EFS also gave Mr S advice about  what to invest in within the SIPP.  EFS classified Mr Ss 
attitude to risk as seven  out of ten or highest medium.
Looking at the answers Mr S gave during the risk profiling, I dont think this was 
unreasonable. However, EFS also needed  to give thought to Mr Ss circumstances at the 
time of advice. Mr S had ten years  until his desired retirement age, and he appears to have 
had no other  pension provision, although  his wife was recorded as having a pension due 
from her employment. Mr S had an outstanding mortgage of £90,000  and was recorded as 
having no previous investment experience. So based on the information recorded at the time 
I think its clear  that Mr Ss capacity for loss was limited  and I think EFSs recommendations 
ought to have reflected this. 
EFS recommended that 60% of the transferred sum be invested in a portfolio of funds.  It 
appears that this investment wasnt made as Mr S withdrew the balance  before or very soon 
after the transfer. So I dont think it is necessary to discuss that recommendation in more 
detail.
Turning to the Affinity Bond, the information  provided at the time was that:
40% of your pension  will be invested  in a property bond managed by Affinity  Commercial 
LLP. This property bond invests directly into commercial property in Europe and the United 
Kingdom. The bond has a 5 year term and returns an equivalent  of 7% a year. 2% each year 
is returned to your pension on the bond anniversary, the balance of 5% is rolled up and paid 
on the fifth anniversary  along with the initial amount invested. As this is an investment made 
directly into property it does not participate  in the Financial  Services Compensation 
Scheme.
However, as our adjudicator explained in his view, this information  doesnt seem to be 
completely accurate. In fact, it appears it was a corporate bond issued by a special purpose 
vehicle to invest in property development overseas. Therefore it wont have been secured to 
any assets of that company and is unlisted.  As stated  at the time of advice, there is no 
protection offered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Since the investment was made, the investment has been illiquid up until the point of 
maturity, so Mr S could not withdraw funds until the five year term was up. But it has 
subsequently turned out that the bond  issuer has been placed into administration. And due 
to the structure  of this investment, I understand all of Mr Ss funds invested in the bond may 
have been lost.
Ref: DRN00151693Considering Mr Ss circumstances I dont  think an investment with such inherent risks was 
suitable for him and certainly not at the proportion that EFS recommended.  
EFS has commented that this appears  to be a case of spend  now,  complain later and its 
said that, if the bond hadnt been in place, Mr S wouldve spent the money already. Whether 
this is the case or not, EFS had a duty to give suitable advice. I dont think  it can reasonably  
be said that such a large  proportion  of funds invested in an unsecured bond in a single asset  
class was suitable for a person whose recorded financial position at the time of advice 
showed little other provision in retirement.
For the reasons  explained earlier, this decision has concentrated on the recommendation to 
invest in the Affinity  Bond. But the original complaint was about the advice as a whole and I 
dont think the portfolio  of funds recommended can be said to have offset the risk attached to 
the Affinity Bond. And I dont think the investment advice as a whole was suitable for Mr S. 
So the redress methodology will look at all the funds  invested. However, if Mr S withdrew the 
funds before investment, in practice the redress will essentially be focusing on the Affinity  
Bond.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Ss circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
what should  EFS do?
To compensate Mr S fairly,  EFS must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ss investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
EFS should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, EFS should pay into Mr Ss pension plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should  allow  for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If EFS is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ss pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ss actual or expected 
Ref: DRN00151694marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr S £300 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If EFS deducts income tax from the interest 
it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. EFS should  give Mr S a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual transfer  value of the SIPP  at the end date.
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment if the Affinity  investment is illiquid. 
So, the value  of the Affinity investment should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. EFS should take ownership  of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial  
value acceptable  to the pension provider. This amount  should  be deducted from the 
compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If EFS is unable to purchase the Affinity investment, its value should  be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. EFS may require  that Mr S provides an undertaking to pay 
EFS any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. EFS will need to meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the SIPP would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return in line 
with the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when  it was actually paid in. 
Ref: DRN00151695Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  
from that point on. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called an income  index, the mix and diversification provided  within  the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ss circumstances  and risk attitude.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Economic  Financial Solutions IFA Limited  should  
pay the amount  calculated as set out above.
Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited  should provide details of its calculation  to Mr S in 
a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0015169