K820x#14the complaint
Mrs L complains  that, in 1999, National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold  her a 
package bank account (PBA). The PBA was called Advantage Gold and NatWest charged  
Mrs L a monthly fee. Mrs L says she was told she had to have a PBA to have an overdraft. 
She also says that she didnt need the other  benefits  of the accounts as she already had 
these through  work.
Mrs L has also complained about what happened  after the account was closed in 2006. This 
was when, a year later in 2007, a second  PBA was set up on her other account (which 
ended 8313). She thinks NatWest should  have  merged the accounts.   
Im not looking here at how that 2007 PBA, on account ending  8313, was set up. Thats  a 
different case.  Im just looking at account  ending 8752, in particular how the PBA was sold in 
1999.
what happened
Mrs L opened a fee-free current account in 1987.  In 1999, the account was changed into a 
PBA.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the evidence and thought the complaint shouldnt  be 
upheld. Mrs L didnt  agree, and so the matter  has been  passed  to me to make a decision.
what Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  On our website, weve set out our 
approach to the sale of packaged  bank accounts.  Ive kept that approach in mind  when 
considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs L has said that she was told she had to have a PBA to get an overdraft. This was all a 
very long time ago, and I think its likely shes forgotten exactly what  happened in 1999  
when the PBA started. And, so many years later, I cant know  what she was told, and 
what led to the start of the PBA; but its unlikely to be that she thought  she wouldnt 
otherwise have got an overdraft. I say this because  NatWest  has given us evidence  of 
successful overdraft applications over the years, when the account was fee-free. NatWest  
still gave fee-free after 1999 to its customers.  
Ive looked at whether its likely Mrs L wouldnt  have  taken the PBA in 1999, if shed had 
better information about it. Its hard to know,  so many years  later,  what information NatWest 
did give Mrs L, though  I dont have evidence that NatWest didnt properly explain the 
benefits. Also, at the time,  the PBA offered a range of benefits, including  travel insurance, 
credit interest, preferential overdraft rates and purchase protection.  And Ive not seen 
anything to say that these  wouldnt  have  been useful to Mrs L. So I dont think  more 
information is likely to have made  a difference  to whether she took the PBA.  
Overall, I cant fairly say the PBA was mis-sold in 1999.
my final decision
Ref: DRN03555342For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0355534