K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr G and Miss R say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. The policy initially 
covered both Mr G and Miss R against  involuntary unemployment only. The cover was split 
equally between them. This meant  that if either  Mr G or Miss R lost their job they would 
receive 50% of the monthly benefit.  In September 2004 it was changed to cover only Mr G 
so if he lost his job the policy would pay out 100% of the benefit.
background
Our adjudicator thought the PPI had been  mis-sold.  Santander disagreed  with the 
adjudicators findings,  so the complaint was passed  to me.
In May 2019  I issued  my provisional findings on this complaint and invited both parties  to 
comment and send  me any additional evidence  they wanted me to think  about.  A copy  of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was not intending  to uphold this complaint,  my main  
reasons were:
I thought it most likely Santander  made  Mr G and Miss R aware  the policy was 
optional and they chose to buy it.
I thought the cover  was right for them. And I didnt think Mr G and Miss R wouldve  
changed their mind and not bought the policy if Santander had given them  all the 
clear information it shouldve.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Neither Santander nor Mr G and Miss R have replied with any new evidence  or points for me 
to consider. Therefore I see no reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional  
decision in May 2019, namely that I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against    
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2019.
Ref: DRN07826072Steve Thomas
ombudsman
copy of my provisional findings
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr G and Miss R say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. The policy initially 
covered both Mr G and Miss R against  involuntary unemployment only. The cover was split 
equally between them. This meant  that if either  Mr G or Miss R lost their job they would 
receive 50% of the monthly benefit.  In September 2004 it was changed to cover only Mr G 
so if he lost his job the policy would pay out 100% of the benefit.
Ref: DRN07826073background
Our adjudicator thought the PPI had been  mis-sold.  Santander disagreed  with the 
adjudicators findings,  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Where there is limited information, as in this case,  I will make  my decision based  on whats 
more likely to have  happened,  taking  into account  the evidence available,  what   both parties 
have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Im intending  to find the policy  wasnt  mis-sold because:
There is very little paperwork from the time of the sale which  is not surprising as the sale 
took place so long ago. Mr G and Miss R say they were  pressured into taking out the policy  
during a meeting at a branch.
Santander has told us the policy was sold to them during a telephone call and that Mr G and 
Miss R would not have  been pressured into taking out the policy.
Ive thought about this and I note that Mr G and Miss R had originally taken out the mortgage 
in 2001 without PPI. So however the policy  was sold I think they would have been aware 
they could have a mortgage without PPI.  
The policy was sold to them in 2004  when they took a further advance on the mortgage. 
Santander has said that it advised Mr G and Miss R to take out the policy. So I think it is 
likely the adviser told them that they should  take out the policy, but that is very different to 
telling that they had to take it out.
The policy insurers records show that Mr G contacted the insurer himself in September 
2004 to ask for the policy to be amended to cover  only himself. This suggests to me that    
Mr G and Miss R discussed the cover  the policy provided them with and chose to amend it.    
If they only took the policy because they felt pressured at the time of sale,  Id expect  them to 
have questioned whether  they still required it at an early stage rather than amend the cover. 
Taking everything into account  I think its most  likely Santander made it clear that Mr G and 
Miss R didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why they cant remember this after so many years.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr G and Miss R so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. 
For example Mr G and Miss R werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover.  So theyd  be able to make a claim if they needed to.
Ref: DRN07826074Mr G told us his employer  offered an enhanced redundancy  scheme meaning hed receive 
18 months pay if he lost his job. Our adjudicator  thought the policy  was unsuitable  because  
of this. The adjudicator asked Mr G for more details of his employers  redundancy scheme 
but we have not received  any.
I dont find it surprising if Mr G hasnt got details of his redundancy scheme from 2004. But 
even if Mr Gs employer did have such a scheme,  I dont think it meant  the PPI wasnt  right 
for him. Mr G and Miss R were extending their mortgage and taking on a new financial 
commitment. Even if Mr G were  made  redundant and received 18 months pay, itd still mean 
their income would reduce significantly with only Miss Rs salary. And the redundancy 
payment would be needed  to not only maintain the monthly mortgage  payments but also 
other living costs and bills.
The PPI would have  paid out a monthly  benefit  in addition to any redundancy payment and 
for up to 12 months. So I still think Mr G and Miss R would  have  found  the policy useful if   
Mr G had lost his job.
Mr G and Miss R have  told us they had savings they could have relied on. But they had 
chosen to borrow  more on their mortgage  rather than use their savings to have a smaller  
mortgage. So it looks like they wanted  to keep  their savings intact. And the PPI policy would 
have meant  they didnt  have to use their savings  to meet the monthly mortgage repayments.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr G and Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out and later contacted the insurer to amend  
the policy - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have 
been useful for them  if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put them off taking out the cover.  
In summary,  I think its most likely  Santander made  Mr G and Miss R aware the policy  was 
optional and they chose to buy it. I think the cover was right for them. And I dont think         
Mr G and Miss R wouldve changed their mind and not bought the policy  if Santander had 
given them all the clear  information it shouldve.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr G and Miss R paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr G and Miss Rs PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Santander has been  working  this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr G and Miss Rs commission  was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about 
the commission  so I dont think Santander treated them unfairly.  This means  it doesnt  
need to pay Mr G or Miss R back  any of the commission  they paid for the PPI. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional 
decision, Im not intending to uphold Mr G and Miss Rs complaint. 
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN07826075
Ref: DRN0782607