K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that AIB Group  (UK) Plcs  offer of compensation for his upheld payment 
protection insurance (PPI) mis-sale complaint is unfair  he wants a full refund of the 
premiums he paid for the policy.
background
Briefly:
In 1999 Mr H took out PPI at the same time as taking out a loan  account  ending 874. The 
policy in question was a single premium policy, so its cost was added to the loan upfront 
where it attracted  interest over the term.
Mr H complained to AIB about the sale of his PPI and AIB upheld it. They said the 
cancellation terms of the policy werent appropriate for Mr H because he refinanced  his loan 
early and he lost out as a result. AIB offered to compensate Mr H  it offered  the difference  
between what he paid for his policy and what he wouldve  paid for a more suitable regular 
premium policy.  This is what is commonly referred to as alternative redress.
Mr H thinks AIBs offer is unfair   he wants a full refund of premiums.
The adjudicator didnt recommend Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. In summary  they 
thought AIBs offer was fair because the only reason PPI wasnt appropriate for Mr H was 
because of the cancellation  terms  there  was no other reason it was mis-sold.  And in these 
circumstances, its fair for a business to assume that a regular premium policy wouldve 
been appropriate and so compensate for the difference in cost between the two.
Mr H disagrees   so the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to PPI 
complaints on our website  and Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding  
Mr Hs complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint  Mr H  I know this isnt the answer he was hoping for 
 but I agree  with the adjudicator here. I think AIBs offer of compensation is fair in the 
circumstances  and theres not much more I feel I can usefully add to what Mr H has 
already been told.
AIB has already agreed that the single premium PPI policy Mr H bought to protect his loan 
wasnt right for him. This is because the cancellation  terms of the policy didnt provide 
flexibility if Mr H decided to repay the loan early,  which he in fact did  in short,  the policy  
didnt provide a pro-rata refund. AIB said that, in light of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, 
there was no other reason  why PPI was mis-sold. So, it offered to compensate  Mr H by 
putting him in the position as if hed taken out a more appropriate regular premium policy  it 
offered to pay him the difference  between  what he actually  paid with what he wouldve paid 
for a regular premium  policy.
Ref: DRN06143972I think what AIB has done  here is fair - so I wont be instructing it to do anything  more. I say 
this because, Ive looked  at Mr Hs circumstances at the time, and theres  nothing  else which 
persuades me that PPI was inappropriate for him. 
Mr H has said that he remembers he had an income protection policy at the time, which 
wouldve replaced his income in the event he couldnt work because  of accident or sickness  
 so he says PPI wasnt necessary.
But importantly here AIB didnt recommend PPI to Mr H, so it didnt have to ensure it was 
right or suitable for him by assessing his needs  and circumstances.  It did nevertheless  have 
to provide him with enough clear  and timely information about  the policy to allow Mr H to 
make that decision for himself. And in terms of the cost and benefit proposition of the policy, 
I think this was made clear. This means I think Mr H was in a position  to weigh up the 
usefulness of the PPI alongside any existing means he had at the time. 
Mr H has said he doesnt understand why a regular premium policy is being used for 
comparison purposes when AIB said that it didnt  offer this type of policy  at the time of the 
sale. And this is a good question. But as the adjudicator explained, it is the cancellation  
rights of the single premium policy and the way that the policy  was funded,  which made  it 
wrong for Mr H  nothing  else. So, to correct the unfairness or wrong doing, AIB has 
assumed that Mr Hs policy behaved more  like a regular  premium policy  where the 
cancellation rights  and funding wouldnt have been  a problem for him (this type of policy  
wouldve been funded monthly  from a bank account and it couldve been cancelled  without 
financial penalty at any time during the loan term.) Its then paid him the difference between 
what that wouldve  cost with what he actually paid. As the adjudicator  also pointed out, the 
rules set out by the regulator The Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA)  allow  AIB to do so. 
And taking  everything  into account  I think its fair. 
Mr H has asked for the pattern of lending by AIB to be looked  at again by the ombudsman   
he doesnt think all of the information hes provided  has been taken into account. But as I 
said above, AIB has already  upheld Mr Hs PPI mis-sale complaint  so I dont need to 
consider this. The matter  at hand and what this decision is concerned  with, is whether what 
AIB has done  to put things right is fair. And as Ive set out, taking everything into account, I 
think that it is.
So overall and in the individual  circumstances of this complaint, I think AIBs offer of 
compensation is a fair way to settle matters. And on the basis that AIB has already  made 
payment to Mr H, theres nothing more AIB needs to do.
my final decision
Ive decided the offer of compensation from AIB Group (UK) Plc is fair in all the 
circumstances, so I dont  uphold this complaint.
AIB Group (UK) Plc should  make  payment to Mr H - if it hasnt already done  so. I make no 
other award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020.
Ref: DRN06143973Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0614397