K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited  lent to him irresponsibly and that it has treated 
him unfairly  in a number of other ways. 
background
Mr K was given a loan of £300 by Loans2Go in November 2018.   This was due to be repaid 
in 78 weekly instalments of around £15. The total amount payable,  including  interest, was 
just over £1,223.  
Mr K has complained that Loans2Go didnt carry out proper checks before  it gave  him the 
loan. And had it done so, Mr K says it would have realised that he was already in debt and 
that the loan wasnt affordable. Mr K has also complained that he mistakenly chose a weekly  
rather than monthly repayment  plan, but when he tried to change it, Loans2Go didnt help 
him and instead  very quickly defaulted his account.  Mr K has also complained that the 
interest charged on his loan was too high and that Loans2Go changed the contract  in order  
to make the loan term longer and so avoid the regulatory cost cap.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Ks complaint. He thought Loans2Go  had defaulted 
Mr Ks account unfairly and so he asked it to remove the default from Mr Ks credit file. 
Loans2Go agreed to do this. So, as this aspect of Mr Ks complaint has been resolved,  I do 
not need to address the default issue any further in my decision.
However, the adjudicator didnt think Loans2Go had been wrong to provide  Mr K with the 
loan and he didnt  think Loans2Go acted unfairly towards Mr K in relation to his other  
complaint points. Mr K didnt agree  with the adjudicators  assessment,  and so the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a final decision about the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ks complaint.
I think there are several overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats  
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Loans2Go complete reasonable and proportionate  checks  to satisfy  itself that Mr K 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable  way? If so, did it make a fair lending  
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Loans2Go act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Loans2Go was required to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didn't lend to Mr K 
irresponsibly. This means that it had to carry out reasonable  and proportionate checks  to 
satisfy itself that he could  repay the loan in a sustainable way. The lender was required to 
carry out a borrower  focussed assessment - sometimes  referred to as an affordability  
assessment or affordability  check. 
Ref: DRN03398052Checks had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. These  
checks could consider a number  of different things, such as the loan amount, the repayment  
amounts and Mr Ks income and expenditure. But there was no set list of checks  Loans2Go  
had to do.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely 
to be greater  and the customer is required to make payments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered  all the evidence, arguments  and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mr K.
Loans2Go carried out some checks before it lent to Mr K. This included asking Mr K for 
information about his income  and expenditure and carrying out some credit checks. 
Loans2Go says the loan was affordable  for him. 
Ive seen a summary  of the information gathered  by Loans2Go at the time, including Mr Ks 
credit report.  Ive carefully considered  whether the information that Loans2Go  gathered at the 
time should reasonably have triggered further checks. On balance, I dont think that it did.
The report  that Loans2Go acquired showed that Mr K had a total balance on all his accounts 
of around £8,240. About £7,000 of this was in relation  to a higher purchase  agreement.  The 
report showed that Mr K had 2 active short-term loans and some  other  outstanding credit  
including a credit  card with a balance of £251 on a card with a limit of £250.  Mr K had 
previously had a number of loan accounts  that had been settled in 2016 and 2017. There  
was some adverse  information on Mr Ks credit  report. But given the type of lending, I think a 
lender would reasonably expect to see some  adverse information on a consumers credit 
history.  Overall, I think  it would  have  been  fair for Loans2Go to have considered  that Mr Ks 
credit report  generally showed  a positive payment history.  
Taking things as a whole,  I also think it would have been reasonable for Loans2Go to 
consider that the monthly repayments on its loan were affordable for Mr K  taking into 
account the amount he had to pay each  month  towards his existing creditors, and what  hed 
declared as his income and general living expenses. 
Overall, I think the checks that Loans2Go  carried out before lending to Mr K were  
reasonable and proportionate. I dont think more in-depth checks   such  as requesting  bank 
statements  were  required. I think it was reasonable in the circumstances for Loans2Go to 
have relied on the information that Mr K provided and what  it found  in its checks. If Mr K was 
in a more difficult  financial position, this doesnt  appear to be something that he shared with 
Loans2Go at that time, or something that proportionate checks would have uncovered.  I 
dont think there was anything in the information  that Loans2Go gathered  at the time which  
should have caused the lender any additional  concerns about Mr Ks financial position when 
he applied  for the loan.  Or that ought  reasonably to have led the lender to conclude  that his 
loan application  should be declined. 
Ref: DRN03398053Has Loans2Go  treat Mr K unfairly in any other  way?
It seems  that when Mr K applied online for his loan,  it was set up for weekly  rather  than monthly 
repayments. Mr K told Loans2Go  that this was a mistake. He feels that Loans2Go didnt do 
enough to help him change the repayment  arrangements and that it acted unfairly  towards him.  
Ive listened to the recordings of calls that Loans2Go held with Mr K and Ive also considered  
everything that Loans2Go and Mr K have told us about this aspect of his complaint.  
Mr K told Loans2Go that he had intended to pay monthly, rather  than weekly for his loan. He 
was asked to make  the first weekly repayment  of around £15.00,  and was told that after this, 
monthly repayments could be set up. Mr K was told how much the monthly  repayments  
would be, but it seems  to me that he hadnt realised how much he would have to pay each 
month for his loan.  I think  its possible that Mr K thought he would pay around £15.00 each 
month for his loan,  rather than the monthly amount of around  £65.00.  
In the event, Mr K fell behind with his loan repayments with the result that arrears built up 
and Loans2Go  defaulted his account. As Ive explained, Loans2Go has accepted  that it 
shouldnt have defaulted the account when it did, and it has agreed to remove  the default 
from Mr Ks credit  file, so I dont  need to consider the default issue any further.
I think Mr K might  have misunderstood  the repayment arrangements  when he applied  for his 
loan online. I dont think Loans2Go  fully appreciated how stressful Mr K found the situation 
when he tried to move  from weekly to monthly repayments for his loan. But overall, I dont 
think Loans2Go acted  unreasonably or unfairly when it tried to set up a new monthly  
repayment arrangement  for Mr K. Im sorry that Mr K has found the situation difficult, but I 
cant say that Loans2Go  has acted unfairly  towards him in this regard. If the loan has not 
already been settled,  I would remind Loans2Go  of its obligation to continue treating Mr K 
sympathetically and positively and I would expect  Loans2Go to set up a repayment plan that 
is affordable for Mr K.
Mr K has also complained that the rate of interest  charged for his loan was far too high. He 
thinks that Loans2Go changed the loan contract in order to avoid the regulatory cost cap 
that applies to loans of 12 months  or less. Mr K says he would not have signed  an 
agreement with such high interest and that the loan was never  meant to be for a longer term.
The interest rate on Mr Ks loan was £205.2% and the APR was 1278.3%. The total charges 
for the £300 loan were just over £923.  
Ive thought about what Mr K has said about the cost and terms of this loan.  I think  there was 
a very large amount  of interest payable on this loan and I can appreciate that Mr K might 
now feel this was unfair.  But the loan did not fall under  the regulatory cost cap as the term 
was over 12 months. And the loan documents set out the terms and the amount of interest  
payable. Mr K had to actively engage in the loan application process,  and I think  its likely 
that he was aware  of the 18-month  loan term and the total amount of interest payable at the 
time. Loans2Go also referred to the 18-month  loan term in its welcome call. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Mr K was aware he was taking a very high cost loan 
over an 18-month period.  Mr K accepted these terms,  the payments appeared affordable in 
his circumstances  and I havent seen anything  which suggests that Loans2Go changed the 
contract in some way as Mr K has suggested.
Ref: DRN03398054Taking the evidence  as a whole, I cant fairly conclude  that Loans2Go was wrong to provide 
the loan to Mr K. And I dont find that Loans2Go  has acted unfairly  towards him in some 
other way.
Mr K has raised several different complaint points over the course of this matter,  and I 
acknowledge that he feels very strongly  about his complaint. If I have not referred to each 
point hes raised  its because I have focussed  on what  I consider to be the material  issues.  I 
am sorry that Mr K will be disappointed by my decision, but I would like to reassure him that I 
have read and carefully considered everything that both he and Loans2Go have told us and I 
have reviewed all the evidence presented. Having done so, I do not uphold  Mr Ks complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2021.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0339805