K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  declined  her pet 
insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
background
Ms P took out pet insurance for her dog on 30 August 2018. The insurer  was Red Sands. 
Her dog saw vets at her usual practice and a specialist vet for treatment from 31 August to 
mid September 2018, when sadly he had to be put to sleep. A claim was made for treatment 
for osteosarcoma  of the rib at the usual vet and for thoracic neoplasia treatment at the 
specialist vet.
Red Sands  declined the claim. It said Ms Ps dogs vet notes showed her dog had symptoms 
of the claim condition before the policy started.  The policy didnt cover pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Ms P complained to us, represented by her partner.  She didnt accept the claim was for a 
pre-existing condition. She wants Red Sands  to pay the claim or at least  the specialist vets 
costs.
Our investigator thought Red Sands had fairly declined the claim.
Ms P disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said:  
the vets submitted the claims and her usual vet practice had just given a list of 
treatments and prescriptions without  any narrative making it hard to show what  the 
treatments related to
her dog was seen by three different vets at her usual  practice  who all had different 
opinions about  what was causing him to cough  and have pain. They treated him for 
suspected kennel  cough and pancreatitis  which were totally unrelated  to the lump  
and tumour. They  thought the lump wasnt life threatening and the tumour  was only 
diagnosed at the specialist vet on the day her dog was put to sleep
she queried how Red Sands could say her dog had a pre-existing condition when the 
tumour wasnt diagnosed by her usual vet practice. She wouldnt have  considered 
any of the treatments if shed known he had a terminal tumour.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Red Sands fairly  and reasonably declined the claim, and I think  it 
did. Im sorry to disappoint Ms P but I dont uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy is clear it doesnt  cover a pre-existing condition or illness that first showed clinical 
signs before  the policy started or within  14 days of the policy start date. 
The policy defines  pre-existing  condition as any condition, symptom or sign of a condition or 
any illness, symptom or sign of an illness that existed before the policy  started or within the 
first 14 days  of the policy.
Ref: DRN06823892I dont think Ms P knew  her dog had a serious life threatening  tumour before the policy  
started. But theres clear vet evidence that the lump on his rib was part of the tumour and 
Ms P and the vet had seen  the lump and were concerned about it before the policy  started 
and/or within  the first 14 days of the policy.
Ive seen the full clinical  notes from Ms P's usual vet practice. The vet notes of 31 August 
2018 say:
Noticed lump 3 days  ago to his right ribcage, could have been there before, owner 
unsure.
Seems sore on it, cried  at owner when she touched  it. Flat lump approximately 6cm 
in diameter to the right ribcage on the point where  the elbow lies at rest. Solid and 
attached to ribcage, does not feel fatty.
Discussed further  options (monitor  vs FNA (fine needle aspiration) vs remove). 
Advise removal would be difficult here and would  be best to gain an understanding of 
what we are dealing  with first as may be deeper than just the ribcage. 
In summary,  the vet notes show Ms Ps dog was booked in for a FNA but in the meantime 
the vet saw him as hed started  coughing.  On 11 September the vet mentioned  the 
possibility of pancreatitis. Tests were  done  and on the 18 September  the results  showed a 
likely tumour. The dog was referred  to a specialist vet.
The specialist vets report says:
the dog was seen  here as an emergency  today for a 2-3 week  history of progressive  
respiratory signs including coughing,  panting then dyspnoea.   on arrival 
here.there was a firm mass palpable on the thoracic wall (the) CT (scan)  
revealed a huge  and aggressive mass lesion originating from the fifth rib which  
occupied a large amount of the thoracic  cavity  These imaging findings  are 
indicative of an aggressive neoplasia which is likely to have originated from a rib (e.g 
osteosarcoma).
The vets evidence shows the tumour was probably  related to the lump seen on the dogs rib 
that the vet saw on 31 August (the day after the policy was taken  out). The vet notes say 
Ms P had seen the lump  three days before, so before the policy was taken out. The usual 
vet practices claim gives the dates  of treatment for the claim condition  as between 
31 August to 18 September 2018. On the vet evidence I think  Red Sands can fairly say the 
claim condition  was a pre-existing condition, not covered  by the policy.
The vet notes and specialist vets report also show that all of Ms P's dogs symptoms were  
more likely than not related  to the tumour. Ive seen no evidence that Ms Ps dogs cough or 
possible pancreatic symptoms were unrelated to the tumour.  If Ms P can get evidence from 
the vet that some of the treatment during 31 August  to 18 September was unrelated to the 
tumour symptoms then she may wish to make a separate claim about those matters  for 
Red Sands  to consider.
On the evidence I have Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN06823893Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020. 
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0682389