K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs D bought  the policy in 1999  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for PPI policy by completing an application  over the phone. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr D for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £313.49 a month towards  Mr and Mrs Ds 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £16.81 a month. 
As the policy was only taken in Mr Ds sole name  to cover Mr and Mrs Ds joint mortgage, 
Ive mainly considered  Mr Ds circumstances. At the time, Mr D was employed as an 
Engineer. He has provided conflicting information about the employment benefits  he was 
entitled to but I have  based my decision on the basis he would have  been  entitled to at least 
six months worth of sick and redundancy pay. Mr D has said he was in good health at the 
time of the sale. 
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2005. 
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ds representative says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs D 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ds representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mr and Mrs D about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs D and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN03641962The information Mr and Mrs D received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN03641963I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BOS  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BOS gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs D, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs D 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN03641964Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs D 
and BOS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs D know they had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BOS have given  us a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage application. I can see on it that there 
is a separate section  that recommends Mr and Mrs D consider taking PPI. I can see that Mr 
and Mrs D have completed  this section of the mortgage application. I can also see that Mr 
and Mrs D were  than provided with a quote for PPI and went  on to complete a separate 
application form for it.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs D knew  the policy  
was optional because  it was recommended they consider it and that they agreed  to take it 
out without undue pressure because they went on to complete  a separate  application for it. 
did BOS provide  advice?
BOS says it recommended  PPI to Mr and Mrs D. Mr and Mrs D cant  remember. So Im 
treating the sale as if it was advised  because  this puts Mr and Mrs D in the best possible 
position.  
This means  BOS had to advise Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BOS took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs D. It seems  Mr and Mrs D cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale that took place so long ago. The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Ds financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr D would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest BOS  considered  whether Mr D had any 
pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS  did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D given  their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BOS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr D met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs D had a need  for the policy  Mr D was the main  wage  earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Ds finances would be put under strain if he were not 
working  even allowing for the sickness and redundancy  benefits  he was entitled  to 
Ref: DRN03641965and Mrs Ds income. The policy would  have helped Mr and Mrs D manage the 
consequences were  Mr D unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs D. OR 
Although Mr and Mrs D say they were  financially stretched at the time,  Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs D. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ds employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or it still provided  useful cover  given  Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOS gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BOS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D was given a broad description  of what  
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr D 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs as this is outlined in the quote. And I have reached this conclusion because  I think its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have taken  out the policy without any sense of what the policy  
was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BOS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
and Mrs D agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs D Im not persuaded BOS 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BOS gave Mr and Mrs D all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ds. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ds representative considers to be 
Ref: DRN03641966poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs D about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs D have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BOS ought to have done either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs D? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs D suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs D. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs D suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs D would have  still taken  out the policy, had BOS done  things properly.  
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should  have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs D have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BOS had explained things properly, 
Mr and Mrs D would  have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs D say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs D had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BOS advised  them that there  was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they was getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Ref: DRN03641967As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs D was given about  the cost was 
clear. But the information  about other  aspects  of the policy, such  as the benefit, limitations 
and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have  been.  
Im not persuaded BOS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs D would get back  in return  in 
the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs Ds expectations  
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  their 
mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what the policy actually did  if anything,  it 
is more likely than not that the policy actually paid more in the event of a claim than they 
would have expected as there was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs D thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr D 
knew about in the 12 months before the start date that reoccurred in 24 months  
following the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr D 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr D be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonable qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs D pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs D from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr D was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr D wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr D didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
D might  reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely they would have  expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs D from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs D, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
Ref: DRN03641968If Mr and Mrs D had known they could only claim for disability if Mr D was unable  to do both 
his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view he might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr D was unable (through disability) to 
carry on his own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
BOS may not have  told Mr and Mrs D that any claim they made  would be limited to a 24-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 24 months was a longer period than Mr D would have received full sick pay for and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 24 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs D would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr D be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs D would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr D was made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs D would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs D would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs D found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs D believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
Ref: DRN03641969to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs D in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mr and Mrs D compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs D think BOS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why BOS  failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Mr and Mrs D, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1999  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ds representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find BOS negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs D and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BOS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs D in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN036419610my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 December 2020.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0364196