K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr H took out an unsecured personal  loan with Nationwide in 2001 and bought  the single 
premium PPI policy at the same  time.  
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Hs complaint upheld it. Nationwide disagrees and so     
Mr Hs complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H, so it didnt need to make  sure it was right for 
him in his circumstances.  But it did need to give him enough clear information  about the 
policy for him to be able to make that decision himself in an informed way. From  what  Ive 
seen, I dont think it did.
Mr H says he worked in his parents business  when  Nationwide  sold him the cover. Under  
the policy terms Nationwide  says applied to Mr Hs PPI, a policyholder is treated as being  
self-employed where (among other scenarios):
you  can control the affairs of a company you work for because either you or a relative  or 
spouse, individually or jointly, hold the majority of the voting rights  in that company
Nationwide says the real emphasis should be on the word control in this definition.  It says 
Mr H wouldnt  be treated  as self-employed simply because he worked in his parents 
business. Im afraid I think its more  likely  Mr H would be classed as being self-employed  
since his relatives (ie his parents) are likely to have controlled the affairs  of the business.  
Also under the policy terms,  to claim for unemployment as a self-employed  person, you have 
to provide evidence  that:
You stopped work because you could not find enough work  to meet  all your reasonable 
business and living expenses
For someone in Mr Hs situation, who it seems was essentially  an employee (even though 
one who was employed by his parents),  it might be more difficult than hed expect for him to 
meet this evidential requirement in order to make  a successful unemployment claim.
I understand Mr H took the PPI out over the phone but, understandably after such  a long 
time, theres  no call recording. Nationwide has pointed us to a skeleton  telephone sales  
script from 2003. This post-dates the sale of Mr Hs PPI by two years  but, in any case, it 
doesnt show the exclusion wouldve been drawn  to his attention.
Ref: DRN06327272I dont think Nationwide  gave Mr H enough information about  the policy before he decided  to 
buy it. It seems  to me he wouldnt have taken  out the policy if hed understood it was likely 
hed be classed as self-employed and how the limitations around claiming for unemployment 
would affect him. I think Mr H has lost out because of what  Nationwide  did wrong  and so it 
should put things right for him.
putting things right
Mr H borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve  been. He 
paid more than he shouldve each month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it 
wouldve. So Mr H needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, Nationwide should:
Work  out and pay Mr H the difference between  what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid without PPI.  
Work  out and pay Mr H the difference between  what it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have  cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr H paid from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide  can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide must  give 
Mr H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society 
to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0632727