K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps complaint is that Bank  of Scotland plc (the bank) (a) failed  to send an urgently 
needed replacement  credit card to his preferred address, having been previously happy to 
send another  payment card there,  and (b) has failed  to compensate him adequately for the 
mistakes it has made in its dealings with him over this issue.
background
Arrangements were  finally made to send  the replacement card to an alternative address 
specified by Mr P. So, the bank having already offered to pay Mr P £60 compensation, the 
issue is what if any further compensation the bank should pay. 
Our adjudicator concluded the bank  had paid, or offered to pay, enough. He sought  to 
mediate and bring about a satisfactory resolution of the complaint, which in the earlier stages  
meant trying to put in place arrangements whereby Mr P could receive  the replacement  card.  
My reading of the situation is that the adjudicators earlier mediation efforts failed through  a 
combination of the bank insisting on certain  formalities being  complied  with and Mr P being  
unable or unwilling to comply with those formalities. 
Before the ombudsman services involvement,  the bank accepts it made some mistakes in 
its dealings with Mr P and offered him £60 compensation. Those  mistakes  included a failure 
to manage Mr Ps expectations over the feasibility, from the banks perspective, of sending 
the replacement  credit card to Mr Ps preferred address. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I too have 
concluded there is nothing more the bank should reasonably be required to do, largely for 
the reasons the adjudicator has already  given.  Theres little Id wish to add.
While Im not suggesting Mr P thinks this, it isnt the case that we uphold a complaint simply 
because a bank  or other financial business hasnt done what the customer  asks. A bank is 
entitled to decide what its security  procedures will be, and the ombudsman  service would 
expect a customer to take reasonable steps  to comply with them.  
The basic  question we ask is whether  the bank has acted reasonably in all the 
circumstances. I think  it has in this case.  My job is to adjudicate on the banks actions not 
Mr Ps, and Im sure Mr P can do without any strictures from me. But it seems to me that 
Mr Ps very strong desire to maintain his privacy and guard  against any possible disclosure 
of information,  which  was his prerogative, conflicted  with the banks reasonable security 
requirements. The latter had to take priority,  in my view. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. I think the £60 that Bank of Scotland plc has already  offered 
to pay is adequate compensation. 
Ref: DRN09375412Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0937541