K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank  plc incorrectly calculated  the interest period on his cash ISA.
background
Mr S and his wife both have an ISA with TSB. He has complained about his ISA and she has 
complained about hers.  These complaints are for separate customers, although they were  
brought together, and they will result  in separate replies.
Mr Ss ISA was for a two year period with an interest  rate of 1.6%. It was due to mature  on 
11 April 2018. But when  it matured,  Mr S said that TSB had calculated  the interest on the 
account incorrectly. He said he rang TSB, and no one could give him an interest calculation  
over the phone. He said he spent 45 minutes on that call.
Mr S said he complained, and he was told that he wouldnt get a full year of interest on the 
account. He would get interest from the date that the ISA was opened and paid until the end 
of the financial  year, 5 April. Mr S said that the call handler on this call was combative.
Mr S said that TSB then wrote to him, and gave a different explanation. But he said that the 
terms and conditions of this account  stated  that the interest is payable  for a year, and should 
be paid on the anniversary  of the account opening. Mr S said hed written to TSB about that, 
and it hadnt replied.
TSB wrote to Mr S. It said that the money  hed paid across from a different ISA provider had 
arrived on 8 May 2016, but it had paid him interest  from 1 May 2016, until 11 April 2017. It 
then paid interest on his account from 12 April 2017  to 10 April 2018. And this interest had 
been paid at 1.66%.
TSB didnt  think it had done  anything wrong, but it was sorry that it had kept Mr S on the 
phone for so long,  so it paid £6 for his call costs.
TSBs internal notes  show that it opened Mr Ss account on 11 April.  He arranged on that 
day to transfer some  money  from another ISA, with a different provider, as soon as that old 
ISA matured. Although  Mr S made  the arrangements  for his new ISA in April,  his old ISA 
wasnt due to mature until the start of May, and transferring the money before that date 
wouldve meant that Mr S would have to pay a penalty to that other  ISA provider.
The money arrived with TSB on 6 May.  TSB then paid Mr S £9.78 to compensate  for loss of 
interest. That was to cover the time between when his old provider closed his account, and 
the date that his TSB account was credited with the money from that account. This credit 
payment doesnt  show separately on his statements, but TSB has sent us an interest 
calculation which shows that this amount was added to his first interest payment. Mr Ss 
statements show two interest  payments. Each  one of those was made on the anniversary of 
his account opening.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. She said that the first explanation that TSB had given 
Mr S over the phone about his ISA was wrong.  The second explanation that it had sent him 
in writing quoted  the wrong interest  rate, and said that the interest had been  applied for a 
total of less than two years but didnt  explain why. Mr S didnt receive any reply to his 
complaint on 27 April about why his account  hadnt been paid interest on the anniversary of 
the account opening.
Ref: DRN05177492Our adjudicator didnt  think that TSB had got Mr Ss interest payment wrong. She said it had 
just opened his account straight away, when he first enquired about it. So the annual  interest  
date would be a year from then, not from the later date when  Mr Ss pre-existing ISA savings 
were transferred into the account. And our adjudicator didnt  think that the call handler had 
been rude to him. But she thought that TSB shouldve  been able to set out clearly how it had 
calculated the interest  on Mr Ss account.  And she didnt  think  it had done that for Mr S. So 
she thought that TSB should  pay Mr S £50 to make  up for that.
TSB didnt  agree with that. It said that it knew it had made mistakes in the explanation of 
interest that it had sent to Mr S, but it said that his wife had made the same  complaint. And 
TSB thought that Mr S had probably  read the explanation of interest that it had sent to his 
wife, which  didnt contain these errors. So it thought  that £50 wasnt justified.
Our adjudicator didnt  change her mind. She said that the letter sent to Mr S was specific to 
his complaint. TSB then agreed  to pay £50.
But Mr S didnt agree. He said that £50 wasnt enough to make  up for what  had gone wrong. 
He said that hed been told one thing on the phone, which  was wrong, then told something 
else in a letter, which was also wrong. He said that his wife had previously brought a 
complaint to our service, and been  paid £200,  which he thought would also be an 
appropriate amount  in this case.  And he said that the ISA that TSB opened for him had been 
opened with a nil balance, and had stayed at nil for almost three  weeks,  until the money from 
his previous ISA provider  had been transferred across. He said that TSBs terms and 
conditions set out that it wont open an account with less than £3,000.
Because Mr S didnt  agree  with our adjudicator, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then:
-Id listened  to the call where  Mr S said that TSBs call handler was rude to him, and 
I didnt think she was rude. But I didnt think she was right either. It was clear  from that 
call, and from the later letter,  that Mr S had been  repeatedly given wrong information by 
TSB about his account. A correct explanation  of the interest calculation was sent to his 
wife, but it doesnt ever seem  to have been  sent to him. TSB just said that it thinks  that 
he wouldve read the explanation that it sent to Mrs S. Unfortunately,  Mr S has told us 
Mrs S never actually received that. And although  I knew  that Mr and Mrs S brought  their 
complaints together to TSB, I didnt think it was right for TSB to say that one customer  
should rely on information sent to another. After  all, they are separate customers.
-Whilst TSB might think that Mr S would read the correspondence sent to his wife, the 
right answer would be for a correct explanation to be sent to Mr S about  his own 
account. And, of course, it wouldve been  better if Mr S hadnt been given two separate 
incorrect explanations  about how his interest  was worked out.
-I thought that this issue had affected  Mr Ss trust in TSB. And he did seem to have spent 
quite some time trying to get a straightforward  explanation of how the interest on his 
Ref: DRN05177493account has been calculated. It was unfortunate that he didnt seem to have  received  
that until he brought his complaint to our service.
-I didnt think that the £50 that TSB has offered was quite  the right amount to make up for 
what had gone wrong in this case. I thought that TSB should  pay Mr S £100 to make up 
for what had gone wrong.
-I knew Mr S didnt  think  that was enough.  He mentioned another  complaint with our 
service, in which £200 was paid. But each  complaint that is brought to our service is 
assessed on its own merits,  and receiving a certain amount for one complaint doesnt  
mean that the same amount will be paid for a different  complaint.
-Mr S also said that TSB was in breach of its own terms and conditions  when it opened  
his account, because it was opened with a nil balance. But I thought that Mr S had 
arranged to transfer a large  amount of money,  at the same time as the account  was 
opened. So I didnt  think that it was unreasonable for TSB to open that account while that 
transfer was pending.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr S wrote to accept my decision. TSB wrote to make further  representations  on the case.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
TSB has provided one response to these two complaints. But I noted  in my provisional 
decision that these  are separate complaints, and part of what  had gone wrong here seemed 
to me to have happened because TSB didnt treat these complaints separately. I have  
endeavoured to separate its response, where  I can.
TSB said that as part of Mr Ss decision I said that it ought to have replied separately to Mr S 
about his complaint, and I didnt give it credit for the correct  explanation which  was contained  
in a letter to Mrs S, It said that this was inconsistent with my position on Mrs Ss complaint, 
and it felt that this was somewhat unfair. It wanted  me to reconsider that.
I think this argument  was largely made  in support of a point about Mrs Ss complaint, but as 
TSB has combined its responses, I cant be entirely sure. For the avoidance of doubt, I still 
think that TSB shouldve  provided an accurate explanation to Mr S of how his interest had 
been calculated.  Mr and Mrs S are able to write  jointly  to TSB if they wish to. But I still dont  
think its appropriate for TSB to rely on a letter which was addressed  solely to one customer 
to answer the complaint of another.  Even  where those customers have addressed their 
complaints jointly  to TSB.
TSB wanted to highlight  that:
the interest calculation  is and always  was correct
Mr and Mrs S had all of the necessary information available to them  before their 
complaints were raised.
Ref: DRN05177494TSB thought it was reasonable to think that they could have worked out why there was a 
difference and that the interest was correct.
TSBs argument is that Mr S couldve worked  this out himself if hed studied the relevant 
documentation in detail. But I dont think its unreasonable for Mr S, two years  after his 
account had been opened, not to have  a clear recollection of how interest on the account 
would be paid. And I dont think its unreasonable for him to simply ask TSB that question.
TSB accepted that its call handlers explanation to Mr S was poor,  but it said that it can be 
difficult to explain something like this to a customer who is in an entrenched position.  I have  
listened again to this call, and its my view that the call handler had no difficulty  setting out 
her position  as it then was. Mr S wasnt seeking to argue his corner.  He said that he wasnt 
checking what she said at the time, so he just noted  it. The explanation was simply wrong.
TSB said that as soon  as Mr S believed it had got the calculation wrong he lost faith in the 
bank. But it hadnt  got it wrong. TSB acknowledged  that Mr S wanted more  money,  but it felt 
the original adjudication was appropriate.  There was no error with the interest and it felt that 
a total of £150 (because it said that was effectively what I had awarded) was too high to 
reflect any shortcomings  in the explanation Mr S was given. TSB wanted me to look again at 
the final response letter it had sent to Mr S, which aside from the mistake with the interest 
rate, accurately detailed the number  of days interest paid, which was the discrepancy with 
Mr Ss own calculation.
I continue to think that being  offered a reassurance that an interest calculation is correct,  
along with an explanation  which was wrong, and then provided with a written explanation 
which was different, and which also contained  errors, is likely to be what really  shook Mr Ss 
faith in TSB. I think thats consistent with the call I listened to. I also note that there  was no 
explanation in the letter of why Mr S had been  paid interest for less than a year.  So, setting 
aside the mistake over the interest  rate, the letter still doesnt seem to have  provided  a full 
response to his initial concern. TSB only needed to tell Mr S that interest for 2016/17 was 
paid on the anniversary  of the account  opening,  not the anniversary of his funds  arriving.
I would also like to flag again  that these are two separate complaints,  with two separate  
awards. In this case, I think  it is reasonable to award  £100 for TSBs poor handling of Mr Ss 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mr S £100 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0517749