K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that they were mis-sold a mortgage protection plan by HSBC  UK 
Bank Plc. They say they were led to believe  they had to take out the plan in order  for their 
mortgage application to be successful, but they had no need for the cover.  
background
The joint-life protection plan was recommended to Mr and Mrs B in 2004. It provided 
£150,000 of cover over a 14 year term. It was documented  that they wanted the cover to 
ensure that the borrowing could be repaid in the event that either of them  died. Several other 
types of cover  critical illness and income protection  were also recommended  but 
declined by Mr and Mrs B. 
HSBC didnt uphold  the complaint as it felt that the recommendation  was suitable. It said that 
Mr and Mrs B had been provided  with full details of the cover  and that there was no evidence 
to support their assertion  that theyd been  told the cover was obligatory. 
HSBC noted Mr and Mrs Bs concern that the policy had not been cancelled when the 
mortgage was redeemed. But it explained  that it wouldnt have been in a position to do so as 
only Mr and Mrs B wouldve been authorised  to cancel it. 
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with HSBCs response, so referred the complaint to this 
service. But our investigator also didnt think it should be upheld.  He felt that the 
documentary evidence  suggested that thered been  discussion of life and other types of 
cover available. And so Mr and Mrs B had most likely made an informed  decision  about what 
type of cover  they wanted to put in place. 
The investigator also noted Mr and Mrs Bs additional concern about an increase in 
premiums. He explained that this was because of a medical weighting added  after 
underwriting, which was common practice  when health factors  were  taken  into account.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree with the investigator. They  highlighted the absence of their 
signatures on some of the sales paperwork, the fact that the policy  had remained in place 
after the mortgage was redeemed and that theyd had no financial reason to take out the 
cover. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B feel strongly they were mis-sold the protection  plan. But 
looking at their circumstances  at the time it seems  to have  been  a reasonable 
recommendation that I would have expected an adviser to make when a new mortgage was 
being taken out.  
HSBC has confirmed that life cover  wasnt a condition  of lending. And while Ive no reason to 
doubt Mr and Mrs Bs recollections, I have  to balance their evidence against the 
Ref: DRN07881722documentation produced at the time, none  of which supports  their assertion that they were  
told they had to take the cover out. 
I would imagine the adviser wouldve  strongly recommended  taking  out the plan, which  
would have been a prudent and quite  common course of action. I note Mr and Mrs B say 
they had no financial  reason to take it out. But with responsibility for new borrowing of 
£150,000 I think  it would  always have been beneficial  for them  in the event of one of them 
passing away prematurely.  
In summary,  I dont consider that Ive seen sufficient evidence  to find that HSBC  acted 
incorrectly or unfairly in advising Mr and Mrs B. Im satisfied it made a suitable, optional  
recommendation for cover.  I also dont think it acted incorrectly in either increasing the plan 
premiums at the outset,  as a result of the medical weighting,  nor in not cancelling the policy 
when the mortgage was redeemed. It wouldnt have been able to do this as only the plan 
holders, Mr and Mrs B, wouldve been  authorised  to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0788172