K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way a claim for accidental damage under Mrs Ss home 
insurance policy has been handled  by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) and that it 
wouldnt cover  her claim.
background
At the end of May 2018 Mrs S made a claim to RSA.  According to RSA Mrs S said her 
computer kept switching itself off. RSA said her policy didnt cover mechanical or electrical  
breakdown. In July Mrs S contacted RSA again.  It said there was nothing to show that her 
computer had been damaged by an insured event but if she sent it a report  setting out what  
the damage was, the likely cause and the condition of the computer, it would reconsider the 
claim.
Mrs S contacted this service. We arranged a call between RSA and Mrs S. During  the call 
in September  2018 RSA again  said it would reconsider the claim if Mrs S sent it a report or 
other evidence regarding the cause  of the damage.  Mrs S says she asked RSA in the 
phone call whether  it needed to examine her computer and it said it didnt.
Mrs S sent RSA the report in February 2019.  The report  said that the computers  
motherboard had been damaged by it falling on the floor.  RSA said it would need to 
examine the computer as the report didnt  have enough information for it to accept the 
claim. It said her policy explains that when  making a claim, policyholders shouldnt  get rid of 
any damaged items before it had a chance to inspect them. Mrs S explained that because 
shed been told the computer was beyond repair, shed  only taken the hard drive  and left 
the rest of the computer with the engineer in his workshop.  RSA said as Mrs S hadnt 
provided evidence  of the type and extent  of the damage she was claiming for, it wouldnt 
cover her claim.
Mrs S complained to RSA. It didnt change its decision.
Mr and Mrs S brought the complaint to this service.  Mrs S said shed had difficulty  getting  
her computer back from the engineers workshop but eventually managed to do so.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
An extract  from my provisional findings  is set out below:
There are two issues here - whether RSA treated Mrs S fairly in not accepting  her claim 
and the way its handled it. Ill look at them each in turn.
Its an established principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to demonstrate they 
have a valid claim under their policy. Mrs Ss policy covers her for accidental damage to 
computer equipment. Accidental  damage is defined in her policy as sudden, unexpected  
and visible  damage  which has not been  caused on purpose. The damage as initially 
described to RSA was that the computer  kept switching itself off and this had been 
happening for a few months. This in itself doesnt fit the definition of accidental damage 
given above.
RSA said if it had been told at the outset that the computer had been dropped, it would 
have arranged for its supplier to collect and inspect it. Ive listened  to the call between 
Ref: DRN07053532Mrs S and RSA in September 2019. Theres no mention in the call of the computer having  
been dropped  and it doesnt appear to have been mentioned when Mrs S first notified the 
claim either. RSA explained in the call that Mrs S needed to show  that the damage had 
been caused by an insured event such as accidental  damage or vandalism and one way to 
do this would be to provide a report confirming the cause of the damage.
The report  that Mrs S provided is very brief. It simply says that the motherboard was 
cracked due to the computer having been dropped on the floor. In view of the fact that 
thered been no previous reference to accidental damage I dont think it was unreasonable  
of RSA to say that it wanted to examine the computer  before it could  accept the claim.
Mrs S is unhappy because she feels RSA delayed her claim by over a year and she feels  
humiliated by the way it treated her. This claim has been ongoing for a long time but Im not 
persuaded thats all RSAs fault. After Mrs S first notified RSA about her claim on 30 May 
2018, it appears RSA tried to call her to tell her it was declining  her claim but had no 
answer. It didnt take any further action until Mrs S chased it on 2 July. Then it sent her a 
letter explaining  why it was declining her claim on the same day. I dont think Mrs S should  
have had to chase to get any response at all from RSA. Other  than that I cant  see any 
delay on RSAs part in its claim  handling.  I appreciate that Mrs S was unhappy with RSAs 
response after she sent it the report  from her computer engineer but it did respond  promptly  
and, as Ive explained I think its response at that stage was reasonable. Overall  I think the 
sum of £50 is appropriate to compensate Mrs S for the initial  delay.
Mr and Mrs S say that RSA told them in the telephone call in September 2018 that it didnt 
need to inspect the computer and only needed  to see a report  on the cause of damage.
Having listened  to the call I think there must  have  been a misunderstanding  on this point.  
RSA did explain that it needed evidence such as a cause of damage  report to take the 
claim any further. It didnt say anything about not needing to inspect the computer. Its 
common for insurers to require policyholders to keep damaged items that theyre 
claiming for in case they want to inspect them before accepting the claim. I can 
understand Mrs S being disappointed by RSA needing further proof  of the damage.  But I 
think this is normal claim handling procedure rather than humiliating treatment.
Mr and Mrs S say theyve paid £80 for the engineers report and can provide a receipt 
on request. The policy says:
Where we have asked you for specific information relevant to your claim we will pay 
for any reasonable expenses you incur in providing  us with the above information.
RSA did suggest  that they provide such a report.  But it says it hadnt seen any evidence 
that the report cost £80. Mr and Mrs S say they can provide a receipt  for this. So in order  
to treat Mr and Mrs S fairly I think RSA should  reimburse them for the cost of the report  
subject to receiving satisfactory evidence  of what they paid in respect of this.
Mr and Mrs S are also unhappy with the way RSA has dealt with their complaint about its 
claim handling. There are certain  things  I cant look into. Of relevance here, I can only 
look into things that RSA does that are regulated (known as regulated activities). 
Complaint handling  isnt something  thats regulated. So, regardless of how well or badly 
RSA might have handled  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint,  thats not something I can investigate 
or make a decision on. So I cant require RSA to pay any compensation for poor 
complaint handling.
In response RSA said:
Ref: DRN07053533Mrs S hadnt explained how the damage had happened.
A fee of £80 for the limited information in the report  was unreasonable and there was no 
evidence of the cost.
It agreed there had been a minor service issue but said Mrs S hadnt complained to it 
about this  her original complaint  had been about the claim being  declined.
Mr and Mrs Ss daughter replied on their behalf. Ive read her reply  carefully  and the main 
points are:
The computer  didnt  suffer from wear  and tear.
RSA refused  to collect the computer and clearly told them it only needed to see the 
engineers report.
RSA kept changing case handlers.
RSA should compensate them for its service  failures.
They still have  the computer.
After two and a half years  the claim still hasnt been settled.
Mr S is now in poor health.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In an email to RSA dated 26 March 2019  Mr S explained how the damage happened. I agree 
that £80 is rather  a lot to pay for a limited  report but I assume it also covers the cost of 
examining the computer  to find the cause of the damage. Ive already said that RSA is only 
liable to reimburse Mr and Mrs S for the cost of the report if they can provide  satisfactory  
evidence of having paid that amount.
I accept that the original  complaint was primarily about the claim being declined but Mr S did 
also raise the fact that he was unhappy  with RSAs service. In any event my role is to look at 
the whole  picture,  not just what the consumer has said.
Ive explained  in my provisional findings quoted above why I dont think (apart from the 
initial short delay)  RSA has been at fault in the way its handled  this claim or the time its 
taken. More people  became involved  in the claim after Mr and Mrs S complained  but I dont 
think there was any inconsistency in its approach. I think any perceived  inconsistency  was 
due to a misunderstanding as Ive explained.  
If Mrs S wants to progress her claim further,  the next stage is for RSA to inspect the 
computer and its in both parties interests  for this to happen as soon as possible. The 
inspection should  determine whether or not the computer  is suffering from wear and tear or 
whether it has been damaged by having been  dropped. 
Im sorry  to hear about  Mr Ss poor health and I appreciate  how disappointed he and Mrs S 
have been with RSA but nothing that their daughter has said persuades  me to change my 
provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN07053534my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs S 
£50 compensation  for delay on its part and to reimburse them £80 for the cost of their 
engineers report  subject to receiving  satisfactory evidence of the payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 September 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0705353