K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about Haven Insurance Company  Limiteds handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Haven includes their agents.
background
Mr Cs car was insured  with Haven. His cover was limited to Third Party,  Fire and Theft  
(TPFT). In September  2018, Mr C was involved in an accident.  He said another car hit his 
causing damage. So, he claimed on his policy with Haven.
Haven told Mr C that as his cover was limited to TPFT he couldnt  claim on his own policy  for 
the damage to his car, as he would  have been able to do had his cover been 
comprehensive. 
Haven agreed  to contact  the other  drivers insurer to see if they were willing to accept 
liability. The other insurer said they didnt accept being at fault for the accident. But at the 
same time the other driver  didnt claim against Mr Cs policy. 
Mr C made  his own efforts by claiming directly  against the other drivers insurer but without 
success. He also obtained CCTV footage of the accident and sent it to both the other drivers 
insurer and Haven.
Because Mr C felt he wasnt getting  the help and assistance  he expected from Haven as his 
insurer, he complained.  He was also unhappy  with how he was dealt with by a call handler 
during one particular call when he asked to speak with a manager.
Haven accepted that their call handlers standard of service fell below what was expected 
and they apologised to Mr C. But they didnt  agree  that they had done anything  wrong in 
their handling  of the claim. As Mr C didnt think Haven  treated him fairly, he brought  his 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators  looked into it. He felt that Haven had dealt with Mr C fairly. As Mr C 
didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my first provisional  decision  on 24 March  2020. I said that, given the wording of the 
policy Haven had provided us with indicated  that Mr C met the criteria for Haven to pursue a 
claim against the other driver, but hadn't  done  so, I decided to provisionally uphold the 
complaint and instruct them to take that action now. In relation to the way Havens call 
handler had dealt with Mr C when he asked to speak  with a manager,  I felt that Havens 
apology having  upheld that aspect  of his complaint was sufficient. Haven and Mr C can refer 
to my first provisional decision  for my full comments.
Haven and Mr C were  invited to comment on my first provisional decision. Haven said that 
they had made an error and provided our service with the wrong policy  terms and conditions. 
So the policy  terms I quoted in my first provisional  decision - which  Haven had provided me 
with - werent applicable  to Mr Cs policy. That meant  my first provisional decision that the 
complaint should  be upheld  was based on the wrong information. 
Ref: DRN00962442Haven provided  the correct policy  terms and conditions and asked me to reconsider my 
decision based on the correct policy.
Given the importance of the new information  Haven provided me, I issued a second 
provisional decision and gave Mr C and Haven the opportunity to consider that and to 
provide their comments.  
In my second provisional decision  issued on 30 April 2020. I said:
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not 
intending to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The policy terms Haven originally provided our service was called Private Car. But 
Haven said Mr Cs policy was Private Car Plus. And Ive seen from his policy 
certificate that is indeed  the correct cover Mr C had. Having reviewed the correct  
policy terms I can see that it doesnt  contain the Section H terms that I discussed  in 
detail in my first provisional decision which formed the basis of my decision that the 
complaint should  be upheld.
And under the terms of the correct policy, as Mr Cs cover is limited to TPFT,  he 
cannot claim under his own policy and Haven arent required to pursue the other 
driver or their insurer on Mr Cs behalf  like they would have been  able to do had the 
cover been  comprehensive. So, while Haven made some efforts by contacting the 
other drivers  insurer  to help Mr C recover his loss resulting from the accident,  even 
though Haven believed the other  driver was at fault Haven arent required to take any 
further action. And that means Mr C would have  to take his own action to recover  his 
loss, Haven is under no policy obligation to do so. And Mr C might wish to seek 
independent legal advice if he considers taking this action.
I will say that it is very disappointing  that Haven gave our service  the wrong policy 
terms which led to my first provisional  decision giving Mr C the expectation  that his 
complaint would be upheld. I know this additional  provisional decision will come as a 
shock to Mr C and will upset him. Our service is dependent on parties providing  
accurate information  but that didnt  initially  happen in this case. Haven  have now 
corrected their error and provided the correct  policy terms. But the error  has 
prolonged the process for Mr C further. If he wishes to, Mr C can raise  a separate 
complaint with Haven  about the impact  of their error of providing us with the wrong  
information on him.
But I should make  it clear to Mr C that he still has the opportunity to respond and give 
any further information he feels necessary in relation to what I have said before I 
come to a final conclusion. Once  thats  happened I will issue  my final decision. 
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Haven accepted  my second  provisional 
decision. Mr C didnt  and made some  further  comments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. 
Ref: DRN00962443Our service is in the process  of writing to Mr C separately to respond to his further  
comments hes raised in response  to my second provisional decision. And as those arent 
things that affect  my decision in this complaint, I wont  comment  on those  in this decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.   
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0096244