K820x#14Complaint
Mr H has complained about the advice given by Goodmans  Financial Planning Ltd 
(Goodmans) to switch his personal pension plan to a Self-Invested Personal Pension.
Background
Mr H was a member of his employers group personal pension plan (GPP), invested with a 
business Ill refer to as R. Mr Hs funds were  invested  in Rs Governed Portfolio 5 (GP5). In 
2016 Mr H met with an adviser  from Goodmans to discuss his retirement needs. In 
September 2016 Goodmans recommended  Mr H switch the benefits held in his GPP  to a 
Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP)  with a business Ill refer to as N. It recommended  
he place his funds  in the Goodmans 60 (G60)  portfolio. It also recommended  he move 
funds held in an ISA to the SIPP.
Mr M accepted the recommendation to switch his pension benefits  to the SIPP  but chose to 
not to move  his ISA funds.
In September  2017 Mr H was offered a review with the adviser but he chose not to have it, 
explaining everything was on course  for his retirement plans.
Mr H made  a complaint  to Goodmans in December 2017 as hed discovered  that his pension 
wouldve performed  better  if hed remained  invested in his employers GPP. He said hed 
made it clear  to Goodmans that he wanted  to boost his pension to facilitate an early 
retirement and he wasnt  made  aware the G60 portfolio had a lower risk rating than Rs GP5.
Goodmans didnt  agree  unsuitable advice had been  given. It acknowledged that when Mr H 
had approached it for advice he had a high attitude to risk (ATR), but its adviser  had 
recommended he lower his risk rating  given the short time to retirement. Goodmans said 
Mr H accepted its recommendation. It also said it believed  Mr Hs complaint had been  driven  
by the lower performance, but it hadnt given Mr H any guarantees that the G60 portfolio 
would outperform Rs GP5.
Mr H referred  his complaint to our service and the adjudicator upheld it. The adjudicator 
thought Mr Hs GPP was already meeting his investment objectives and if anything,  
Goodmans shouldve recommended  an internal fund switch with R instead. They said the 
ongoing higher fees payable for the SIPP made the recommendation unsuitable. The 
adjudicator recommended  Mr H should be put back into the position he wouldve been in if 
suitable advice  had been given.
Goodmans didnt  agree  and asked  for a final decision. It said there werent  any suitable 
internal funds that it could recommend with R due to the quality of the defensive assets. It 
said it was reasonable for it to recommend Mr H switch out of Rs GP5 as he was entering  
the life-styling phase, meaning his funds  would be gradually moved to lower risk assets, 
which didnt meet his ATR.  Goodmans disputed  that the SIPP  charges were  higher as Mr H 
couldve declined to pay fees to receive ongoing advice.
I reviewed this complaint  and told both parties  that I didnt intend to uphold it. I explained that 
I thought Goodmans  recommendation was suitable  and that the costs attached to the SIPP  
were lower than those payable to R. I said it wasnt reasonable to take the ongoing advice 
fee into account as this was a sum paid for a separate service that Mr H didnt have to take. 
Ref: DRN03432512I also said that I didnt  think Goodmans had given Mr H any reason to believe the G60 
portfolio would perform  better than Rs GP5.
Goodmans accepted this but Mr H didnt  agree.  He maintained that he wanted higher growth 
from his pension, and he was assured by Goodmans adviser that the G60 portfolio would 
provide it. He also said he was led to believe he had to take out the ongoing advised service.  
Mr H added that when  he complained about the ongoing advice  fees Goodmans  reduced 
this to 0.75% rather than removing it completely.
I informed Mr H that the concerns hed raised  about being misled  over the ongoing  advice 
fees were new issues that I wouldnt be taking into account in this decision. I explained he 
would need to refer these  points to Goodmans to consider as a new complaint.
As I have received  both parties  responses to my provisional thoughts on this case, I can 
now make  my final decision on the matter.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know this will be disappointing news for Mr H, but Ill explain why.
When providing advice  to Mr H, Goodmans was required to make a recommendation that 
was suitable for him, based  on his circumstances and objectives. In order to determine  
whether a suitable recommendation  was made,  Ive reviewed the documents  completed by 
the adviser at the time, which includes  the meeting notes, risk questionnaires and suitability 
report.
The information gathered at the time of the advice  in 2016 shows Mr H was 58 and was 
subscribed to his employers GPP.  It was recorded that Mr H was entering the life-styling  
phase of the plan,  meaning that as he approached retirement, his investments would 
gradually be switched  to lower-risk funds. Mr H said he intended  to retire at age 65 or 66. 
When Mr H completed  Goodmans risk profile, his ATR was high. Mr Hs answers placed 
him in the highest risk rating group  7 out of a possible  7. Goodmans  didnt think  this was a 
sensible approach  given Mr Ms desire  to retire in the next 5  10 years and the fact the 
funds in question  represented the main source of his retirement income.  Although Mr H had 
two buy-to-let properties that he was considering  selling in the future, the equity held within 
these properties  wasnt sufficient to pay off his residential mortgage.  So, Goodmans 
downgraded Mr Hs risk rating,  placing him in risk group 5. This still represented a medium-
high ATR.
I dont think that was unreasonable given Mr Hs limited capacity for loss. Whilst a high-risk 
strategy could pay off and provide greater growth, it also has the potential to deliver  
damaging losses  that couldnt be recovered in time before Mr H wanted to retire.
Mr H says that he told the adviser that he wanted  to take a high risk approach  with his 
pension so that it would be possible for him to retire in 4  5 years time, if not sooner. But 
based on what Ive seen, the notes  made  by the adviser and the information  contained  in the 
suitability report shows that Mr H told the adviser  he was due to retire  at 65 or 66, which  was 
7  8 years away. It also showed  that the adviser had assessed Mr Ms ATR as 5 out of 7. 
Mr H signed a copy of the report on 16 September 2016, confirming the following:
Ref: DRN03432513I have read this report and received  all of the accompanying  documentation  outlined in the 
Important Information  section. I accept that the advice is based  on the information provided 
and confirm that the recommendations  contained  within this report  are a fair reflection of my 
circumstances, objectives and priorities.
If any of the information  in the report wasnt right or didnt reflect Mr Hs understanding of his 
discussions with the adviser, I wouldve expected Mr H to challenge  this. However,  as Mr H 
didnt raise any concerns  upon receipt of the report,  it seems to me that he accepted  the 
advisers assessment  of his ATR and objectives.  
Based on all of the evidence  Ive seen, I think its fair to say that Mr H sought  advice  from 
Goodmans as he wanted higher growth  and he wanted to maximise  his pension in the lead 
up to retirement. However,  after discussing his ATR and capacity for loss, he accepted his 
ATR was 5/7 or medium-high. Rs GP5 exposed around 80% of Mr Hs funds to growth  
assets  so this exposed  Mr Hs pension to more risk than he said he was prepared to take 
at this time.  Furthermore, because Mr H was in the GPPs life-styling phase, his funds were 
due to be moved over to Rs Governed Portfolio 6, which  only exposed around  50% of his 
funds to growth assets. This wouldve represented  a lower-risk than Mr H wanted to take 
with his pension  funds. For this reason, I think it was reasonable for Goodmans to 
recommend that Mr H switch his pension to a new product to meet his ATR and objectives to 
retirement.
Goodmans considered the options available to Mr H through  R. But it didnt think  there were 
any suitable investment  opportunities given  his desire for growth but limited  capacity for loss. 
For this reason, Goodmans  recommended  Mr H switch the balance of the funds  held in the 
GPP to a SIPP  with N to facilitate investing  in the G60 portfolio. It believed  the diverse  range 
of funds available to Mr H through the G60 portfolio, and the focus on high quality assets, 
met his investment  objectives. In the suitability report  the following explanation was given for 
the recommendation:
Broad diversification:  The Portfolio contains over 10,000 individual  equity and bonds 
(as at March 2016). The equity portion of the portfolio is spread across the entire 
global stock market  with no bias towards individual countries,  or industrial  sectors.
Best of breed funds:  Goodmans  operate a quarterly whole of market  screening 
program that screens over 30,000 Unit Trusts, OEICS, ETF's and Investment Trusts 
to ensure that only the 'best of breed' funds are used in the portfolio. Many  of the 
funds used are unavailable for direct investment by retail investors and carry high 
minimum investments. However, due to the use of an investment platform, and 
through special  permissions  granted  by Dimensional, Goodmans  can make  these 
funds available  for your portfolio.
Low Costs: We believe that investment costs matter. This portfolio carries a 
combined ongoing fund charge of 0.34%. The individual  funds have been selected  on 
their ability  to provide  the required exposure  to the relevant  asset class  and for their 
low charges. This compares with many active fund portfolios where the fund charges 
range from 0.8% to 1.2%. The portfolio therefore  offers best of breed funds at less 
than half the cost of most retail portfolios. As the funds selected are index funds the 
level of portfolio turnover is also very low keeping trading costs  to a minimum. The 
unseen costs of portfolio  turnover can account for another 1% of cost where  turnover 
is 100%  per annum.
It captures the small cap and value equity premium: Our research and review  of the 
available academic studies shows that a premium  or additional  return exists for 
Ref: DRN03432514investment in smaller companies and value companies. The portfolio carries  a tilt to 
those companies to provide, over the longer term, additional returns  above those 
offered by the general market.
Overall, I dont  think this recommendation was unsuitable. The G60 portfolio ensured that 
Mr Hs pension would continue to enjoy growth,  but it wouldnt be exposed to unnecessary 
risk as he approached  retirement. So, I think it met his objectives overall.
I dont think it was necessarily made  clear  to Mr H in the suitability report that the G60 
portfolio had a lower  risk rating than Rs GP5, but I dont think  the adviser needed to explain 
this point specifically.  This is because I think  it was made clear  to Mr H that the adviser 
recommended he take less risk with his pension  funds. And I think Mr H accepted this 
recommendation at the time.  So, the adviser  simply needed to recommend an investment 
that met with Mr Hs ATR and objectives. And as Ive explained above,  I think he did. If Mr H 
didnt want to lower his risk profile, I think he couldve declined the recommendation, just as 
he declined  the recommendation  to move his ISA funds to the SIPP.
Whilst I think the recommendation made  was suitable, Ive considered whether the overall 
costs involved in taking  the advice were  prohibitive.
The GPP  charged  0.75% of the value  of Mr Hs fund each year. The SIPP with N involved a 
fund charge of 0.34%  and a platform charge of 0.35%  a total of 0.69%. This was clearly 
explained to Mr H in the suitability report,  expressed in both percentage and monetary terms. 
So, the SIPP  was marginally cheaper than Mr Hs existing  pension.
Mr H maintains that the SIPP  wasnt cheaper  as he had to pay ongoing advice fees to 
Goodmans as well. He says this increased  the overall charges to 1.69%. But I dont think the 
ongoing advice  fee can reasonably be equated with the SIPP  charges  because this was a 
service Mr H subscribed to separately from the initial advice. So, I dont think  the plan 
charges rendered the advice to switch unsuitable.
Ive considered also the impact of the initial advice fee. As Ive stated above, I think  Mr H 
had a need for pension advice. So, I think he wouldve always incurred an advice  fee. But 
Ive considered whether an internal fund switch wouldve cost him less.
Goodmans usually  charges a 3% advice fee. However,  in this instance Mr H was charged  a 
fee of 1.5%. Goodmans has explained  it gave Mr H a discounted fee because it 
recommended he invest  in its G60 portfolio,  meaning that no extra due diligence needed to 
be carried out on the funds as these  were pre-built and approved.
I asked Goodmans  what it would  have charged if it had instead recommended  an internal 
fund switch. Goodmans explained that it wouldnt  have been able to offer a discounted  fee 
as it wouldve needed to carry out further due diligence  on the available  fund choices to build 
a bespoke portfolio  that met Mr Hs needs.  So, if Goodmans  had recommended  an internal 
fund switch instead (notwithstanding  Goodmans assertion that it wouldnt have done so) this 
wouldve cost Mr H more. So, even if I could  say Goodmans shouldve recommended an 
internal fund switch,  I dont think Mr H has suffered a loss here.
Finally, Ive considered  the points Mr H has raised about the expectations he says 
Goodmans gave  him about future performance  of the G60 portfolio. 
Ref: DRN03432515Mr H says that he was led to believe investing in the G60 portfolio would outperform his 
workplace pension and this was the only reason  hed agreed to the switch.  I appreciate  that 
Mr H may have  expected  higher growth following the advice taken. But I dont think 
Goodmans gave  Mr H any guarantees that his new pension would outperform his existing 
one. I know that projections  were  provided, which showed how the Goodmans portfolio had 
performed compared  with his employers GPP over the last three years. This showed  that 
the G60 portfolio had performed better over this time. But the suitability report  provided the 
following warnings:
Past performance is used as a guide  only. It is no guarantee of future returns.
Your investment can go up and down and you may not get back the full amount 
invested.
Other than deposit-based  savings, investments should be viewed over the medium to 
long term - a period  to be 5 plus years.
If you transfer or surrender the plan, especially during the early years, the fund value  
may be less than you have invested.
The investment  growth  rates used by companies  in their illustrations are not 
minimums or maximums and offer no form of guarantee.  The returns  achieved  may 
be less than those  illustrated
There is no guarantee that the new plan will perform better than your existing plan.
It was also explained  that the charges applied could erode his investment over time.
So, while Mr H has said he was led to believe the G60 portfolio would outperform his GPP,  
I dont think this is supported by the evidence Ive seen, which I find more  persuasive. Im 
also mindful that Mr H signed a copy of the suitability report so if hed been told in person the 
G60 portfolio would outperform his GPP, I wouldve expected him to question things with the 
adviser in light of the statements Ive quoted  above.
Overall, I think it was made clear  to Mr H that his investment  could be worth less, particularly 
if he transferred out of the plan early  and took the charges into account. I also think  it was 
made clear that there was no guarantee with regard to performance  so I dont think Mr H 
was promised better performance than his existing plan.
I know Mr H is disappointed with the performance of the G60 portfolio over the time he was 
invested in it  just over a year. Im sure that with the benefit of hindsight  he feels  it wasnt  
the right move for him. And Im aware hes since switched back  to Rs GP5.  But whilst I know  
Rs GP5 has performed  well over the time his funds were invested in the G60 portfolio, 
Goodmans adviser couldnt have predicted  this. And because  of the significant exposure to 
risk in Rs GP5, this couldve just as easily have resulted  in lower growth or losses due to 
market fluctuations.
I also think it has to be borne in mind  that Goodmans recommendation was for Mr Hs 
investment to be made over at least five years.  So, I dont think  its reasonable to compare 
growth with Mr Hs previous plan over such a short period of time. This is mostly because  
the advice fee, which  is taken directly  from the fund upon transfer, immediately reduces the 
balance of the fund. So, Mr H was unlikely to see a comparable  level of growth after just one 
year. The growth  over this time wouldve  needed  to be substantially  higher than the previous 
pension to allow the fund value to recover the amount deducted  for the initial advice. As this 
level of growth hadnt been promised to Mr H, I dont think  I can say hes been treated 
unfairly here.
Ref: DRN03432516My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0343251