K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly  advised him to invest  £66,000 in funds 
which were too risky for him in 2006.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 14 October  2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision. 
Both parties  accepted my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons previously  outlined,  I am 
satisfied this complaint  should be upheld with the compensation  as detailed.
HSBC must therefore pay compensation on the basis that Mr E should only have invested  a 
third of the total amount  he did invest i.e. he should only have invested  £2,333  in the JP 
Morgan fund and £19,666 in the Selected Investment Plan (with this money split equally 
between the three selected funds).
It should therefore compare the amounts Mr E received on two-thirds  of each investment 
when he surrendered the two products, one containing three funds,  with what  he would have 
received if he had kept this two-thirds of his money  in risk-free, interest-bearing accounts. To 
do this it should  use the returns as shown  by the monthly average of the Bank of Englands 
bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity, and apply those  rates on an annually  compounded basis.
It should factor in the withdrawals at the dates these  were made. If either  calculation  show  a 
loss, it should  add 8% simple interest per annum  to this loss from the date each investment 
was surrendered to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  HSBC  to pay compensation  as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01663872Provisional decision
complaint
Mr E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly  advised him to invest  £66,000 in funds 
which were too risky for him in 2006.
background
HSBC accepted that £7,000 had been  put in an unsuitable fund and offered compensation 
for this. But it was satisfied that the advice  to invest £59,000 in three  different funds had not 
been unreasonable.
 An investigator at this service felt Mr Es complaint should be partially upheld.
She noted that Mr E, at the time of advice, had a very modest income from state benefits. He 
had recently received a pay-out from an income  protection plan designed  to provide a 
regular income through to his retirement  and that the advisor recorded he wanted  to invest 
this to provide  an additional income.
There was no evidence  that Mr E had any investment experience  and the advisor recorded 
that he was prepared to take a low risk with his money to try and deliver a better return  than 
available via cash deposits.
It was recorded  that Mr E had around  £126,000 available so this investment, in total, 
represented just over half of his money.  That said, taking into account his planned  
expenditure of £50,000 and a desire for a £10,000  emergency fund it used  up all of his 
remaining capital.
The investigator felt Mr E was prepared  to take a low risk with this overall sum and that all 
three funds  were suitably  low risk, and therefore she didnt believe HSBC  should pay 
compensation in relation to these.  
But she noted that HSBC had offered compensation on the allegedly mis-sold £7,000 by 
comparing how much  money  Mr E would have  got if hed left this amount in risk-free 
sources. As she felt he was prepared to invest all of the £66,000 in low risk products, this 
meant HSBCs  compensation should have been  based  on this. She therefore spelt out the 
appropriate formula HSBC should use in calculating Mr Es potential loss i.e. a low risk 
returns formula.
HSBC did not agree, saying it had concluded  that Mr E had been advised to invest  too much 
of his money overall. The reason it had chosen to highlight the £7,000 investment was 
because the fund was the lowest yielding, not because it thought  that fund posed a different 
or greater  risk then the other three.  Therefore it did not accept the investigators view which 
implied it had been  okay  to recommend  that Mr E £66,000 in total;  it now accepted  that Mr E 
should only have  been advised to invest £59,000.
On this basis the investigator changed her mind,  and didnt  believe the complaint should  be 
upheld.
Ref: DRN01663873Mr Es representative did not agree, reiterating that its key complaint was that Mr E had been 
advised to invest  too much  of his money  given his specific circumstances.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
For reasons I shall outline I am satisfied that Mr E was recommended to invest far too much  
of his money given  his circumstances  and objectives. Overall, I dont think he should have 
been advised to invest more than a third of his money left available after taking account of 
his planned property expenditure and his stated  desire for a £10,000 emergency fund i.e. no 
more than £22,000 of the £66,000 that would have been available after these sums were 
factored in.
These are the key reasons:
Mr E had no investment experience and therefore no personal understanding of the 
potential for risk-based investments to fall significantly in value (even  low risk ones)
Given his specific circumstances this would have been  crucial and not a decision to 
rush into
He did not seek investment  advice but was instead approached  by a branch advisor 
shortly after receiving  his pay-out; this places a particular onus on the advisor to 
ensure Mr E fully understood the implications of putting this money at risk and fully 
appreciated the risks he was taking with his long-term income  stream
Ive seen no persuasive evidence to indicate that the advisor  met this requirement
He was just 41 and yet had no ongoing earned  income, being reliant on around  
£4,000 a year in disability benefits
He therefore  had no capacity to replace any investment losses
According to his evidence, he was still undergoing  surgical procedures  to improve  his 
health and so was adjusting to these circumstances
This meant  he may well have needed  to be reliant on this money to produce an 
income for the next 25 years, up until retirement
He therefore  could not afford to take more than a small risk with a modest amount of 
this irreplaceable lump  sum
I therefore currently intend to instruct HSBC to pay compensation on the basis that Mr E 
should only have  been advised to invest a third of the amount he did invest i.e. £2,333  in the 
JP Morgan  fund and £19,666 in the Selected Investment Plan (with this money split equally 
between the three selected funds).
It should therefore compare the amounts Mr E received on two-thirds  of each investment 
when he surrendered the two products, one containing three funds,  with what  he would have 
received if he had kept this two-thirds of his money  in risk-free, interest-bearing accounts. To 
do this it should  use the returns as shown  by the Bank of Englands bonds of 12 to 17 
months maturity. It should factor in the withdrawals at the date these were made.
If either  or both of these calculations show a loss, it should add 8% simple interest to this 
loss or losses from the date each investment was surrendered to the date of settlement of 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN01663874my provisional decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct HSBC  to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0166387