K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  Lloyds  Bank PLC closed  her current account and recorded a default  
against her when they shouldnt have.
background
Miss P had an overdraft  with Lloyds attached to her current  account.  Over the years she had 
a number of limit increases, the last of which was for £2,200. She recently had difficulty 
managing her account and wanted  to enter  into an arrangement to pay down her overdraft.
Miss P contacted Lloyds in August 2017. She told them about the difficulty she was having  
and asked them to freeze charges for a while so she could gradually  reduce her debt. She 
completed an income and expenditure which showed her to have an income surplus. The 
contact notes Lloyds  have indicate Miss P said she shares expenses with her partner. They  
also indicate Miss P wanted to discuss with her partner  a way forward about paying 
unplanned overdraft  fees.
Lloyds froze charges on Miss Ps overdraft for 35 days and refunded some returned direct  
debit fees. Miss P says she found speaking on the phone very stressful, so from then on she 
wanted to communicate in writing  only. She says she wrote to them in November 2017. In 
her letter she proposed paying  £1,000 of her balance on the condition  no further charges 
accrue and they reduce her limit each month by £50. It also said she wanted to 
communicate in writing only. Miss Ps partner says he couldve afforded to pay the lump  
sum from his savings at that time. Lloyds say theyve no record of receiving the letter.
After this, Miss P made a payment out of her account in November 2017. This took her over 
her overdraft limit. And from this point on no further  funds  were paid into the account. Lloyds 
say they sent her a letter in January 2018. The letter said if Miss P didnt pay the arrears or 
her outstanding balance the account would be closed. It also said this could  result  in a 
default being recorded. 
Miss P says she didnt  receive Lloyds letter. She says she wrote to them again in January 
2018. She again requested they consider her proposal. Lloyds say theyve no record of this 
letter either. 
In March 2018 Lloyds closed Miss Ps account and recorded a default. On discovering this 
Miss P called them. She asked them to remove the default and reopen  her account. Lloyds 
refused her request but agreed to refund £100 in fees as a gesture of good  will.
An investigator looked at Miss Ps complaint and didnt uphold  it. Unhappy with the outcome 
Miss P asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint, so the complaint was passed  to 
me. I issued  a provisional decision  in December 2018. I was inclined to uphold Miss Ps 
complaint, subject to further submissions. In summary my findings were:
-I was persuaded  Miss P had sent Lloyds letters proposing a way forward  to pay down 
her debt.  Shed provided copies of her letters and reasonable records of post being 
sent to Lloyds around the time the letters were dated.
Ref: DRN02450572-I also thought  Lloyds had sent Miss P a letter as described above. But for whatever 
reason I dont think Miss P was aware  of it; otherwise I think shed have mentioned it 
in her letter sent in January 2018.
-I didnt think Miss P not servicing her account  was a reasonable thing to do while  she 
was awaiting Lloyds  response to her letter.  She ought to have understood that not 
doing so could have negative consequences for her.
 
-I thought Lloyds shouldve acted on Miss Ps letters and engaged with her in writing 
on what she was proposing. They needed to take into account  their customers 
individual circumstances.  And in this case,  this meant communicating in a different 
way than they normally would.
-Had Lloyds done what they shouldve I thought it unlikely a default wouldve  
occurred. Miss P had a surplus of income, and her partner couldve helped pay down 
a substantial part of the overdraft. Hed provided evidence of funds available  to him 
at that time. I didnt  think a default  wouldve been  a proportionate way forward or one 
Miss P wouldve agreed to.
-I said Lloyds should remove the default and agree an affordable  and proportionate 
solution if Miss Ps current circumstances  showed one can be reached.
Since my provisional decision both parties  have provided further  submissions. Miss Ps 
partner, who is acting  as her representative to this complaint, says he is now only able to 
pay £500 off the remaining debt. He says he is still able to assist  her in paying  £50 per 
month of the outstanding balance.
Miss P would like compensation due to the distress having a default recorded  against her 
has had. She would also like to be compensated in relation to a mortgage agreement her 
and her partner entered into while the default  has been reported.  Had the default not been 
recorded, she says theyd have been offered  a repayment of £387  per month instead of the 
£587 per month agreement they entered into.
Lloyds say the repayment arrangement Miss P has entered into after her account was 
defaulted shows the only viable debt solution  wouldve still been to default  her account. She 
has currently agreed to pay £30 per month off her debt.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
Miss Ps complaint for broadly the same reasons as I outlined in my provisional  decision. 
While both parties have  provided further  considerations,  they dont substantially  alter the 
reasons for why Im upholding this complaint.
the default
I doubt a default  wouldve resulted had Lloyds acted  on Miss Ps payment proposal and got 
in touch in writing. I think Miss Ps partner did have £1000 he couldve used to bring down 
Ref: DRN02450573her balance. And I also think Miss P and her partner had enough surplus income for a 
payment arrangement to be reached. But even if one wasnt  agreed,  I doubt  theyd  have 
allowed Miss Ps account to default because of the impact this could have on her 
creditworthiness.
I acknowledge Miss P has agreed  to pay £30 per month off her balance  after the default was 
recorded. But I think the circumstances between reaching an agreement  once a default has 
been recorded and those  pertaining to when  an account is still open are quite  different. I 
dont consider £50 per month to be a token payment in relation  to the level of debt Miss P 
owes. Nor do I think the time it would take her to pay off her debt is unreasonable.  This is 
still the case even  though  Miss Ps partner  can now only pay a lump sum of £500.
further compensation
Im not recommending  Miss P receive additional  compensation.  Its possible the mortgage  
agreement she and her partner agreed  cost them more  as a result  of having a default on 
Miss Ps credit file. But I still think  Miss P ought to have understood not servicing her account 
could have negative  consequences for her
From what  Miss P says,  she couldve brought her account into order while she was awaiting 
Lloyds response.  So I dont think its reasonable to ask Lloyds to reimburse her for the 
consequential losses or stress she may have experienced as a result.
putting things right
Lloyds should  remove the default  marker against Miss Ps account. They should also accept 
Miss Ps proposal to pay at least £50 per month  off what she owes.  This is on the condition  
that £500 is first paid off the outstanding balance. 
Its important to say that Lloyds may still record this arrangement on Miss Ps credit  file and if 
Miss P doesnt keep  to it, a default may still be registered in the future. I dont think Lloyds 
should be obliged  to re-open Miss Ps account or overdraft facility.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Miss Ps complaint. I direct Lloyds to take the actions Ive 
described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2019.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02450574
Ref: DRN0245057