K820x#14Complaint
Ms J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund her for fraud  which 
occurred on her account. And she didnt receive the balance when her account was closed. 
Shed like this paid to her. 
Background
Ms J had a current account with NatWest. 
Ms Js explained that her debit card was swallowed in 2004  and she didnt receive  a 
replacement. Shes  also unhappy that there  are a large number of disputed transactions 
between 2005  and 2014 on her account which she didnt authorise and standing orders she 
didnt set up so she complained to NatWest. 
NatWest said that Ms Js account  was closed on the 23 June 2014, and any transactions  
which occurred 6 years  before they were raised theyd be unable  to look into. But they 
apologised for failing to raise  a fraud  claim in May 2018 when  Ms J visited  the branch  and 
offered her £30 in compensation.  
Ms J wasnt  happy with NatWests response  so asked our service to look into her complaint. 
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Js complaint, and concluded that the disputed  
transactions were  out of time because theyd occurred more  than 6 years before Ms J raised 
them. And therefore we dont  have  the power to investigate them,  which I appreciate will 
have come as disappointing new to Ms J. 
Our investigator also explained  that the bank didnt pay Ms J any money when the account 
was closed  as it was overdrawn.
Ms J didnt accept our investigators view. And in response said:
-Shed  lost her card in 2004 and hasnt used her account since.
-Her Mother was very unwell, which is why she wasnt on top of her finances as much 
as shed like.
-Her account details  were lost via a third party organisation in 2007.
-The bank  manager had informed her shed  be repaid her funds in a week. 
Our investigator issued  a second view, where she explained that she still thought  our service 
didnt have the power to consider most  of Ms Js complaint points. And she explained that 
she didnt believe the bank owed Ms J any funds,  because  the account  was overdrawn prior 
to closure. 
Ms J didnt accept our investigators opinion. And said she was told by a NatWest bank 
manager in June 2018 theyd refund  her money within  seven working days because  her 
account was dormant. But shes yet to receive any funds. 
As Ms J didnt accept  our investigators  opinion  its been passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and Ill explain  why below.
Ref: DRN04853692What we cant consider:
We cant usually consider a complaint which is referred to us  or the business  more than 
six years  after the event thats being  complained about. Or three years from when the 
complainant became aware  or should have been  aware  they had cause for complaint.
Ms Js said she doesnt recognise  a number of Standing Orders last paid in 2009 and a 
significant number  of transactions starting  in 2008.  The latest of the transactions occurred in 
August 2014.  But, the majority  of the transactions which Ms J disputes occurred between 
2005 and 2009. Ms J has six years from the date of the transaction to raise a complaint  if I 
was to take the transactions  which occurred in 2009  this would mean Ms J needed to bring  
her complaint to the bank, or our service,  by the end of 2015. Ms J contacted  NatWest  to 
complain about  the transactions  in May 2018. Which is over eight years for most of the 
disputed activity. 
Ms Js also complained about not receiving a new debit  card in 2004   after it was 
swallowed by an ATM. But, for the reasons  Ive outlined above for our service to have  the 
power to consider this complaint Ms J needed to make a complaint before the end of 2010.  
Which Ive no evidence  to suggest  this is the case. 
But I also need to consider when  Ms J became aware, or should  have been aware, of the 
need to complain. Ms Js explained  that she was aware she didnt receive her new card,  
when she requested in it 2004. But due to the caring responsibilities she had for her severely 
unwell Mother,  and Court proceedings she was engaged in, she was unable  to raise a 
complaint. And due to these same  extenuating  circumstances shed forgotten about her 
NatWest account by the time the disputed transactions and standing  orders occurred. So the 
first time she identified them was in 2018.  Therefore, she believes the time limits shouldnt 
apply. 
Ive thought about Ms Js points here. Ms J accepts she was aware that she didnt receive a 
replacement card in 2004   so for me to extend the time limit here Id need to be satisfied 
she was unable to raise a complaint within six years from this point. Ive also considered 
whether Ms J should have known about the standing orders  and disputed transactions  
sooner  and Im satisfied she should. I say this because Ive seen evidence  that Ms J was 
sent bank statements throughout  the time of the disputed transactions  and therefore ought 
to have known  about the account activity. 
I understand the points Ms J raised above,  and realise it was likely a difficult time for her, but 
I dont think Ms Js caring responsibilities  or Court proceedings prevented her complaining 
within the required time limits. Im afraid  that I dont think the evidence Ms Js provided is 
enough to extend the time limit here.  
I realise this will be disappointing  to Ms J but I dont think we have the power to consider this 
part of her complaint.  
Disputed Transactions and balance on closure:
There are some elements  of Ms Js complaint that I can consider. 
Ref: DRN04853693Ms J has queried two transactions which occurred in 2014  a debit for £5 on the 
2 April 2014 and a credit  for £851.64  on the 23 June 2014. And argued that she was 
informed by a NatWest bank manager the bank would send her the remaining funds in the 
account within a week of her attending the branch in May 2018. 
Our investigator asked  NatWest about the £851.74  transaction which  was credited to Ms Js 
account in June 2014. NatWest advised  that this amount was written off by the bank prior to 
the account closure in June 2014. And NatWest have also advised that the £5 payment is 
from an unpaid direct debit. As this was a charge carried out by NatWest Im unable  to say 
its unauthorised. And even if I did think the charge  was unfairly taken by the bank I wouldnt 
conclude that NatWest should refund Ms J the payment.  I say this because  in June 2014 
NatWest credited Ms Js account with £851.74  to bring her balance back  to zero. So at the 
time of the £5 charge,  Ms J owed the bank  over almost £850. 
Ive thought about what Ms Js said about  her branch visit and Ive also seen  a copy of the 
bank managers statement. In the bank managers statement, hes explained  that he advised 
Ms J that the account was dormant  and shed need to fill out a dormant account form to 
see if any funds remained. I understand that Ms J believes  she was informed  that funds 
remained in the account  and theyd be paid to her in a week. But I think  on balance,  
considering the account was closed with a zero balance, its more  likely than not that the 
branch manager  didnt  advise her of this and instead  Ms J was advised to fill out a dormant 
account form and told any funds that remained would be returned  to her. 
I realise this will be disappointing  to Ms J but Ive not seen any evidence  that NatWest  are 
holding on to her funds or have acted unfairly here.  It follows  I wont  be asking them to do 
anything further.  
My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0485369