K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined a claim 
under their home insurance  policy for accidental damage to their bath and about the way 
RSA handled  the claim.
background
Mr and Mrs P made a claim to RSA in June 2018.  They said a bath which  had only been 
installed in April 2017 had developed  a crack of about 5 to 6 cm long on the outer lip. Theyd 
contacted the manufacturer who said there wasnt a design fault.  
RSA sent a supplier  to inspect the bath and see whether the damage  could be repaired. The 
supplier reported  that there was no evidence of any impact damage and he thought  the 
most likely explanation was that the damage  had been caused during installation, when 
forcing the bath into the space. The supplier thought the crack could be repaired by applying  
a fibre glass coating to it.
Mrs P says the supplier  told them hed be sending a full report to RSA and that RSA would 
repair the damage. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to RSA.  They werent happy that RSAs supplier had looked to 
see whether the bath could be repaired  they thought  it should  be replaced. They also 
asked to see a copy of the suppliers report.  
RSA said it always looked to repair damage if possible rather than replacing the damaged 
item. It also said it hadnt had a written report from the supplier and it wouldnt be common  
practice for them to provide one.
Then a few days later RSA said there  was no accidental damage, so it declined the claim. It 
also paid £100  compensation  to Mr and Mrs P because it said it should  have  declined  their 
claim at the outset.
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator didnt uphold it. He 
thought RSA had acted  fairly in declining the claim and that the amount it had paid Mr and 
Mrs P was reasonable  to compensate them for the trouble and upset  it had caused  them.
As Mr and Mrs P didnt agree, the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first issue I need  to decide is whether RSA was entitled to decline Mr and Mrs Ps claim 
and whether that was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this case.
Mr and Mrs Ps policy covers them for accidental damage. This is defined in the policy as:
 sudden, unexpected and visible damage which  has not been caused  on purpose.
Ref: DRN08205172And like most insurance policies, this cover is subject to certain exclusions. In particular 
theres a general  exclusion  in the policy for damage caused by poor or faulty design, 
workmans hip or materials.  
The damage is certainly visible and you wouldnt expect a relatively  new bath to develop  a 
crack. But I havent seen  any evidence to persuade  me that the damage  happened 
suddenly, for example  by something  having  been dropped  on the bath. RSAs supplier said 
there was no evidence of any impact  damage. Mr and Mrs P told RSA they thought  at first it 
was a design fault and thats why they contacted the manufacturer first. 
Even if I accepted that the damage had happened suddenly,  Id still have to consider 
whether a policy exclusion applied. The only expert evidence  in this case is from RSAs 
supplier. He told RSA:
I have reviewed with our technical manager and whilst we could suggest multiple scenarios 
the most  plausible  is that the damage was caused  during installation, when forcing the bath 
into the space,  and the damage was on the rear of the lip. Over  time this could have 
worsened to the point  where the damage is now manifesting itself visibly on the front edge.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P say they had the bath installed by a professional installer.  
But, in the absence of any other expert  evidence  or likely reason for the damage,  that isnt 
enough in itself to persuade me that RSA treated them  unreasonably  by relying on its 
experts opinion  as to the most  likely cause of the damage in this case. That means in my 
opinion it was reasonable for RSA to rely on the exclusion for poor or faulty design,  
workmans hip or materials  to decline  their claim.
I agree  that RSA should have declined this claim at the outset since  there  was no indication  
from what Mr and Mrs P said that the claim was likely to be covered. I think  its likely that 
Mr and Mrs P were  given the impression  during  the visit by RSAs  supplier that their claim 
would be covered. RSA also led them to believe that in an email  when it told them it would 
consider a replacement bath if the crack couldnt be repaired satisfactorily.
But it was only eight  days later before RSA told Mr and Mrs P it was declining  their claim. 
Although this would  have  been very disappointing  for them,  overall I think the sum of £100 is 
reasonable to compensate them for the trouble and upset RSA caused them  during  this 
period.
Mr and Mrs P are also unhappy with the way RSA handled their claim. They asked RSA 
repeatedly for a copy of the suppliers  report and were told there wasnt one. Our adjudicator 
later provided Mr and Mrs P with a short document entitled Job Sheet which contained  a 
brief summary of the damage and the conclusion Ive quoted above. I dont think RSA was 
deliberately trying to mislead Mr and Mrs P by saying  there  wasnt a report. I think  what it 
meant was that there wasnt a document containing  any more  detailed information than it 
had already provided to them. 
Lastly Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the way RSA handled their data access  request. This 
isnt something I can look at as part of this complaint. They  may wish to raise this point with 
the Information Commissioners Office if they want to pursue  this further. 
Ref: DRN08205173my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 January 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0820517