K821x#15complaint
Mrs K says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1996 in connection with a store  card. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs As complaint because I dont think FICL gave her clear enough 
information about the policy. I say this because the policy wouldnt pay disability benefit in 
connection with medical conditions that the customer  knew  about when they bought  the 
policy. I think its unlikely that FICL  pointed  this out to Mrs A when  she bought the policy.
I think this would have  mattered to Mrs A because she had a medical condition which 
wouldnt have been covered. So she couldnt  have claimed on the policy for everything she 
expected to be covered.
I dont think Mrs A would  have bought the policy if shed had enough  information  about the 
policy. So, I think Mrs A has lost out because of what the business did wrong.
Ive noted what  FICL  has said about  the nature of Mrs As condition and the way in which it 
is managed. 
Im mindful that the PPI sale took place many years  ago, and I dont think its reasonable to 
expect Mrs A to provide  evidence of the severity of the condition and how it affected her at 
the point of sale. Mrs As testimony has been consistent throughout her complaint, and I 
dont think its unreasonable for me to accept what she says.
Mrs As condition  is long-term, and the symptoms can be severe if theyre  not properly 
managed. I think Mrs A wouldve had that in mind when she bought  the policy,  and on 
balance I think it wouldve affected her decision to buy the PPI. 
So I still think I should uphold the complaint.
what the business must  do to put things right
FICL should put Mrs A in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs A would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN03702232So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs A owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs A made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs A would have 
owed when she closed her account  - from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs A would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs A 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs A paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs A 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a year 
from then on.
D.FICL should tell Mrs A what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs A a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs As complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  pay Mrs A compensation in line with the 
instructions set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0370223