K821x#15complaint
Ms E and Mr A are unhappy that esure Insurance Limited hasnt carried  out repairs to their 
roof following  a fire at an adjacent property.
background
I attach a copy of the provisional decision I sent to the parties on 18 November 2020. That 
decision sets out the background to the complaint and my provisional conclusions.
Ms E and Mr A have sent me some further  comments. In summary they say:
It took esure 18 months  to properly assess the damage,  during which  time it 
repeatedly refused  to erect scaffolding. Ms E and Mr A believe the damage could 
have been assessed,  and repairs carried out, if esure had erected scaffolding to the 
rear of their property. They also dont agree that esure couldnt  use the neighbours 
scaffolding.
Even after esure accepted that it hadnt  kept them informed, and paid compensation 
in recognition of that, the situation didnt improve. They were still left to chase and to 
follow things up themselves.
They werent reluctant  to have a drone survey; they were  simply concerned  about the 
privacy implications as they live in a row of terraced  houses. As soon as these 
concerns were addressed they were  keen for the drone survey to be carried  out.
They object to me saying that they didnt  pursue  the option of esure  using the 
neighbours scaffolding in 2020. They say they simply  pointed out to esure that 
nothing had changed to make the scaffolding any safer  than when esure  first refused 
to use it. So they doubted whether this was a viable option.
They are now left in limbo as they say they are unable to move their insurance  while  
the property remains  unrepaired and they say no other  contractor will agree to do the 
work if esure  says its unsafe.
esure hasnt  responded to my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything that Ms E and Mr A have said in response  to my provisional 
decision, but I havent changed my view.  
Ms E and Mr A feel strongly that it should be possible to access and repair the damage  to 
their property, safely, if scaffolding is erected on their own property or if the neighbours 
scaffolding is used.
I dont know whether they are right or not. But even  if they are, esure isnt obliged to carry 
out those repairs.  esure  has chosen  to make a cash settlement and it is entitled to do that 
under the terms  of the policy. If it is possible to carry out the repairs safely then Ms E and Mr 
Ref: DRN09053082A may be able to find their own contractors to do that. But, as I said in my provisional 
decision, I dont  see how esure could ask its own contractors  to do the work since  both they 
and the loss adjusters consider it unsafe.
I realise this leaves Ms E and Mr A in a difficult position and that they are concerned  that 
their property might be further damaged by damp coming through the party wall. esure has 
said it will consider that if it happens. Ms E and Mr A may also have a claim  against  their 
neighbour if any further damage is his fault.  This is a complex area of law and they may want  
to take legal advice. I note that esure suggested that.
I agree  that it took too long for esure to assess the damage and finalise its cash  offer. I also 
agree that its communication was poor.  The award  of £500 compensation is to reflect  that.
my final decision
I think it was fair for esure Insurance Limited to settle this claim for cash.  If Ms E and Mr A 
want to challenge  the amount offered they should  let esure know.
esure Insurance Limited  must pay Ms E and Mr A £500 compensation for the inconvenience  
and frustration caused by its shortcomings  in handling the claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2021.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09053083complaint
Ms E and Mr A are unhappy that esure Insurance Limited hasnt carried  out repairs to their 
roof following  a fire at an adjacent property.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in detail  in our investigators  letter  to the parties 
dated 16 May 2020. I wont  repeat  everything here but will just summarise briefly the main 
issues.
Ms E and Mr A live in a four-storey  terraced  house.  In April 2018 the adjacent property was 
badly damaged by fire and part of the roof was destroyed. There  was some damage to Ms E 
and Mr As roof for which they submitted  a claim to esure.
esure accepted the claim but said that, for health  and safety reasons, it couldnt fully assess 
the damage, or carry  out any work,  until the neighbouring  property  had been  repaired. It said 
its contractors werent prepared to access Ms E and Mr As roof while the adjacent  property 
was in an unsafe condition. 
The neighbouring property was rented and the landlord, initially,  proved difficult  to contact. 
esure tried to liaise with the neighbours insurers but little progress was made and, although  
scaffolding was erected  on the neighbouring property,  no work was started.
In December 2018 Ms E and Mr A complained  to esure about the lack of progress and poor 
communication. They said they felt they were  being left to do all the running in trying to 
pursue the neighbour,  and that esure had taken no remedial action to stop their property 
from deteriorating.
esure accepted that it could have been more proactive and that it could have done more  to 
keep Ms E and Mr A informed of any developments. In recognition  of that it offered £250  
compensation and said it would ask its loss adjuster to explore  alternative ways of 
proceeding, including the possibility of using the neighbours scaffolding.
No suitable solution was found and, in March  2019,  Ms E and Mr A brought the complaint to 
us. They  said they wanted esure to repair their roof; that their insurance premium  had 
increased; and that they couldnt shop around for alternative cover  because of the 
outstanding claim.
While the complaint was with us esure  continued  to try to progress the claim. In May 2019  
esure told Ms E and Mr A that their neighbour had settled his own insurance claim for cash. 
It explained that this made it less certain  that the neighbours property would be repaired 
promptly. It suggested that Ms E and Mr A might be able to find a contractor themselves who 
would be willing to access and repair  the roof. Ms E and Mr A said they thought this was 
unlikely given the safety issues.
In July 2019 esure suggested that it arrange  a drone survey. Although Ms E and Mr A were 
initially reluctant they later agreed and the survey was carried  out in September  2019.  
From the drone  survey esure was able to identify  the extent of the damage, following which it 
offered a cash settlement. 
Ref: DRN09053084Ms E and Mr A didnt want to accept. They said they couldnt ask other  contractors to do 
work that esure  thought  was unsafe. And they said that until the neighbours roof was 
repaired they couldnt be sure there wouldnt be further damage.
In February 2020  esure wrote to Ms E and Mr A to say it might be possible to use the 
neighbours scaffolding after all, providing  certain  safety conditions could be met. Ms E and 
Mr A expressed reservations  and, in the event,  didnt pursue this option. 
Our investigator took these further developments  into account  when he wrote to esure  in 
May 2020. He said he thought esure should  carry out the work. He also said esure  should  
pay Ms E and Mr A another  £500 compensation for the upset it had caused and reimburse  
some of their insurance premium.
esure didnt  agree. It said that, under the terms of the policy, it was entitled to choose  to 
settle the claim with a cash  payment.  It also said it had offered to pay for any further 
deterioration if it was shown to be caused by the neighbours inaction.  
The matter  has now been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive only set out a summary of events in this decision, but Ive looked at all the papers  and 
Ive read the emails  exchanged between  the parties. 
Im considering reaching a slightly different a conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain why.
The difficulty  from the outset of this claim has been that both the loss adjuster and the 
roofing contractor appointed by esure said they couldnt safely access  the roof to determine  
the extent of the damage or to carry out any repairs. Whilst they thought the damage  to Ms E 
and Mr As property was minimal, probably  cosmetic, they couldnt be sure of that without a 
closer inspection. The intention was to carry out repairs once the neighbouring  property was 
made safe.
The neighbour settled his own insurance  claim for cash and I understand that he intends  to 
make alterations to the property. That work,  including making  good  the roof, hasnt yet 
started. That has left Ms E and Mr A in a difficult  position. I can understand their frustration. 
But Ms E and Mr As insurance policy covers them only for damage to their own property. 
esure cant carry out repairs to the adjoining property and it cant  force  the neighbour to do 
so either.
With that in mind Ill deal with the main issues in turn.
the outstanding repairs
Under the terms of the insurance policy esure is entitled to choose whether to repair the 
property or pay cash to enable Ms E and Mr A to have the repairs done themselves. esure 
Ref: DRN09053085chose to make a cash settlement but to do this it needed to be able to assess the extent of 
the damage.
The drone survey in September 2019 was the first time esure was able to have a close  look 
at the damage. This enabled it to produce a schedule of work and to offer a settlement 
based on that. esure said that Ms E and Mr A could show  the schedule  to independent 
contractors and that they could challenge the amount if they thought it wasnt  enough.
Ms E and Mr A would  have preferred esure  to carry out the repairs itself. But its difficult to 
see how it could ask its contractors to do that when  they, and the loss adjuster, considered it 
unsafe.
In the circumstances I think a cash settlement was probably the most practical solution esure 
could offer once  the extent of the damage  was known.  It gave Ms E and Mr A the means to 
repair their property when  it was safe to do so, and it would allow  the claim to be closed so 
that they could  look elsewhere for insurance  if they wanted to.
I understand Ms E and Mr As concern that there could be further  deterioration to their 
property from damp  coming  through the party wall. But esure  has said that it will consider 
that if it happens. 
In February 2020,  after offering the cash settlement, esure said it might  be possible to use 
the neighbours scaffolding after all, if certain safety  conditions were met. I can understand 
why Ms E and Mr A were confused by that. I think esure was probably trying to achieve what  
Ms E and Mr A wanted, but it was by no means  certain that the safety conditions could be 
met. Ms E and Mr A were  themselves doubtful about that and I think  that when they 
expressed reservations it was reasonable for esure to revert to the cash  settlement.
insurance premiums
I havent seen  anything that suggests  esure treated  Ms E and Mr A unfairly, or differently to 
other policyholders  when  setting their insurance  premium. Ms E and Mr A have made  a 
claim on their insurance and, unfortunately, that will often lead to a higher premium, whoever 
they insure with.
But I think the length of time the claim has been outstanding may have prevented Ms E and 
Mr A from changing insurers earlier and Ill bear that in mind  below.
handling the claim
esure accepted in its final response letter of January 2019  that there had been shortcomings  
in its handling  of the claim and it paid £250  compensation in recognition  of that.
A lot has happened since  that letter was sent.  Esure continued to try to move the claim 
forward but it was another six months before the drone survey was suggested.
Time was undoubtedly  lost in trying to chase the neighbour and his insurers.  But I think it 
was reasonable,  at least in the early  stages, for esure to anticipate that the neighbouring 
property would be repaired  promptly, and that Ms E and Mr As repairs could be done in 
conjunction with that. 
Ref: DRN09053086But in May 2019,  when  the neighbour settled his claim for cash, it became apparent that 
repairs might  not be carried out, or at least not for some time. 
Once that was known,  if not before, I think esure could  have been more pro-active in looking 
for alternative ways  of assessing the damage. I think it likely that drone survey could have 
been offered earlier than it was.
I also think esure could have kept Ms E and Mr A better informed and explained more  clearly 
the steps it was taking  and the limitations of its role. There were  times when Ms E and Mr A 
were left in the dark  and some of esures  communications were confusing  and added  to Ms 
E and Mr As sense  of unease and frustration. 
For instance, esure consulted its own solicitors  to see what, if anything,  could be done to 
bring pressure on the neighbour, but it didnt tell Ms E and Mr A what  the outcome was. That 
caused confusion  when it later suggested  they might  want  to consult  their own solicitors.  And 
further confusion  was caused when  esure  seemingly changed its mind, albeit conditionally, 
about using the neighbours scaffolding. 
So, whilst I acknowledge  the difficulties which esure faced, I think  it took too long, overall, to 
progress this matter. And I think if it had been clearer and more  consistent in its 
communications Ms E and Mr A would have better understood their options and the claim 
could have been concluded earlier. 
Bearing all this in mind I think the £500 additional compensation suggested by our 
investigator was fair.
my provisional decision
I think it was fair for esure Insurance Limited to settle this claim for cash.  If Ms E and Mr A 
want to challenge  the amount offered they should  let esure know.
Im minded  to require  esure Insurance Limited to pay Ms E and Mr A £500 compensation for 
the inconvenience and frustration caused by its shortcomings in handling the claim. 
Ref: DRN0905308