K820x#14complaint
Mr H says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a 
Barclaycard in 2006. Barclays Bank  Plc (Barclays) is responsible for the sale.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in October 2018, setting out why I 
thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. In this I asked both parties to provide any further 
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
Barclays says it agreed  with my decision but Mr H replied  with further points he wanted me 
to consider. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, my final decision is that I am not upholding  the complaint about  the mis-
sale. However, as I explained  in my provisional decision Barclays has already paid back  to 
Mr H some money for the commission it received from selling him the PPI.
In my provisional decision I explained  my understanding  of Mr Hs complaint. A part of this 
was based on him telling us he never  knew PPI had been applied to his credit card account. 
But he also said he wasnt  told he had an option to refuse it. Mr H has subsequently said,  in 
his reply to my provisional decision,  that he was aware of the PPI  and he said this had 
been made clear  in his original complaint.
Im afraid I dont agree with Mr H on these points.  He complained to us via a third party  
company and I note his original complaint points contained a large number of reasons why 
he thought the PPI had been  mis-sold. In his complaint  questionnaire which he signed, Mr H 
said it was recommended  I take the PPI policy, however I wasnt aware it had been added  
to my account and I was not aware PPI was an optional product and could have been 
refused. I found  these and some  of Mr Hs other  recollections somewhat contradictory 
because if hed been told the PPI was compulsory, I dont think hed have been unaware it 
had been added to his card.
Having said this, I completely understand that remembering the events of 2006 will be 
difficult for Mr H so Id like to reassure him Ive looked at his complaint with care. 
But as I explained  before,  we had been  sent a copy of his original credit card application 
form and on this I think its quite  clear that Mr H was given an option about having PPI. I say 
this because he ticked a box to confirm it was something he wanted to have and he also 
signed his name next to that selection.  
His monthly credit card statements then subsequently  showed  he was being regularly 
charged for something  called Payment Protection  Plan over an extended time period.
Ref: DRN03992952I therefore think he was given a choice. In my view, he clearly consented to the PPI policy 
and would have  known it had been  set up on his account.
Mr H also mentioned a pre-existing medical condition he suffered from and he implied this 
would have caused him problems in ever making  a successful claim on the PPI policy. But I 
explained this condition appeared to be from 1992,  some 14 years prior to the PPI sale date. 
In his reply,  Mr H said this condition continued for many more  years and so was relevant to 
his 2006 mis-sale complaint. 
I understand and sympathise with Mr Hs point regarding his health and Ive considered it in 
detail. But Im afraid it doesnt change what I think about the suitability of the cover.  
This is because Barclays sent me some of its guidance  which  its sales advisers  were  told to 
use when they were talking to consumers, like Mr H, at the time.  The guidance told the 
adviser to consider and ask questions about the health of the applicant  before selling them  
PPI. On balance, I think this was probably  done, so the rules about  pre-existing conditions 
are more likely  to have been  discussed  during the meeting. 
I also note that the PPI accident / sickness cover required the policyholder to be off work for 
at least 14 days before the sickness protection kicked in. Having  taken account  of 
everything Mr H has now told us about his health,  I dont  think  he would  have thought this 
particular medical  condition  whether it was pre-existing or not   should put him off still 
buying the PPI. This is because I dont think the medical condition would have been 
something Mr H would be expecting to cause an absence from work for that long.
Nevertheless, I gave Mr H and his representatives some further time to elaborate on his 
medical history to thoroughly check that my interpretation wasnt incorrect.  I didnt receive  
anything that changes what I think.
Overall, I think the evidence shows Mr H wanted  PPI and he would have generally benefitted 
from having all the other  forms of protection the policy offered. These included the 
unemployment cover  and medical  conditions not yet diagnosed or known  of. So I dont think  
the medical condition he mentioned is a reason to uphold his complaint.
All this means that Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint about being  mis-sold the PPI.
The evidence showed me that Mr H was given a choice on his application form and he 
specifically asked for PPI. The charges for the PPI were  then regularly showing up on his 
monthly statements. And whilst I in no way wish to minimise his medical condition, I dont 
believe it affected  or would have affected  what  he went on to do. 
Overall, I think the evidence shows Barclays didnt mis-sell this policy.
Ref: DRN03992953my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about  being  mis-sold the PPI. And I dont require Barclays 
Bank Plc to pay Mr H any more compensation . 
Barclays Bank Plc has paid some  money to Mr H for the commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I think this is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03992954copy  provisional decision
complaint
Mr H says he was mis-sold  a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a 
Barclaycard in 2006. 
background
Mr H has already been paid some money for the commission Barclays received  from selling him the 
PPI. However, our adjudicator who looked at this case  said the complaint about the PPI being mis-
sold in the first place, should also be upheld. 
Barclays disagreed  it had mis-sold  the PPI. So the complaint  has therefore been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  
Having done this, I dont  currently intend to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale. 
In his complaint  to us Mr H said he hadnt asked for the PPI and wasnt aware it had been added to 
his credit card account.
However, we know these  events  were obviously  quite a long time ago and Im afraid  I dont think  what  
Mr H remembers is correct.  I think the evidence shows he agreed to the PPI and may have since 
forgotten.
Mr H says he applied for his credit card by post. But Barclays records show it was a branch sale and 
the records  also show  which branch the sale took place  in. So on balance, I think this is more likely.  I 
can also see his application  to have the card involved a form.  The form had a section on it about  PPI. 
To get the PPI applied to the new credit card, the applicant needed to tick a box to say they wanted 
PPI and also sign their name alongside. That signature was in addition to signing to agree to the 
terms of the credit card. Mr H ticked the box and signed  the form beside  a declaration  which said I 
wish to purchase payment  protection  insurance.  So I think this shows he wanted the cover.
As well as this, Ive been shown some of Mr Hs credit card statements.  These show that on a 
monthly basis, he was being charged for something called Payment Protection  Plan.  So as well as 
asking for the PPI, I think hed have been able to see he was being regularly charged for it. So Im 
afraid I cant agree  that Mr H didnt consent  to the cover  or know he had any PPI.
Barclays said its likely the advisor at its branch recommended the PPI to Mr H when he was applying  
for his new card. This means it had a duty to ensure it was suitable  for his circumstances. Our 
adjudicator was told by Mr Hs representatives that he had a medical condition  although  they didnt  
specify what  that was. With further  investigation,  our adjudicator was told hed had a medical  problem 
in 1992, but he hadnt needed to take any time off his work because of it. Our adjudicator  thought this 
might constitute  a pre-existing condition  and therefore  be difficult to claim  for.
Ive thought very carefully about this issue and I certainly wouldnt want to imply that this medical 
episode wasnt concerning for Mr H when it happened. But it was some  14 years before the sale.  
Weve been told he did visit his doctor about the same issue much closer to the time of the sale (in 
2006). However, that was also a long time ago and I take into account that Mr Hs other recollections 
of the sale have  been  difficult for him and somewhat inaccurate.
Ref: DRN03992955Barclays sent me some of its guidance which its sales advisers were  told to use at the time when they 
were talking to consumers, like Mr H, about PPI. The guidance told the adviser to consider and ask 
questions about the health of the applicant. So I think this was probably done.  I also note that the PPI 
required the policyholder  to be off work  for 14 days before the sickness cover  kicked in. Because  Mr 
H told us hed never been  off work with this particular  medical issue,  I dont think hed have 
considered it to be a barrier  to him buying a policy  for sickness protection, generally. In short,  I think 
the cover was useful.
Because this sale was so long ago, I do understand and sympathise how remembering back  might 
present challenges. Nevertheless, Mr Hs recollections  arent consistent  because I think  he would 
have known he had the PPI; he asked for the policy  and would have been able to see he was paying 
for it. I think if he hadnt wanted it, he would  have wanted  to know why he was being charged. And I 
dont agree that there is strong enough  evidence  that his 1992 medical issue persisted until the time 
of the sale or would have caused him to act differently, had he been advised  more clearly in 2006.
I therefore  dont have reliable or comprehensive enough evidence that Mr H wouldnt have been able 
to make a successful claim on the PPI. And if this is the case, I think the policy in all other respects 
was suitable for him. I think  he was eligible  for the cover which, at 79p per £100 of the outstanding 
credit card balance,  appears to have been affordable. Mr H had some sick pay with his job, but it was 
quite moderate. On the other  hand, the PPI would have also covered unemployment,  as well as most 
sicknesses and it could have reduced his balance by 10% a month for up to a year in the event  of a 
successful claim.  I therefore  currently think  the policy  was suitable for him.
 
Which means I currently  dont think Barclays has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But it 
has already  paid back  some of the cost of the PPI to him because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and    profit  share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Barclays 
didnt tell him, that was unfair.  
To put that right,  Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
Barclays should confirm  it has paid to Mr H any commission and profit  share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.  Barclays should also have paid back to Mr H any extra interest he paid 
because of that. Barclays should also have paid Mr H 8%* simple interest if he paid off his credit card 
at some point.  I note Barclays says it has done  all these things.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently think the PPI policy  was mis-sold  so Barclays  Bank Plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays  Bank  Plc has paid to Mr H the commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium.  
I now invite  both parties to send in any further information they have by 24 November 2018.
Ref: DRN03992956
Ref: DRN0399295