K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) 
policy sold in 2009. Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland  plc (Halifax at the time) mis-sold 
them the policy.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Bank of Scotland (BoS) throughout this decision rather 
than Halifax.
background
Mr and Mrs W have  complained about  something  known  as a Total Mortgage Payment 
Protection Plan (TMPP). It included, alongside life and critical illness cover,  protection 
against accident, sickness and unemployment  (ASU)  in other words, PPI. This complaint 
only relates to the ASU.  
Unhappy with BoSs response to the complaint, Mr and Mrs W referred it to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked at it and came to the opinion that the PPI hadnt been mis-sold.
However, Mr and Mrs W disagreed. So the complaint  was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
And having done all of that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs W say that the policy was sold to them without their knowledge. They  also say 
they werent told it was optional. But they havent  told us about what happened in 2009 in 
much detail. This isnt that surprising or unreasonable as the event in question  did take place 
roughly 10 years ago. However, the length  of time since  the sale, and its effect  on the extent 
to which  recollections  prove persuasive, is something I have to consider when weighing up 
whats likely to have happened.
BoS has provided us with the following documents:
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage offer;
A letter dated 7 July 2009 setting out the parts of BoSs TMPP that Mr and Mrs W had 
chosen; and
A letter dated 14 July 2009 that confirmed BoSs TMPP had been arranged  and set out 
what it included.
Having looked  at all three of these documents, and considered what Mr and Mrs W have 
said throughout the complaint, Im satisfied that they agreed  to take the MPPI. And as the 
mortgage offer made it clear that they didnt  have to take any sort of insurance other than 
buildings insurance  (which they were free to do from any business), Im persuaded that its 
more likely they agreed knowing they didnt  have to  especially as theres nothing 
persuasive in any of the other documents to suggest otherwise.
Ref: DRN05772652BoS says that it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs W  which means  it had to make  sure 
that the policy was suitable for them. And based  on everything Ive seen, I think that it was 
suitable for them overall. They werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
cover and it looks like they had a need for it.  
I know Mr and Mrs W say that they were entitled  to some sick pay and had some savings. 
But they were responsible  for a significant and long-term financial commitment secured 
against their home. The mortgage repayments  were  important  repayments to maintain in the 
event they found themselves out of or unable to work. And as the policy would  have helped  
them to keep up with the repayments  over a reasonable  period of time in return  for a 
premium that there isnt any persuasive evidence to suggest was unaffordable,  Im not 
persuaded the recommendation  was unsuitable  especially when the policy  also provided 
them with the freedom to use their sick pay and savings elsewhere.
As well as making sure the policy was right for Mr and Mrs W, BoS also had to give them  
clear information. So thats what Ive looked at next.
Its possible the information given to Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But, for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable overall, Im not 
persuaded better information about the policy would have led them  to make a different 
decision and not take the cover.  
Ive also thought about whether BoS needs to return to Mr and Mrs W some of the 
commission they paid.  The relevant  Supreme Court  ruling and subsequent rules and 
guidance dont  apply to certain  types  of mortgage agreement  including  a regulated  
mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage  was regulated,  the rules  and guidance dont apply. 
And that means  BoS doesnt need  to refund any of the commission  Mr and Mrs W paid on 
the PPI they had with their mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0577265