K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mrs B says National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
NatWest had to make  it clear that Mrs B didnt  have to take out the PPI and she had to 
agree to take it out. Ive been given a copy of the credit  agreement completed when Mrs B 
made her application and I can see this includes a section about  PPI. A tick has been 
placed in the box to purchase  the cover and Mrs B has signed in this section  to confirm her 
selection. If Mrs B didnt want to take out the PPI she could have left this section blank. 
Mrs B has also signed the overall  application  which suggests she agreed with everything 
that had been entered.
Mrs B has said she was told taking out the insurance would mean  her application was more 
likely to be approved.  As I wasnt at the meeting I cant know for certain  what  was 
discussed. Ive thought  about what she has said but I do have to take into consideration that 
this sale took place over 12 years  ago  so recollections from such a long time ago can 
fade. And I can see from looking at the credit agreement that the insurance is described as 
optional and that it says the cover will only be included if she agreed to it by signing in the 
appropriate place.  So, without evidence to support Mrs Bs comments, Im unable  to uphold  
her complaint on this point.
So on balance, based on everything Ive seen  and been told, I think NatWest made Mrs B 
aware the policy was optional  and she chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if 
she didnt want it.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have  to make  sure Mrs B got the information she needed to decide  for herself if it 
was right for her.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. And I havent seen anything to suggest the PPI wasnt  
affordable. So, taking  all of this into account,  I dont think better information about  the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs B has told us she was suffering from medical conditions at the time of taking out the 
policy and she wasnt told that she couldnt  claim for those conditions.  But this policy  didnt 
exclude claims for pre-existing medical conditions  so Mrs B wouldnt have been prevented 
Ref: DRN07056142from making a claim if she did need  to be off work  as a result  of a condition of which she 
was already aware.
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B. 
But NatWest has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:
NatWest got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about  that. Because NatWest didnt tell Mrs B, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has told us including what she has said about not 
needing the policy. Mrs B said she would  have received six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay from her employer if she was too ill to work. But this policy  would have paid 
out for up to 12 months which would be in addition  to her sick pay and potentially for longer  
than she would have  received full pay. And it would have provided cover for the same length 
of time if she was to lose her job. Mrs B has said she had some savings she could have 
used but by having this policy  it would have enabled  her to protect those savings for another 
purpose or use them to cover other  essential living expenses. So these points dont change 
my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But National Westminster  Bank Plc does have to pay back  to Mrs B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0705614