K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that MBNA Limited  registered  a default against him. He says he wasnt 
properly notified  before his account was defaulted and he wants  the default removed from 
his credit file. 
background
Mr S was an MBNA customer. On 17 April 2018, MBNA undertook a financial review over 
the telephone with Mr S during which he provided  details of his income and outgoings.  At 
this time Mr S account was two months in arrears. 
MBNA said this review demonstrated that Mr S was experiencing financial difficulties and 
that he was unable to maintain the minimum monthly payments on his account that it 
required. This prevented it from offering him a reduced payment programme and it told him 
his account would remain subject to its default  process. MBNA recognised that Mr S wasnt  
in a position to make any payments towards the balance on his account. And it agreed to 
waive interest and fees on his account. 
Mr S thought  MBNA  had agreed  not to register a default on his account until October  2018.  
But in July 2018 it sent him a default notice after his account continued to fall into arrears.  
And in August 2018, MBNA defaulted  Mr S account  and recorded  the default  with credit 
reference agencies.  By this point, Mr S account was more than six payments in arrears.  And 
the following  month it sent him a termination letter.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this. So he complained to MBNA. He said he had been a MBNA  
customer for many years and had never  previously  defaulted. He also told MNBA hed had a 
family bereavement and had to care for another relative, which  had affected his income. He 
said this had brought challenges in his ability to maintain his account and he felt this 
shouldve been  taken into account  by MBNA.  He disputed the default  notice because he 
hadnt received  it and he felt it was unfair as it was dated prior to October  2018.  Mr S also 
thought that the termination  letter he had received had come  out of the blue.
MBNA didnt  uphold Mr S complaint. It felt the default notice had been  issued correctly and 
sent at least 30 days  before  Mr S account was defaulted. And it said it wasnt  able to 
reverse the default on Mr S account or change  the information it had reported to credit  
reference agencies.  It added that it had an obligation to report accurate factual information 
about a customers  account.
Being dissatisfied with MBNAs response Mr S referred his complaint to our service. Our 
adjudicator who looked into this matter  didnt recommend this complaint should be upheld. 
They didnt think MBNA had made an error  in registering the default on Mr S account and 
they thought it had acted  fairly.  But Mr S wasnt satisfied with this outcome and asked for his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the adjudicator. Im very sorry to hear of the difficult circumstances  Mr 
S found himself in during  2018. And I appreciate  hell be disappointed by the outcome of his 
complaint. But I hope  he can understand the reasons behind my decision.
Ref: DRN08702902Mr S feels  his account has been  unfairly  defaulted. He says he understood from MBNA  that 
he had until October 2018  before a default  would be registered. But its MBNAs policy to 
report an account as defaulted after its more than six payments in arrears. 
Ive listened to the recording of the telephone conversation Mr S had with MBNA in April 
2018. During this call he was informed that a default  would be registered once his account 
was more than six payments  in arrears and that this would remain on his credit file for up to 
six years. Im satisfied  that MBNA explained that his account was already in arrears  by two 
months. And I havent  seen any evidence that it told him the previous arrears wouldnt be 
taken into account  in calculating when to register a default. 
Ive seen a letter that Mr S was sent on the same day he spoke with MBNA, which  informed 
him a default  couldnt be prevented based  on his financial position  and that 30 days notice 
would be provided  prior to any default being registered.
At the time this letter was sent Mr S account was in already in arrears  by two payments.  
After this date I understand that Mr S didnt make any payments. So, his account continued 
to fall into arrears. By the time Mr S account  was defaulted it was more  than six payments in 
arrears. As his account remained in arrears for an extended period of time, I think  it was 
reasonable for MBNA  to issue a default here. Im also satisfied that it acted in line with its 
policy and in accordance with guidance  from The Information Commissioners Office (ICO), 
which says it would  expect a default  to be registered  by the time a consumer is six months 
behind with their payments.
Mr S feels  MBNA shouldnt have defaulted  his account because  of the emotional and 
financial difficulties he was experiencing during 2018. He said he made  numerous  calls to 
MBNA to explain his circumstances. MBNA says the first contact it had from Ms S about his 
financial difficulties was on 17 April 2018. This explains why it undertook a financial review  
on this date. 
On being made aware that Mr S was experiencing financial difficulties MBNA had a duty to 
treat him positively  and sympathetically. Treating  a customer  in difficulties positively and 
sympathetically doesnt mean a bank has to waive or freeze interest.  It can take other  action 
instead, such as reducing the interest rate or restructuring payments, although  theres no 
obligation on it do so. Ive seen contact notes  that MBNAs provided this service. And Im 
satisfied it proactively acted on the information  Mr S provided in that it waived interest and 
charges on his account. It also accepted  that Mr S wasnt in a position to offer any payments 
towards the balance  on his account. This satisfies me that MBNA did treat Mr S positively 
and sympathetically  at this time and I think it went above the steps Id expect a bank to take 
when approached by someone  in financial difficulty. 
Ive considered whether, having  decided  to default  Mr S account, MBNA  appropriately  
notified him. 
Mr S says he didnt receive  the default  notice  MNBA  says it posted to him in July 2018.  He 
says he received Septembers termination  letter and that this was the first indication that his 
account had been defaulted. So, he feels  he wasnt given adequate warning that MBNA  was 
intending to default his account. And he says hes been disadvantaged because, if he had 
received the 30 day advance  notice  he had been promised, he wouldve heeded the warning 
and paid his balance in full.
Ref: DRN08702903I havent seen  the original  default notice letter MBNA sent to Mr S. It says it doesnt have this 
anymore. But Ive seen  a template of this letter which MBNA says contains  the same  
information as the one it sent Mr S. Ive also seen system notes provided by MBNA that 
confirm that it posted the default  notice  to Mr S on 2 July 2018. 
Given the above evidence, Im persuaded that its more likely than not that a default notice 
letter was sent to Mr S. I can see that the address MBNA has recorded for Mr S matches the 
address hes provided our service. I think its most likely that MBNA would have posted any 
correspondence to this address. MBNA  hasnt  told us it received any returned mail. But I 
dont doubt Mr S when  he says he didnt receive this letter, perhaps due to issues  with the 
post. While  its very unfortunate when things get lost in the post, I dont think  it would be fair 
for me to hold MBNA responsible for that. It is not something over which  it has any control. 
As Im satisfied this letter was sent it follows that Im also satisfied that Mr S was given at 
least 30 days notice before the default  was registered. 
MBNA has touched  on the reason why it doesnt  feel able to amend the information its 
reported to credit reference agencies about Mr S account in its final response letter. But Mr 
S wants the default  information to be erased from his credit  file. 
Ive considered what both Mr S and MBNA have said here very carefully.  But Im satisfied  
that MBNA  was entitled to default Mr S account and that its reported this information  
properly. I say this because based  on what Ive seen its recorded information about the 
conduct of Mr S account  which is what wed expect  a business to do. 
I recognise that Mr S is unhappy that his credit file shows that his account was defaulted.  But 
MBNA informed him during his call with it in April 2018 that a default would be recorded with 
credit reference agencies if his account  defaulted.  Reporting information to credit  reference 
agencies is in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr S account. These terms 
clearly state "we will let credit reference agencies know you have not paid and this may 
make it more difficult to get credit."  So, Im satisfied Mr S was warned this could happen. 
Financial  businesses should make sure that the information they report  to credit reference 
agencies is accurate. As Mr S hasnt maintained his account in line with its terms and 
conditions I cant say MBNA acted unfairly and unreasonably in reporting  this information. So 
I cant ask it to remove it as its a true reflection of what happened. 
I understand Mr S concern that the default  marker will show  on his credit file for 6 years, 
which will adversely affect any future  applications for credit  that he may need to make.  But 
Mr S can add a notice of correction to his credit file if he wishes so this can be taken  into 
account with future  lending  applications.  This is a short explanatory  note to explain  the 
background to the information  thats been  recorded.  Its up to individual  lenders how they 
consider this though. 
I appreciate the reasons why Mr S brought this complaint  to our service.  And I sympathise 
with the difficulties he found himself  in. But I cant fairly find that MBNA has done anything 
wrong here and, because  of this, I wont be asking it to do any more.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN08702904Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0870290