K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Bank of Scotland plc is holding her liable for a number of cash  machine  
withdrawals made when she didnt receive  her card and PIN for a new account.  Bank  of 
Scotland plc trades in this case under its Halifax brand.  
background
On 4 March 2018 Ms B opened a new Halifax account. The banks records show  that a card 
and PIN were ordered the same  day and that the PIN was issued on 5 March and the card 
issued on 6 March.  On 9 March  Ms B paid £880  into the account. 
Ms Bs card and PIN were  then used on 12, 13 and 14 March to make  cash  machine 
withdrawals totalling  £880. There were also some  balance  enquiries and declined 
withdrawals over the same period. 
On 15 March Ms B contacted Halifax and reported  the cash machine withdrawals as 
fraudulent. Halifax investigated further  but concluded that it was likely that Ms B had been 
involved in the withdrawals herself.  It wouldnt  make  any refunds. 
Ms B referred the matter  to this service, and one of our adjudicators considered it. He 
concluded, however,  that it was unlikely that someone unknown to Ms B had intercepted 
both her card and PIN. He thought it more likely that the withdrawals  had been  made  with 
her knowledge.  
Ms B didnt accept the adjudicators view and asked that an ombudsman  review the case.          
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the adjudicator  did, and for similar reasons. 
Im satisfied that the cash machine withdrawals  were made using Ms Bs genuine  card and 
PIN. That is of course consistent with her own case, that she never received them. She says 
that someone else must have got hold of them before they could be delivered  to her home 
address. 
The banks records show, however, that the card and PIN were  sent on different days. The 
bank had Ms Bs address  correctly recorded,  so its unlikely they were sent to the wrong  
address. So, if Ms B didnt receive them,  whoever  did use them  would have had to intercept  
two different pieces of post sent on different days.  That person wouldnt have known that 
Ms B had just opened and funded a new account  or that she was expecting  a new card and 
PIN. 
Ms B has explained that she lives alone and has her own letterbox, rather than a shared 
one. So, whilst I cant completely rule out the possibility that someone was able to intercept  
her card and PIN before delivery, its not very likely. 
When she contacted  Halifax on 15 March, Ms B told the person she spoke to in the fraud  
department that shed  initially contacted the bank to say that she hadnt received her card or 
PIN. It was then that she found out theyd already been used. The bank however has no 
record of a call other  than that made  direct  to the fraud department.  It says Ms B wasnt  
Ref: DRN08391112transferred to that department as she would have been the case if the withdrawals had been  
identified in the course of a telephone call. 
Ive listened to the call that Ms B made  on 15 March.  She does say that she found out about 
the withdrawals from the bank, when she called to say she hadnt received the card or PIN. 
But the fraud department also made  full security checks. That wouldnt have been necessary 
if Ms B had already been discussing  her account and had been transferred. And I note that 
those checks revealed that Halifax had an incorrect mobile phone number for Ms B, so I 
think that would have been  identified  sooner  as well. On balance, I think Ms B called  the 
fraud department direct.  Yet she already knew about the cash  machine withdrawals, even 
though she says she had no means of checking her account. 
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that Ms Bs card and PIN were intercepted as she 
suggests. Like the adjudicator, I think its more likely that they were carried  out either by 
Ms B or with her knowledge. In the circumstances,  it wouldnt be fair to require Halifax  to 
make any refunds. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland  plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Ms Bs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  Im required 
to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0839111