K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) paid only part of his cancellation 
claim under his travel insurance policy.
References to ERV include its agent. 
background
Mr A was due to go on a holiday with his wife, Mrs A, on 17 July 2018. Mrs A was insured 
under a different travel insurance policy so this matter only relates to Mr As share of the cost 
of the holiday. Their  holiday had been booked with a company which Ill call E.
Mr A had been experiencing heavy nose  bleeds over a period of time. When  he saw an ear, 
nose and throat (ENT) consultant on 9 June 2018, the consultant recommended he have an 
operation to prevent them.
On 15 June 2018, Mr A says he was advised  by his GP that he wouldnt  be fit to fly. He says 
the ENT consultant  told him that hed write  to his GP with a diagnosis and that, until that 
point, he wasnt aware of the diagnosis, treatment or impact  on being able to travel.
Mr A cancelled his holiday  and E charged 100% of the cost of the holiday. Mr A made  a 
claim with ERV for the costs of cancellation.
ERV paid the cancellation costs  that wouldve applied if Mr A had cancelled the holiday on 9 
June 2018, the date Mr A had seen the ENT consultant. It explained  that this was the date 
on which cancellation couldve been anticipated. This came to 50% of the cost of Mr As 
share of the holiday less the policy excess of £65.
Mr A complained to ERV but it didnt uphold  his complaint so he came to our service. 
Our investigator looked into matters and thought ERV had correctly  assessed Mr As claim in 
line with the terms  and conditions of the policy. So he didnt ask ERV to do anything  more. 
Our investigator also explained  that the cancellation terms for E meant that Mr and Mrs A 
wouldve been charged 50% of the cost of the holiday for cancelling it whether  the holiday 
was cancelled on 9 June or 15 June  2018  as both were between 30-59 days  before 
departure. The 100% charge for cancelling the holiday only applied  where  written  notice was 
received by E 29 days or less before  departure. However our investigator explained that E 
wasnt a business  our service could  consider  in relation to whether it had fairly charged 
100% of the costs of the holiday  when it was cancelled. 
Mr A disagreed  he didnt feel ERV had been fair. This matter has now been passed  to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Ref: DRN09312132Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr A that I think the investigator has reached the right outcome 
here. So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
The relevant  policy term is as follows:
You must notify the carrier  or travel agent immediately that you know  the trip is to be
cancelled, or curtailed,  to minimise your loss as far as possible. If you fail to notify the 
carrier or travel agent immediately, our liability shall be restricted  to the cancellation 
charges that would have applied had such a failure  not occurred.
I think this term is clearly  set out in Mr As policy. And its a common  term found in most, if
not all, travel insurance policies on the market.
So the question  I need to consider is whether I think Mr A knew  the trip was to be cancelled  
by 9 June 2018.
The medical certificate completed by Mr As GP says the date Mr A first had a nosebleed  
was on 9 April 2018. And in answer  to the question Date on which the cancellation could 
have been anticipated the GP said it was 9 June 2018.
The letter from the consultant to Mr As GP says that the procedure was discussed  with Mr A 
along with the risks and likely  outcome.  It then goes onto say Mr A is keen to proceed  and so 
the consultant has arranged the pre-operative tests and scans and will update the GP after 
the procedure.  
I acknowledge that Mr A says he wasnt aware  of the diagnosis or impact  on his ability to 
travel until the consultant  wrote to his GP after theyd met on 9 June 2018. But neither the 
medical certificate completed  by his GP nor the letter dated 14 June 2018 from the ENT 
consultant reflect this is what is more likely to have been the case. 
Based on the medical evidence, Im satisfied  that it was at Mr As appointment with the ENT 
consultant on 9 June 2018  when he was  or shouldve reasonably been - aware that the trip 
would need to be cancelled. And so he shouldve contacted E at that point to cancel  his 
holiday in order to minimise the cancellation costs. Had he done  this, the cancellation cost 
wouldve been 50% of the cost of the holiday. But I also agree with our investigator that 50% 
of the cost of the holiday wouldve been lost even  if  as Mr A says  he didnt know  that the 
trip was to be cancelled  until 15 June 2018 and hed cancelled it at that point. So, even if I 
accepted that Mr A wasnt aware  that the trip would need to be cancelled  until 15 June  2018,  
ERV would still only be liable for 50% of the cost of the holiday. 
Its therefore fair and reasonable  for ERV to cover the cancellation costs of Mr As share  of 
the holiday as at 9 June  2018, being  50% of the cost of his holiday less the excess of £65.
I know Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome. But ERV has agreed to pay for the cost 
of the deposit,  less the policy excess and I think this is all it needs  to do. I dont think  itd be 
fair or reasonable  to ask ERV to pay for the remainder of Mr As claim in the circumstances. 
So my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to informally resolve  his dispute with 
ERV  can do for him.
Ref: DRN09312133my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold  Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0931213