K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined  to 
their claim for theft and has voided the policy for alleged breach of the fraud condition in their 
policy.
background
In October  2017 Mrs C contacted RSA as their home had been broken  into and tools were  
stolen. She advised  that Mr C needed the tools for work, he is a qualified  electrician. RSA 
advised that the tools wouldnt  be covered as they were for business purposes.  Mr C later 
clarified that he didnt  use the tools for work. Although he is an electrician, he used them for 
DIY projects.  His job was a project manager and he didnt use the tools  in that role. RSA was 
concerned about  the change in story and instructed investigators to look at the claim. Those 
investigators contacted  Mr Cs employers and, in answers to a short questionnaire, an 
employee of that company said that Mr C had a requirement to use his tools  in connection 
with his work. And that they were privately owned.
Subsequently that employee  emailed  the investigators to explain  that Mr C is sometimes  
required to use a tape measure as part of his job. She said she had classed  a tape 
measure as a tool he doesnt use drills, screwdrivers etc.
The investigators thought that Mrs C and the employee, when initially answering its 
questions, had given the correct version of events. They felt that Mr C had altered the usage  
to fit the cover. As a result RSA declined the claim and avoided the policy from the date of 
the claim.  It said Mr C was in breach of the fraud condition in the policy. 
Some time later, when  Mr C attempted  to buy car insurance,  he found that the voidance had 
been registered against his name.  Mr C contacted this service.  This was more  than six 
months after the date of RSAs final response  letter about its finding of fraud,  but it agreed to 
us considering the complaint.
After speaking to our investigator  Mr C obtained a letter from the director  of his employer. 
That confirmed that Mr C was employed  as a project manager at the relevant time and that 
the only hand tools he required were a tape or electronic  measure to carry out surveys. RSA 
said that this evidence came some  time after its final response and that it would be willing to 
look at it again.  But it said that this service  should consider whether, in light of the evidence it 
had at the time of its final response , its position  was fair and reasonable.
In light of that our investigator said that RSAs  position, concerning the claim at the time of its 
final response, was reasonable.
The matter  was passed to me for further consideration. I advised that I thought it reasonable 
to consider the new evidence and asked RSA for its views on the new evidence.  It 
responded that its view on the claim remained the same.  However it didnt think  it was fair 
and reasonable for me to consider this new evidence.  
I issued a provisional decision. I said it should  consider the new evidence. I further said that I 
didnt think the evidence RSA put forward is enough for me to say that Mr Cs claim was 
most likely fraudulent. So I said that RSA should  reinstate  Mr and Mrs Cs policy  for the year 
in question, and reconsider their claim. It should  also remove any record of voidance  of the 
Ref: DRN07874232policy. I further said it should repay the difference in premiums, if Mr and Mrs C obtained 
home insurance at a higher rate. And that it should pay £100  compensation.
Mr and Mrs C accepted  my provisional decision.
RSA hasnt responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
There is a general condition in the policy that says:
If dishonesty or exaggeration is used by your family  or anyone  acting on behalf  of you and 
your family to obtain:
A claims  payment under your policy; or
Cover for which you do not qualify;  or
Cover at a reduced premium.
All benefits under this policy will be lost, the policy may be invalid, you may not be entitled to 
a refund of premium  and legal action may be taken against you.
The allegation here is that, on learning  items used for his trade or profession werent 
covered, Mr C dishonestly changed his claim  to say that the tools stolen werent used  in the 
course of his professional work. This was despite Mrs C saying in the initial  claim call that 
they were and his employers also saying  this.
To show that Mr C was in breach of the above policy  term we consider that RSA should  be 
able to provide  strong evidence that it is most  likely that the dishonest change  of the claim 
occurred. I wont make a finding  that Mr C was or wasnt dishonest  I have  to consider on 
the evidence whether  RSAs position was reasonable.
When Mrs C made  the initial claim over the phone she was asked with  your husbands 
power tools, what were  they used for, his personal  use or business?  She replied "Both for 
home and work". She was asked  that Mr C worked as and she replied  electrician.
RSA advised that the claim didnt cover any business tools. Mr C replied that he used  the 
tools for DIY, and that none  of them were used for business. Its investigator  then made 
enquiries of Mr Cs employer. It was given the following responses by an employee,  who 
didnt supply a job title (Mr C has said shes a receptionist): 
If he has or has ever had any requirement  to use any tools  in connection with his work  
[Answer] Yes.
If these tools are supplied  by [the company]  or are privately owned  [Answer] privately 
owned.
Ref: DRN07874233Based on those answers and Mrs Cs initial phone call, RSA came  to the view that Mr C had 
dishonestly altered his claim to fit the cover. In doing so it ignored  a later email from the 
employee who had given the above  answers, which  clarified  that Mr C didnt use power tools 
in the course of his job, but only used  a tape measure which she had classed as a tool. Mr C 
also said that Mrs C was under stress when she made the claim call and hadnt meant to say 
he used the tools  at his place of work.
Now I come to the new evidence and whether it is fair for me to look at it. First of all its 
reasonable to look at cases  holistically  and not regard the cut-off  point of the final response 
letter to be set in stone. To be clear the new evidence doesnt equate to a new complaint 
and we always have  to consider whether it is reasonable to look at new evidence (which  
RSA has had for nearly a year now).  Ive noted  that RSAs investigators  had the names of 
three contacts at Mr Cs employers, one of whom was the director who supplied  the new 
evidence. There was some doubt about the answers  to the questions,  Mr C says they were 
given by a receptionist  who didnt know what he did. As the receptionists evidence  was 
unclear and it had the name  of the director, I think it would have been reasonable for the 
investigators to approach  that director at the time to clarify the responses.  So, if RSA had 
carried out a reasonable  investigation,  the new  evidence could have  been  available to it 
when it decided on the claim.
That evidence confirms  that, at the time Mr C was employed as a project manager, his job 
didnt require him to use any tools, save for a tape or electronic measure. The director 
supplied a list of his duties, none  of which required the use of tools.
I think RSA acted reasonably in querying the position and in investigating the claim 
thoroughly. Some of the tools  Mr C claimed for were specialist  electricians tools, but he was 
a qualified electrician. But I dont think the evidence RSA put forward  is enough  for me to say 
that Mr C was most likely  fraudulent. Whatever  Mrs C may have said in the initial  claims call, 
its clear that Mr Cs job project  manager   wasnt one in which  he was required to use any 
tools (save  for a tape measure). And I dont think its investigators followed things up properly 
after the employee effectively withdrew her previous answer  about  Mr Cs use of tools at 
work. 
So, I think that, if Mr C still wants to pursue his claim, RSA should  reinstate the policy for the 
policy year in question,  and reconsider his claim.  If he doesnt want  to pursue the claim RSA 
should still reinstate  the policy, at least up until the March  2019 renewal. If Mr and Mrs C 
obtained alternative insurance in the meantime,  RSA should mark the policy  as cancelled by 
the customer from the date of the new insurance.  It should remove  any finding that Mr and 
Mrs Cs policy was voided for fraud from its own and any other  databases.
Mr C has mentioned difficulty  in finding insurance. If my final decision remains  the same 
once RSA takes the appropriate action he shouldnt have that difficulty. He hasnt said 
whether he has paid for any new household  insurance. If he has, then RSA should refund to 
Mr and Mrs C the difference  between  the premium it would have charged for similar cover 
for the policy years from March 2018  to date without the fraud marker, and the premiums 
actually charged  to Mr and Mrs C. It should add interest at 8% on any such  refunds. 
I should emphasise that if I they want me to consider this, in response to this provisional 
decision, Mr and Mrs C should  be prepared to supply any information  about any new home 
insurance policies  they may have obtained.
I further think that RSA should pay £100  for the inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN07874234As neither party has responded  with any further comments, my provisional  findings, as set 
out above are now final and form part of this final decision.
With regard to any new home insurance Mr and Mrs C may have  had to buy, they havent 
supplied any information to us about this. So if they did buy new home insurance and they 
want RSA to pay the difference, as Ive proposed,  they must supply evidence to RSA of the 
premiums paid for any new policy they bought  for the policy years 2018-19 and 2019-20.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to:
reinstate Mr and Mrs Cs policy  for the policy year in question and (if Mr and Mrs C still 
wish to pursue it) reconsider their claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy.
if Mr and Mrs C obtained new insurance  in the meantime, mark the 2017-18 policy as 
being cancelled  by the customer (after  the date of the claim). It should  then refund any 
premiums in this case on a pro rata basis together with interest* at 8% from the date the 
premium was paid until repayment.
in any event, remove any finding that Mr and Mrs Cs policy  was voided for fraud from its 
own and any other  database.
on receipt of documentary evidence of the premiums from Mr and Mrs C, pay the 
difference between  the premiums it would have  charged them for the policy years 2018-
19 and 2019-20 and the actual cost to Mr and Mrs C for any new policy  (if lower) 
together with interest*  at 8% from the date each premium became due until repayment.
pay Mr and Mrs C £100 compensation.
* Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc is required by HM Revenue  and Customs to deduct  tax 
from any interest paid. Should  Mr and Mrs C request it, RSA should provide them with a 
certificate showing how much tax has been  taken off so that, if appropriate, they can reclaim 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 April 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0787423