K820x#14complaint and background
Mrs B says National  Westminster Bank  Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy. She took it out when she applied for a credit card in 2006. It gave her accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.  
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Mrs B disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
In my provisional decision (which forms part of this final decision)  I set out why I wasnt 
planning to uphold the complaint. I asked Mrs B and NatWest to let me have any more 
information by 13 June 2019  before I made a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our approach to complaints about the 
sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Mrs Bs representative acknowledged receipt  of my provisional decision but provided no 
further information or comment. NatWest responded saying it had no further  information  to 
add. So it follows I have  no reason to change  the findings or outcome I set out in my 
provisional decision
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN05964742copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs B says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
Mrs B took out PPI at the same time as she applied  for a credit card in 2006. It gave her accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover. 
The adjudicator didnt uphold  Mrs Bs complaint.  Mrs B disagreed so the complaint  was passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence  is incomplete or contradictory (as some of it is 
here), I have based my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, on what  I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed it here.
Im currently  not planning to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs B says she applied for the credit  card over the phone. NatWest cant  confirm  how the PPI policy 
was sold, but the credit  card application form notes  the channel indicator as Telephony Sales. So I 
think its likely there was a phone call, as Mrs B says. But so many years later there are no records of 
it, meaning I cant know what was discussed about PPI, if anything.  So Ive looked at the application 
form she signed for the card,  as the best available evidence of what  was said about  PPI.
NatWest had to make  clear  the PPI was optional and Mrs B had to agree to take it out, before 
NatWest could add it to her card account. When Mrs B brought  her complaint to us she said she was 
pressured into having  PPI and it was implied without it there would  be no credit. She said she was 
falsely led to believe  it was a mandatory product.  
But in response to the adjudicators opinion, she said her credit card agreement shows she put a 
cross in the PPI box, by which  she meant she did not want  the PPI. To me this would show she knew 
she could decline PPI. So, understandably  after so long, there is some  inconsistency within  her 
recollections.
The first page of the credit  card application  form and credit agreement  suggests  Mrs B didnt initially 
want PPI, having answered no to the question Would you like Payment Protection?.  This 
information is printed and I think its likely  its the result of a sales phone call for the credit card that 
took place before  the form was sent to Mrs B. This isnt consistent with Mrs Bs claim she was 
pressured into taking it out, as it seems she had declined PPI on the call. 
On the fifth page of the form Mrs B has crossed the box labelled I wish to purchase Payment  
Protection. She says this was to indicate she didnt want PPI. Thats possible. But I think its likely she 
would have left the box blank if she didnt want the cover. And below  the box she signed, separately 
from where she signed the overall  application, to confirm  I understand that I am purchasing the 
product(s) ticked above  and it clearly states  under the signature box Optional Insurance   you will 
NOT be covered unless you tick and sign above. So I think the most  likely explanation is that at the 
point of deciding to go ahead with the credit card agreement, and signing  to agree to its terms, Mrs B 
opted to add PPI to her account  even though she used a cross, rather  than a tick, in the box to do 
so. 
Ref: DRN05964743There is also an instruction  in larger, bold font on page two of the form that reminded Mrs B Please  
confirm your address details and sign the Credit Card Agreement and, if you are taking out optional 
insurance, sign the consent  box on page  5 of 5 .  I think this supports my view that its most  likely 
she would have left the consent box blank  if she hadnt wanted  the cover,  rather  than signing  her 
name there. And Ive found nothing in any section of the form that I think  could reasonably have led 
her to believe  it was mandatory.  
So, on balance,  I currently think that NatWest made it clear the PPI was optional and its most likely  
Mrs B decided to take it out, knowing she had a choice.
Mrs B says NatWest recommended the PPI to her. NatWest disagrees. Ive seen no evidence that it 
reviewed her circumstances and then advised  her to take out PPI, so I think its most  likely it didnt 
make a recommendation to Mrs B. This means it didnt  have to check  if the PPI was suitable  for her. It 
was up to Mrs B to decide whether the policy was right for her bearing  in mind her ability to make her 
credit card repayments if she was unable to work or lost her job. 
Its possible NatWest didnt give Mrs B all the information about the PPI that she needed before she 
made her decision. But it seems Mrs B chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover.  She wasnt affected  by any of the main exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. Mrs B says she was entitled  to one weeks full sick 
pay and then the statutory  allowance, but the PPI would  have paid out in addition to this and for up to 
12 months. Shes said she didnt have any savings or other means of making  the repayments, if she 
wasnt working.  And she could cancel  the PPI without  further cost if her situation changed  or she no 
longer wanted it. 
So, overall,  based on what I know  about  her circumstances and the terms of the PPI policy, I dont 
think Mrs B wouldve made a different  decision if better information had been provided. 
This means  NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI. But NatWest has                                                          
already paid back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
NatWest got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so 
it should  have told Mrs B about that. Because NatWest didnt tell Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
I currently dont think the PPI policy  was mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc will not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But if I go ahead and decide not to uphold  this complaint National Westminster Bank Plc should  still 
pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. I understand  it has already  done this, so I wouldnt be awarding any further compensation. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0596474