K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about esure  Insurance  Limited. They  werent happy about  
the way it dealt with a claim  under  their motor insurance policy.
background
I considered this complaint and outlined my thoughts and the background to this case in my 
provisional decision as follows;
Mr and Mrs B made a claim under their car insurance policy and their car was written  off. 
They wanted  to keep the car and get it repaired and esure initially agreed. Mr B looked to get 
estimates for the repair  of his car but had to look at repairing the car himself due to spiralling 
costs.
Mr B stripped the car and commenced work on it and bought  specialist equipment before 
esure made it clear  that it would only pay once the repairs were completed. As this wasnt 
viable, as Mr B needed the costs up front, esure reverted  back  to its original offer of the 
market value of the car. esure said it wouldnt pay cash-in-lieu  because  of the level of 
structural damage sustained and the fact that it wanted the car professionally repaired.
Mr and Mrs B were  also unhappy about a number of issues  surrounding how the claim was 
dealt with including;  the time taken to recover the car; delays in returning the salvage to 
Mr and Mrs B; and additional damage to a wheel rim on the car. esure offered £100 
compensation in relation to these  issues.
But Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy  so they complained  to this service. Our adjudicator  
looked into things  for them and partially upheld their complaint. He thought that its offer of 
compensation for the issues surrounding the claim was fair. However, he thought  that esure 
didnt deal with the settlement of his claim very well or manage his expectations about the 
settlement of his claim. It left Mr B thinking  that he could  repair  the car himself and that 
payment would be made before work was commenced.
The adjudicator eventually decided that the fair thing to do was for esure to pay Mr and 
Mrs B the market value  of their car. And to pay them  £500 compensation for the significant 
trouble and upset  caused. This was because Mr B had bought  specialist equipment to fix the 
car, started  to strip the car and shopped around for parts for the car before esure made it 
clear to him that it wouldnt pay a cash-in-lieu payment.
As both sides didnt agree the matter  was passed  to me for review. I considered all the 
evidence and arguments in detail and said;
my provisional findings
As both sides seem  to agree that the overall  handling of the claim (recovery  and return  of the 
car amongst other things) wasnt very good.  And that £100 compensation seems  a fair 
amount of compensation to reflect the inconvenience caused,  I dont propose to go over the 
detail again here. Ill simply concentrate on the main unresolved issue  the settlement of the 
claim after the car was written off and the compensation level for the poor service  provided. 
Mr and Mrs B were  under the impression they could have a cash-in-lieu settlement allowing 
them to repair the car themselves. This was important to Mr and Mrs B as there was 
Ref: DRN05431752outstanding finance on the car. Through the conversations around  this with esure Mr B 
formed the view that he was able to undertake most of the repairs  himself. He started to 
research this, bought a car cover and specialist tools in order  to repair his car which was 
understandable as he was expecting to be able to fix the car.
But esure went on to decide that it wouldnt pay Mr B before he gained invoices for the work. 
esure needed to ensure that the car had been  professionally repaired.  This was because  the 
car had been  deemed a Category S structural write  off and would have to be professionally 
repaired before  returning  the car to the road. So esure wasnt prepared to pay Mr B a cash-
in-lieu payment  in order for him to repair it without the appropriate  supporting invoices. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Bs frustration  here as the calls between them and esure didnt 
make this position clear. But that doesnt mean that esure should make  a cash-in-lieu 
payment now. It wants to act responsibly and ensure that the car is repaired professionally 
which is reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances.  Indeed, having listened to the 
calls I think its engineer  was just trying to help Mr B throughout  his discussions with him. And 
initially it was believed  that Mr B would be able to get a garage to do the repair work and it 
was only after the car was delivered and inspected that this position  changed.
So, although  Mr and Mrs B would still like a cash-in-lieu payment I think that it is fair to pay 
the market value of the car in line with the policy terms and conditions, plus 8% interest. This 
will allow Mr and Mrs B to buy a replacement car after settling any outstanding  finance. And 
if they want to retain the salvage  and have the car professionally repaired (as it is a Category 
S salvage car) then they can also do that which seems more  than fair.
Turning to the level of compensation I can see that esure believe that its offer of 
compensation (£50) was fair in the circumstances. But I agree with our adjudicator that this 
doesnt take account of the additional stress  and inconvenience  caused to Mr and Mrs B. I 
say this as they were  led to believe that they could repair the car themselves and started to 
buy specialist tools, parts and to strip the car. And I dont  think  £50 compensation for this is 
sufficient especially as they have been left with a partly stripped car on their path. 
esure is making the argument that it hasnt had chance to consider all of this during the 
complaint process.  But I think Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have faced the further  stress,  worry 
and inconvenience  had the position been  made to clear to Mr B in the first instance. Mr B 
certainly wouldnt have  started stripping the car and buying  parts  if he was told that he 
wouldnt be paid cash-in-lieu. And even if esure  didnt have all the detail about  the specialist 
parts and cover at the time it offered £50 it was certainly aware that hed stripped the car and 
had it dismantled on his path. So its offer of £50 was clearly insufficient.
Furthermore, esure says it is happy to pay the additional costs  Mr and Mrs B incurred (such 
as the specialist tools and car cover) now. But only as a gesture of goodwill unless it is 
offered the opportunity to reinvestigate the complaint. But I think  that this would only 
increase the level of stress Mr and Mrs B have already been subjected  to, so I dont  think  
that this would be fair and, as I outlined earlier, its initial  offer of compensation was low.
Finally, Im aware  that Mr and Mrs B feel that the compensation level suggested by the 
adjudicator should be increased.  They highlight that theyve had to pay the car loan 
throughout this time and theyve had to drive around in their second car. While I can 
understand all of this has been stressful, but they couldve accepted  the market value of the 
car originally  or at any time since. And if they had carried on repairing the car themselves 
Ref: DRN05431753they still would have had to pay the loan in any event so I dont think  it would be fair to ask 
esure to pay this. 
Ultimately, I think  it is fair for esure  to pay Mr and Mrs B the market value of the car in line 
with the policy terms and conditions. It should also pay £500 for the clear  stress and 
inconvenience this has all caused  Mr and Mrs B. As they have shopped for specialist parts,  
started stripping  the car and been inconvenienced  by the lack of clear  advice during the 
early settlement of this claim. esure should  also look to pay any costs that theyve incurred 
(subject to reasonable evidence and receipts). And if Mr and Mrs B want to retain  the 
salvage the cost of the salvage  should be deducted  from any settlement  I note that esure 
says it has reduced its retention figure for the salvage as a matter  of good will but I think that 
was just part of the negotiation process.  So, as that has already been  agreed between the 
parties I dont think it would be fair to bring that into the compensation.  
replies
Both sides responded to the provisional  decision and made further representations.
Mr B felt that he couldnt have agreed a settlement offer in part as the complaint was still 
ongoing and was specifically about how the claim was going to be settled. Furthermore, he 
thought that the only way that they would have  still incurred additional finance under his 
finance agreement  for the car was if the settlement had been for cash-in-lieu.
While esure  felt that the addition of 8% simple  interest was unfair as it tried to settle the 
matter in the first instance and said that a lot of the delay was while  the complaint was under 
investigation. And, although  it accepted  that £50 was too low a compensation figure it felt 
that £500 was too high. This was because it felt Mr and Mrs Bs stress and inconvenience 
caused by the miscommunication was only for a period of less than a month and suggest 
that £150 to £200 is a more acceptable level of compensation.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments afresh to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I wish to reassure both Mr and Mrs B and esure that I have taken their further 
representations into account in making my decision and I do understand the potential 
consequences and difficulties Mr and Mrs B face. 
Although I can understand esures position about  paying a higher level of compensation and 
the 8% simple interest  Im not intending  to change  it. This is because  Ive already considered 
these two issues fully in making my provisional  decision. Although  the miscommunication 
level was for a relatively short  period  of time the consequences have lasted a long period  of 
time. Mr B bought parts  ready for the settlement and stripped the car which  has sat on his 
path unrepaired  and the miscommunication, however well intended, caused this. So I think  
£500 is fair in the circumstances. And in relation to the 8% simple interest this is our 
standard and long established approach. Mr and Mrs B have been without settlement for this 
period of time. And faced  financial  costs themselves and payments throughout which  they 
wouldnt have faced  had the matter been dealt with properly and clearly in the first instance.
In relation to the further points Mr B raised  I think had esure have explained  the position 
clearly at the beginning then he would  have been able to move on. In effect  he wouldve had 
Ref: DRN05431754to accept the market  value of his car or arrange  finances to pay for the repair  of his car 
(which he can still choose to do). He wouldnt have had the option  of the cash-in-lieu 
payment that he wants. But he still couldve chosen  to get his car repaired himself and 
wouldve incurred interest on his outstanding finance and had to make his instalments. 
So, having  considered the matter in full again  Im still partly  upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint in part. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr and Mrs B the market value of their car plus 8% simple interest from the date 
of claim until the date of payment,
pay Mr and Mrs B £500 compensation for the clear stress and inconvenience  faced, 
and
pay (subject to Mr and Mrs B providing receipts and invoices)  the costs  incurred  in 
buying specialist  tools, parts and a car cover.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0543175