K821x#15complaint
Mrs c complains about issues  shes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited  (SMF).
background
In December 2017 Mrs C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase  
agreement with SMF.
In September  2018 the car broke down and was recovered to a garage who diagnosed a 
major oil leak and low coolant. The crankshaft oil seal and the coolant hose were  replaced, 
including the thermostat housing.
In November 2018 the car went into the garage  for repairs to the brakes. The garage  found 
that the wheel bolts  were  damaged and replaced all 4 wheels and a rear tyre. 
Shortly after collecting the car Mrs C noticed a warning light. She took the car to another 
garage that diagnosed  a head gasket  fault and advised Mrs C that the car needed a new 
engine.
Mrs C complained to SMF. SMF  arranged an independent inspection in February  2019.  The 
report concluded that there was no evidence of overheating  before September  2018.
Mrs C hasnt been able to drive the car since November 2018 because she cant afford a 
new engine. She wants  to reject the car.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She thought that given the limited  mileage covered 
since the point  of supply and taking  into account the comments in the independent 
inspection report that the engine had been exposed to coolant loss and excess heat for a 
long period of time, it was more likely that the issue had been  developing at the point  of 
supply. The investigator recommended  that SMF should pay for necessary repairs.
SMF didnt agree. It said there was no evidence that the fault had been  present at the point 
of supply and queried why the issue hadnt  been  picked up when the repairs were carried  
out in September 2018. It also said the independent  inspection  report  had concluded that the 
car wouldve been fit for purpose at the point of supply. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because SMF has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied  term 
that it is of satisfactory  quality. Cars  are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard  that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking  into account  all of the relevant circumstances such 
as (amongst other things) the age and mileage of the car, the price paid, freedom from minor 
defects , safety and durability. I would expect a second hand car to have a degree of wear 
and tear. So in order  to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply  due to an inherent defect rather  than general  
wear and tear.
Ref: DRN02733812Mrs C and SMF disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In order  to 
reach a decision,  I need to look at all of the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mrs C has said that she first experienced issues with the car in September  2018.  Under  the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015, where  a fault arises in the first 6 months, theres a presumption 
that the fault was present  or developing at the point of supply unless the business can show  
otherwise. After 6 months, the burden  of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to 
show that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
I can see that the car was diagnosed with an oil leak and low coolant in September  2018. 
The crankshaft  rotary seal was replaced and the cooling system was checked  for leaks.  The 
coolant hose and thermostat housing was replaced. At this point the car had covered 
approximately 3,750 miles since the point of supply.
Mrs C next experienced  a warning light approximately  6 weeks later. A different garage 
diagnosed an overheating and head gasket  fault.
An independent inspection can help in deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality.  In 
this case, the inspection  found that the cylinder  head was warped and that an excessive  
amount of coolant  additive was present in the thermostat housing  area. It said it was likely  
that the car had been exposed to immense heat and that due to the distortion of the cylinder  
head a new engine would need  to be fitted.  The report concluded that there was no 
evidence of overheating before September 2018  and that the car wouldve been fit for 
purpose at the point  of supply.
Ive carefully considered  the independent inspection report. Although it says that the car 
wouldve been fit for purpose  at the point  of supply, it also says that if the coolant  wasnt 
topped up with additive when the previous repairs were carried  out or by Mrs C herself, then 
this confirmed that the additive was added prior at the point of supply meaning that a coolant 
concern was present at that time.
Ive looked at the available information  from the garage which carried  out the repair  in 
September 2018. I can see that it found  that the coolant was low and added half a litre of 
coolant, but theres nothing to suggest  that it put additive into the cooling system. Theres  no 
evidence that Mrs C put additive in herself. The RAC report dated September  2018 says that 
no fault codes  were stored in the car, so I dont  think its likely that Mrs C drove  the car in 
spite of any warning lights or wouldve been  prompted in any way that the coolant  was low 
prior to the point  when the car broke down.
The car broke down  outside of the first 6 months  so its up to Mrs C to show  that the fault 
was present or developing  at the point of supply. As Ive said above, I think the balance  of 
evidence suggests  that the additive  found  in the system was added  prior to the point of 
supply, which indicates a pre existing coolant  issue. Generally Id expect  a fault of this type 
to present itself sooner. But in this case, I can see that Mrs C has covered very low mileage 
in the car since the point of supply,  so Im persuaded that the fault took longer than usual to 
present itself.
When considering  whether  a car is of satisfactory quality, theres  an expectation that it will 
be free from major faults for a reasonable period of time. I dont think  a reasonable person 
would expect to experience overheating  issues  and replace the engine after only a few 
months and less than 4000 miles on a car which has relatively low mileage anyway.
Ref: DRN02733813Given that the car broke  down  again less than 2 months after it was repaired,  I dont  think  
the repair fixed the fault. Ive considered whether  Mrs C should initially have taken the car 
back to the supplying dealer for repairs. However,  in this case, Mrs C acquired the car 
through a broker  and didnt have a relationship with the supplying  dealer. Im satisfied that 
the garage she took the car to was a reputable  garage, which is in line with her obligations 
under the agreement.
Ive taken account of the points raised by SMF with regards  to why the fault wasnt  identified  
in September  2018 by the garage  that carried out repairs. Based on what Ive seen, the 
garage identified  an overheating issue and replaced parts  in an attempt to resolve this. But I 
dont think the garage  identified  the full extent of the issue and it seems  more likely that 
despite the attempted repairs the original fault remained, leading to the car overheating 
again after a short time.
Taking everything into consideration, Im of the view that there was a fault with the engine  
cooling system  which was either  present or developing at the point of supply. I wouldnt 
expect a fault of this nature on a car of this age and mileage.  Because  of this I dont  think  the 
car is of satisfactory quality and I would expect SMF  to put things right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Specialist  Motor  Finance Limited must:
Arrange for the car to be collected  and repaired  at no cost to Mrs C,
Refund the cost of repairs  in September 2018  (£661.60),
Refund Mrs Cs monthly  payment from November  2018 to the date when the repairs  
have been completed  to reflect Mrs Cs loss of use of the car,
Pay compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0273381