K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has refused to pay his claim under his 
renters (contents) insurance  for accidental  damage  to his computer and that it has cancelled  
his policy  and alleged  he was in breach of the fraud  condition in his policy.
background
In early February 2019 Mr A rang UKI to make a claim  in respect  of a tablet and laptop which 
he said hed accidentally stood on. Subsequently  he withdrew the claim as he said he had 
disposed of the laptop and it wasnt worth just claiming for the tablet.  A couple of weeks  later 
he rang again to make  a claim, this time for his desktop PC. He said that it had just stopped 
working. He indicated that there  was no accidental  damage,  it hadnt been dropped and 
there was no water  damage or anything  like that. UKI explained to him that the policy  didnt 
cover mechanical or electrical breakdown. He asked if UKI would  inspect the PC    the 
claims handler advised Mr A that he could obtain  a cause of damage  report,  but Mr A didnt 
think he should pay for that.
After the claims handler explained to him what cover there was under the policy Mr A then 
said the PC was water  damaged.  He said that in the initial claim for the laptop/tablet, he had 
spilt a cup of coffee over the PC. He hadnt  thought to mention it at the time as the PC still 
appeared to be working until recently.
Subsequently Mr A contacted UKI again and told it that hed opened up the PC to clean it 
and accidentally dropped the keyboard down the back of it, damaging the motherboard.
After reviewing the claim UKI said that Mr A was in breach of the fraud condition in the policy 
whereby UKI wouldnt pay a claim that is in any way fraudulent, false  or exaggerated.. It 
said that he had changed his account of the incident  when he was told the claim wasnt  
covered for mechanical breakdown. Relying on the same term in the policy  UKI said it was 
cancelling Mr As policy from the date he reported the claim for the PC and wouldnt be 
paying the claim. It also said his details  would be shared with fraud prevention agencies.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that UKI had acted reasonably..
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has said that Mr A is in breach of the fraud condition in his policy which  is as follows:
Fraud
You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times.
We will not pay a claim that is in any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated.
If you, any person  insured under this policy or anyone acting on your behalf attempts to 
deceive us or knowingly makes  a fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim:
your policy  may be cancelled
we may reject  your claim and any subsequent claims
Ref: DRN02193182we may keep any premium you have  paid.
and:
We have the right to cancel any other products  you hold with us and share information 
about your behaviour with other  organisations to prevent further  fraud.
I have to decide whether UKI acted  reasonably  in saying  Mr A  had breached the fraud   
term. It is a serious matter to accuse  a policyholder of acting fraudulently,  as the cancellation  
of the policy  and the reason for it would normally be required to be disclosed to any 
prospective future insurer. In addition  the details are put on a database which  is shared by 
insurers.
Its been alleged  here that the claim was made  fraudulently  or exaggerated so as to fit the 
cover under the policy (when it was clear  that it wouldnt otherwise be covered).To  show  that 
we consider that insurers should be able to provide strong evidence that it is most likely that 
this has occurred. The evidence in this case is contained in several phone calls between  
Mr A and UKI.
In the first phone call Mr A made a claim for a laptop and tablet which  he said hed 
accidentally stood on. He made no mention of the coffee spilling  on his PC at the time, 
though if he thought it hadnt been  damaged this may have been  understandable.
In the second  phone call Mr A said that his PC had stopped working. He confirmed that there  
hadnt been any water  damage, it hadnt been  dropped or anything. He was told there was 
no cover  for mechanical breakdown. He was clearly annoyed about this and asked what  the 
policy was for? He was advised that he could obtain a cause of damage  report but he said 
he didnt want to pay for that. When the claims handler explained what  the policy covered, 
Mr A said he was now saying the PC was water damaged, and that it had happened  at the 
time of the first claim.
In a further phone call Mr A said that his PC had been damaged  further when hed been 
cleaning it out and he dropped the keyboard into it.
UKI said that the fraud  condition  had been  breached because Mr A had given inconsistent 
accounts of what  had happened  to his PC. It pointed to the fact that in the second call Mr A 
didnt raise the water damage until he had been  told that his claim wasnt  covered from the 
account hed given. And from listening  to that call it does appear to me that Mr A didnt 
suggest that the PC had been water damaged until he realised it wouldnt be covered.  He 
had been given the opportunity to say if it had been damaged and he said it hadn't and in 
particular that it hadnt  been water damaged. I dont think theres any significance in whether  
it was coffee or water  Mr A raised  that later.
Mr A set out a further cause of damage  in a subsequent telephone  call when he dropped the 
keyboard in the PC. Whilst that may have happened  I can understand in the light of his 
previous change of story that UKI viewed that sceptically.
I think from my consideration  of the calls that UKI was justified in believing that Mr A most 
likely fraudulently altered  his claim in order to bring it under the policy  cover. So I think that 
UKI acted  reasonably  under the policy terms to cancel the policy from the date of the claim 
for the PC.
Ref: DRN02193183Im sorry  that this has affected  Mr As ability to obtain insurance, but I cant justify requiring  
UKI to take any different  position. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0219318