K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about instalment loans  he took with Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending 
Stream). He says he was provided with a number  of unaffordable loans. 
background
Mr R was given thirteen instalment loans between August  2018  and October  2018  by 
Lending Stream. Our adjudicator thought  Lending  Stream hadnt done  anything wrong when 
providing Mr R with his first three loans. But she didnt think  that Lending Stream  should 
have provided  loans four to thirteen to Mr R. So she partially upheld Mr Rs complaint.
Lending Stream accepted our adjudicators view. But Mr R disagreed. He thought his 
complaint about  loans  one to three should  also have been upheld.  And he also thought that 
the outstanding balance  on loans  five, ten, eleven, twelve  and thirteen  should be written  off. 
As Mr R disagreed with our adjudicator, the case was passed  for an ombudsmans  decision. 
As both parties already  agree Mr R shouldnt have been given loans four to thirteen this 
decision is only looking at whether Mr R should have been provided with loans one to three 
and whether what Lending  Stream has already agreed to do in relation to loans four to 
thirteen is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about all of this, I think that what Lending Stream  has already 
agreed to do put things  right for Mr R is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case. So I dont  think Lending Stream has treated Mr R unfairly or that hes entitled  to a 
capital write-off.
Loans one to three
I think it might be helpful for me to explain that when lending money to a consumer a lender 
should take proportionate steps to check a consumer will be able to repay  what theyre 
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely  impacting  on their financial situation.  
A lender should gather enough  information  so that it can make  an informed decision on the 
lending. 
The guidance and rules dont set out compulsory checks but they do list a number of things  
a lender might wish to take into account before agreeing  to lend. But any checks need  to be 
proportionate and should take into account a number of things, including  things such  as how 
much is being lent and when whats being  borrowed is due to be repaid.  
Lending Stream says it relied on what Mr R said about having a monthly disposable income 
which was enough  to comfortably make these  repayments. It says that it also carried out 
credit checks, which didnt show anything to suggest it shouldnt have lent. Based on all of 
this it thought it was reasonable  to provide  loans  one, two and three to Mr R. On the other  
hand, Mr R says his credit  file shows that he was at the maximum of his existing accounts.
Ref: DRN08235762Ive carefully thought  about what Mr R and Lending Stream have said.  
Its important to note that when Mr R applied for his first three loans, he had no previous 
borrowing history with Lending Stream. And I cant see anything to suggest that Lending  
Stream had reason to question the information  Mr R had provided. I know  that Mr Rs actual 
financial position wasnt reflected in the information  provided and I also know Mr R was at 
the limit on most of his existing borrowing. But when a lender carries out a credit check  the 
information it sees doesnt provide the same  level of detail that a consumers entire credit file 
will. So I dont think that Lending Stream would have been aware of the extent of Mr Rs 
existing indebtedness   only Mr R himself was aware of this and he chose not to disclose it. 
Taking all of this together, I dont think Mr Rs lending history  or pattern of borrowing meant 
that Lending Stream shouldve done more  to verify Mr Rs declarations or that it shouldnt 
have lent to Mr R. The information Mr R provided suggested he could sustainably  meet  the 
repayments for these  loans. Lending Stream reasonably relied on this information and given 
the amount of the repayments involved,  I dont think that it was unreasonable for it to do this 
 especially  as there wasnt anything obvious,  in the information it had, to suggest  Mr R 
wouldnt be able to repay what he was borrowing. 
So overall, I think that the checks  Lending  Stream carried out before giving Mr R loans one 
two and three were  proportionate bearing  in mind all the circumstances. And having carefully 
thought about everything,  Im not upholding the complaint about these loans. 
Why I think what Lending Stream  has offered to do to put things right for loans four to 
thirteen is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case
Mr R is also unhappy that Lending Stream is going  to use the compensation for the loans he 
shouldnt have been given to reduce his outstanding balance  on loans five, ten, eleven,  
twelve and thirteen. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr Rs said.
I think that it might help for me to start by explaining that where a business  accepts  (or we 
decide) it did something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position 
they would  be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal  world,  wed tell a business 
to put a consumer  in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the loan they 
shouldnt have. But Mr R was given  these loans and he used the funds.  
So its simply not possible to put Mr R in the position  he would be in if he hadnt been  given 
these loans in the first place. And we have to look at what  else we can do to put things right 
in a way thats  fair to all parties.  In reality its the (increasing)  interest  and charges on these 
loans, on the complaints  that are upheld,  thats  the main  consequence  of the business giving 
a consumer a loan it shouldnt have. 
As a result where a lender provided  a consumer with credit it shouldnt  have, wed expect it 
to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any interest and 
charges on that loan.  This means wed normally expect a lender  to refund the interest  and 
charges added to any loan that shouldnt have been  given. 
And if those  interest  and charges  were paid also add 8% simple  interest  per year.  The lender 
will normally  also remove  adverse information   rather  than all reference to the loan - 
recorded on the consumers credit file as a result  of the interest and charges on those loans. 
Ref: DRN08235763And given  the consumer  will have had and used the funds wed usually expect the funds 
borrowed to be repaid. 
That said,  we look at cases individually and on their own merits. So while we have a general 
approach to how we how we might  tell a lender to put things right where it provided credit it 
shouldnt have (such  as here), we can tell it to do something different if theres a strong 
reason to say thats what would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances.  Mr R 
says I should  tell Lending Stream  to do something  different here.  He says I should tell it to 
write off his outstanding balance and also pay him the compensation. Ive carefully  thought 
about what Mr R has said. 
There may be circumstances where it would  be right for me to tell a business to write off an 
outstanding debt. But Mr R hasnt provided  me with any arguments  on why the specific  
circumstances of his case mean  that it would be fair and reasonable for me to depart from 
our usual approach.  All hes done is made reference to a scheme that the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)  agreed  with a completely different  lender.  And I dont think  that the FCA 
scheme Mr R has referred to is relevant in this case.  
So, in the absence of any specific arguments  on why it would be unfair and unreasonable  for 
Lending Stream to recover the capital Mr R was lent and which he spent, Im satisfied that 
its fair and reasonable for Mr R to pay it back.  And as Mr R owes  this outstanding balance  
(made up of the unpaid capital for loans five, ten, eleven, twelve  and thirteen), Im also 
satisfied that its fair and reasonable  for Lending  Stream to reduce the amount Mr R owes  in 
the way that it has proposed to.
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that what Lending Stream has 
already agreed  to do is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances  of Mr Rs case.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think what Gain Credit LLC has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr R is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0823576