K820x#14complaint
Miss G says Barclays  Bank UK PLC, trading as Egg, mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss G applied  for a credit card with Egg in 2001. At the same time,  PPI was added  to the 
credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Miss G disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Miss Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Before adding the policy, Egg had to make it clear  to Miss G that it was optional.  She says 
both that she was unaware  PPI had been added and also that she believed  she had to have 
it if she wanted the credit card. Im satisfied Miss G applied for the credit  card online, so Ive 
looked at the screens I believe shed have seen and completed during the application 
process. These included  a section on PPI. The section included  boxes to click depending on 
whether she wanted  PPI and the type of cover she favoured,  and an equally prominent one 
to click on if she didnt  want PPI at all. Eggs internal records  of the application indicate she 
chose to have  PPI. 
So I think Egg made it clear that it was selling PPI, that it was optional  and that Miss G 
agreed to have it, knowing she had a choice.  But, given  that was in 2001, its understandable 
that she might not remember this now.
The parties agree that Egg didnt  recommend  the PPI to Miss G. This means Egg didnt  have 
to look into whether it was right for her. But it should  have  provided enough information 
about the PPI for Miss G to make up her own mind  as to whether  it was right for her.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think Egg made  all the information  Miss G needed clear to her. 
But I must also go on to consider what difference that made to Miss G. I dont think better  
information would have stopped her from buying  the PPI because: 
Based  on what I know of Miss Gs circumstances at the time, she was eligible for the 
cover. And while the PPI had certain  exclusions to, or limits on, the cover  I cant see 
that she was affected by them.  
Ref: DRN04579302Miss G says she cant remember what sickness benefits shed have received from 
her employer and that she didnt have  any other  means of meeting  her card 
repayments if she wasnt working. The PPI benefits, on the other hand, would have 
paid out on top of any sick pay shed  have received and for up to 12 months  per 
claim. It covered her for unemployment  too. Overall, I think Miss G would have 
valued the security the PPI provided.
Theres nothing to suggest shed have considered the monthly  premium  to be 
unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible enough that Miss G could have cancelled  it at 
any time, and at no extra cost, if she no longer wanted it.
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss G.
But Egg will pay back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Miss G about  that. Because Egg didnt tell Miss G, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Eggs basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers  fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Egg has to pay back any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Egg should also pay back any extra interest 
Miss G paid because of that.
Egg should re-work the credit card account  and pay back the difference  between what  
Miss G owes  and what she would have owed if the commission and profit share  it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Egg should also pay 8%* simple interest if she paid off 
her credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss G can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
I understand Miss Gs subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement  (IVA). Her Insolvency 
Practitioner (IP) says they have an interest in any refund Miss G might receive. Miss G and 
Barclays should bear in mind Miss Gs obligations to her IP in respect of any redress thats 
paid.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss G.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Ref: DRN04579303Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0457930