K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to him alongside a credit card. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Through his solicitor,  Mr F 
disagreed with that view. So the matter  has been  passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr F, but I havent  upheld this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Mr F told us that he thought hed bought this PPI policy over the telephone in 2002. 
However, from the paperwork Tesco sent to us, I think that he applied  for PPI at the same  
time as he applied for his credit card. And I can see from the form that the application was 
made by post.   With that in mind,  I think Mr F would have been able to complete  that form in 
his own time and at his own pace. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr F would have known  this PPI policy was 
optional and he didnt  have to buy it if he didnt want it. From the application form, I can see 
that PPI is dealt with in a section headed Extra  Optional Services .  So I think  Mr F would 
have known the insurance was an additional  service and that he could have applied for the 
card without it. 
Mr F has signed  and dated  a box to indicate he wanted PPI. But hes left the box for another 
optional financial product blank. That suggests to me that Mr F has considered his options  
and decided he wanted to take the PPI policy and refuse the other product. Ultimately, I think 
he chose to buy PPI. 
Tesco didnt  advise  Mr F to buy this cover. But it still had to make  sure he had enough 
information to decide for himself whether the policy  was a good fit for his needs.  That 
information had to be fair, clear and not misleading.  
I think the information on the application  form is limited. For example, its not clear that Mr F 
would have to pay interest  on his premiums if he didnt repay his credit card balance every 
month. I dont think the costs are set out clearly. 
So the question  for me now is whether Mr F would have acted differently if Tesco  had given 
him more  or better information  about the cover.  To help me decide what hes likely to have 
done, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought  about what 
Mr F told us about his personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if hed had to make  a PPI claim, 10% of Mr Fs credit card balance  would have  
been repaid up to a maximum of 12 months for each  claim. Mr F told us that he would have 
Ref: DRN09720822received six months  full pay and six months  half pay if he was unwell. So it follows that I 
think the PPI would have paid out for longer  than his full sick pay would have lasted. 
I turn now to consider what Mr F told us about  his savings. In his initial  response to our 
adjudicator, Mr F said he had the equivalent  of six months salary in an instant savings 
account which he had immediate access to. Our adjudicator made  some  further enquiries 
about this and Mr F told us he couldnt  tell us exactly how much  his savings were. Our 
adjudicator enquired again. He noted the representatives response to be that the six months 
savings figure constituted  some savings and family support. 
I appreciate it is difficult to remember precisely  what level of savings were held almost  20 
years ago when this policy was sold. But I do note the inconsistency  in stating that six 
months worth of savings  were held in an instant access account and then that those  savings 
included an element of family support. I dont think I can reliably say that Mr F had access 
to savings that were  the equivalent of six months of his salary. 
As to family support,  I dont doubt it would have  been the intention of Mr Fs family members 
to help him if he ran into financial difficulties.  But circumstances can change and theres no 
guarantee that help would have been  available as and when Mr F needed  it. 
On balance, I think the PPI probably  offered Mr F cover over and above the means  he 
already had in place.  
Mr F told us that he was in good  health at the time he took this cover out. So I dont think  
hed have been affected by any of the exclusions relating  to medical  conditions.  And I 
havent seen anything unusual about his employment circumstances that would  have 
stopped him from making a successful claim if he needed to. 
Overall, I think the PPI could have  been helpful if Mr F was out of work. And I think he chose 
to buy this policy  so it looks as though he wanted this type of cover. Ultimately I dont think  
hed have acted  differently  if Tesco  had told him everything it should have done.  It follows 
that I havent upheld this complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I dont require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to take any 
further action. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0972082