K822xcomplaint
Mr C complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) charged him the policy  excess  
from his home emergency policy to repair  some  damage that a previous  BGI engineer  had 
caused while doing work under the same policy. 
background 
Mr C said that BGI sent a plumber to fix some  bath taps. That plumber flooded Mr Cs 
bathroom, and the water went  into his kitchen below. He booked an electrician to visit Mr Cs 
house to inspect the kitchen lights and electrical  appliances. But Mr C said that BGI then 
treated this visit as a new claim, and sent him an invoice for his policy  excess. 
Mr C said that he complained about  this, and wrote and emailed BGI, but it kept sending  him 
demands for payment. He said he was threatened with debt collection  action,  or a county 
court judgment. He said that he eventually paid the £50 that BGI was asking for, to stop 
things getting  worse. 
BGI accepted that its first engineer had caused the damage that its second engineer visited  
to repair, and said that it shouldnt have charged  the policy excess in these circumstances.  It 
said that it would waive the invoice, and paid Mr C £25 in compensation.
Mr C said that he hadnt cashed BGIs cheque for £25, and he said it hadnt  paid him back  
the policy excess of £50 he had paid it.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said that he thought that BGI couldve acted more 
reasonably in this situation. But he also thought  that Mr C couldve resolved the issue  at the 
time by calling the number on BGIs  letters. So he said that he thought that BGI should pay 
Mr C £100 in compensation. 
Mr C wrote to ask if BGI had yet returned  the £50 excess  that hed paid, because of BGIs 
threats of court action. Our investigator said that BGI had said this would be waived. But 
Mr C said that BGI had cashed his cheque, and hadnt sent this money back. 
Our investigator spoke  to BGI, and BGI said it would pay the money  back  straight  away.  But 
Mr C said it hadnt done that. He said he had checked our services  approach  to 
compensation, and he wanted somewhere between £500 and £2,000 in compensation for 
this complaint. 
Because Mr C didnt agree with our investigator,  this case  was passed  to me for a final 
decision. BGI contacted us to confirm  that the excess Mr C paid had been refunded.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Mr C had home emergency cover with BGI. Theres an excess  of £50 payable  on this 
policy. But BGI accepted that some work it did under  Mr Cs policy caused further 
damage, and it shouldnt  have  charged him a policy excess for repairs  to that damage.  
Ref: DRN03546932-Mr C said he wrote to BGI to complain, but it kept sending  demands for payment. I 
wasnt clear if BGI received Mr Cs first correspondence about this. But the dates of 
letters Id seen  show BGI continued  to pressure Mr C for payment, after it had received 
his complaint. 
-Our investigator said that Mr C couldve rung BGI to try to stop the letters demanding 
payment. I thought  that, as BGI was at fault here, and as it had separately entirely 
accepted that, the onus was on BGI to stop sending Mr C payment demands,  at least  
once it had received  his complaint.  
-I also noted that when BGI finally dealt with Mr Cs complaint, it said it would  waive the 
excess. But Mr C had paid this excess, and BGI didnt return that until repeatedly 
prompted by our service  to do so.
-So I thought  that BGI should  pay a little more than the £100 that our investigator 
suggested. I noted that when  he suggested that, he had been told that BGI had dealt  
with Mr Cs complaint and waived the invoice, but he wasnt  aware that BGI hadnt 
returned Mr Cs excess payment.
-But I didnt agree with Mr C that BGI should  pay Mr C around £2,000. I didnt agree with 
his suggestion  that this case  was comparable to examples of cases  provided by our 
service, where awards have  fallen into this range.  I appreciated  that Mr C was 
inconvenienced, and I also understood that he was upset and concerned to receive 
threats of court action and debt collection.  But I noted that none of those threats  were  
acted upon. And aside  from the understandable upset to Mr C, which Id taken into 
account, there was no wider  impact of these actions that Mr C had made us aware of. 
-Considering  all of the evidence  in this case, I thought  that an award  of £150 would 
provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.  
-I appreciated that this might be disappointing to Mr C, as hed pressed  for a much higher  
award, but I didnt  think that it would be fair and reasonable, or consistent with awards Id 
made in other cases, for me to award £2,000 in this case.
-BGI told us that it sent Mr C a cheque for £25. I didnt know  whether hed cashed  this. 
And it told us it had paid him back the excess of £50. Mr C hadnt confirmed he had 
received this. So I said Id make  sure that my award required BGI to pay a total of £150  
in compensation,  and to refund the £50 excess Mr C paid. BGI could count towards this 
award the amount of £25 it offered in compensation if Mr C had cashed that cheque,  and 
it could count the refund of £50 excess if it had paid that to Mr C.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
BGI said it would agree  to the increased compensation. Mr C wrote to object, and sent us 
further evidence  he wanted me to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr C wanted me to award more compensation. He said that a low amount would only be a 
gentle slap on the wrist which wouldnt act as a deterrent to BGI in future. But our service 
Ref: DRN03546933doesnt have any powers to award  amounts which are intended to act either as a 
punishment or a deterrent to the business. We can only take into account the effect of any 
mistakes on the complainant. So I cant make BGI pay more  to Mr C now,  to try to stop it 
from doing the same to someone else in future.  
Mr C also said that he hadnt cashed  the cheque for £25 that BGI had issued. He sent us 
that cheque, and said that he thought this would now be out of date. I think  thats quite likely. 
When I proposed the provisional award, I wasnt clear that Mr C had cashed this cheque, or 
that he would now be able to. So the award  I suggested would, in these circumstances, 
require BGI to include the £25 in its future payment. 
Mr C said that, more  importantly, BGI still hadnt  refunded the excess  hed paid. And even 
though hed already paid this excess,  Mr C said that BGI was still harassing him for the 
payment. 
I said when I wrote my provisional decision that Mr C hadnt confirmed hed received a 
payment from BGI. I thought then it was possible that this payment would not be received.  
So I drafted  the provisional decision to require BGI to make  this payment as part of the 
award I make, if it hadnt already done so. 
I dont think I should  make a higher award of compensation now,  because Mr C hasnt 
received this refund. As Ive explained, I did have this possibility in mind when I wrote my 
provisional decision.
I didnt anticipate that BGI would still be asking Mr C to make  a payment for this excess. He 
says it is still pursuing him for the money.  Im not sure it is pursuing  him for money for this 
particular job, because  the invoices he has sent us arent clearly  for the date that this work 
was done. In fact, they seem to show dates  for work which  are after Mr C told us hed 
cancelled his policy.
Ive thought about whether I should  now pause  this case, and get BGI to confirm that it is no 
longer seeking  to recover an excess that Mr C has told us hes already paid, and that BGI 
accepts he never really owed. But I think there are practical reasons why I shouldnt do that. 
BGI may be better placed to resolve this issue as a whole, once it has a decision from our 
service. And I dont think that I should  delay paying  Mr C the £150 Ive proposed,  in order to 
consider a new issue. Im also not clear, from what Mr C has sent us, whether Mr C is being  
asked to pay for the excess for this work,  or for other work. The dates on the invoices dont 
make that clear.  
So, instead, Ill go ahead with the provisional decision Ive proposed.  I hope that will resolve 
the issue about payment for an excess that Mr C doesnt owe, and I think its likely to do so. 
But if, following this, Mr C continues to receive requests from BGI to pay an excess that he 
doesnt think he owes, then he can complain to BGI, and ultimately to our service,  about 
that.
my final decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to tell British  Gas Insurance  Limited to pay Mr C a 
total of £150 in compensation,  and to refund the £50 excess  he has paid. British Gas 
Insurance Limited can count towards  this award  the amount of £25 it offered in 
compensation, if Mr C has cashed  the cheque, and it can count the refund of £50 excess  it 
told our service it had made,  if it has paid that to Mr C.
Ref: DRN03546934Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0354693