K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold Mr and Mrs S payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1991. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Mr and Mrs S have  said they didnt know they had signed for PPI when they took out their 
mortgage. However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude that B&B acted unfairly in this way, 
by not giving them a true choice, unless there was reasonable  supporting evidence. Where  
someone has said another  person  or organisation has done  something wrong, fairness  
requires that the person making the allegation  should present evidence that this probably did 
happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do something, especially 
when it was such a long time ago. 
I have looked  at the application form. The section about PPI is quite faint, but I can see that 
there are handwritten  answers  to questions about  health, and knowledge  of future  
unemployment; and there is a handwritten  account  of how much  each person should be 
covered. And the amount that Mr S and Mrs S would  each be entitled to (known  as the 
benefit split) was different, which suggests  theres likely to have  been  some discussion 
about it. 
Im conscious that this all happened about 27 years  ago, and I wouldnt  expect  someone  to 
be able to recall everything  that happened  so long ago. And, although I cant  be certain, this 
does all suggest that B&B discussed the PPI with Mr and Mrs S, but that they now dont 
remember.
Overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without 
Mr and Mrs Ss informed  consent. 
I dont think B&B recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S as being particularly suited to their 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It 
would have been for Mr and Mrs S to decide whether it was suitable. But even if it had made 
a recommendation,  I think it would  probably have been an appropriate  one in their 
circumstances at the time. Finding  yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits  at the same time as Mr and Mrs S received 
any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would  have  paid unemployment benefits 
in addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have put off the time when they would need  
to fall back on any savings or other means they may have had for paying the mortgage and 
other living costs. This all would have  put Mr and Mrs S in a more secure position, if theyd 
Ref: DRN00913802eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been told 
anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out.
Its hard to know how fully B&B explained all the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely  that full and clear information about this would have affected whether 
Mr and Mrs S took the PPI. I say this because the potential benefits  would have  paid out on 
top of Mr and Mrs Ss employer benefits  and put off when theyd have to fall back on the 
other means  they had of paying  their living expenses. Also this was covering something  as 
important as a mortgage.  So, overall, I dont think better and clearer information is likely to 
have made  a difference. 
Its possible B&B didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs S would have been  affected  by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 January  2020. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0091380