K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc has failed to trace an account  he opened in 1993  
which he believes has savings in it. 
background
Mr B opened  an investment account  with Abbey National in 1993.  The account used a 
passbook to record details of transactions. 
The passbook was recently found  and shows a balance of £2,967.02 was in the account  
following a withdrawal in August  1994. Mr A asked  Santander to trace  the account but it 
wasnt able to do so. Santander explained that it hadnt found any records to show the 
account was still open. Santander  also said that the absence  of any record meant the 
investment account  was likely closed more  than six years ago. Finally,  Santander  advised  
that the account couldve been used without presenting  the passbook. That means it was 
possible for the account to be closed without it being recorded in the passbook.  
Mr A complained but Santander didnt agree itd made an error  so he referred  the complaint 
to this service. An adjudicator look at whatd happened but thought it was likely the account 
had been closed more than six years  before Mr A asked Santander to complete a search. As 
the adjudicator  thought Santander had dealt with Mr As complaint fairly they didnt ask it to 
do anything else. Mr A has asked for his complaint  to be appealed so its been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the adjudicators assessment Mr A said he thinks  Santander  should  be in a 
position to provide direct evidence that his account was closed. I understand Mr As 
concerns but unfortunately banks  dont have to retain information about old accounts 
indefinitely and in this case Santanders  explained that it generally only keeps this 
information for around six years.  That means,  accepting Santander did close the account  
more than six years ago, there wouldnt necessarily be any record  remaining now. 
I need to decide whether the absence of any record of closure means  the account remains  
open or if it means  the account was closed and the records deleted.  In this case, 
Santanders completed searches of its systems using  the different addresses  Mr As 
provided. Its given us an extensive  list of accounts and products Mr A holds or has held with 
the bank going back several years. But the investment account in question isnt shown. 
Its clear Santander has a detailed record of the accounts Mr A has held but the investment 
account isnt amongst  them. While  I appreciate why Mr A would like conclusive evidence  that 
he closed his investment  account, Im satisfied that if the account  had remained open  it 
wouldve been located by Santander.  The absence  of a record of the account beyond  the 
passbook Mr As supplied  indicates it was closed  over six years ago and the information  has 
been deleted. 
Where theres no direct  evidence  Ill base  my decision on the balance  of probabilities. That 
is, what I consider most likely to have  happened  in light of the available  evidence. In this 
Ref: DRN03304152case, for the reasons Ive given above,  on balance  Im not persuaded that the investment 
account remains open. As Ive said, I think its more likely than not that the account was 
closed. 
I would also add that whilst passbooks are normally used to record transactions  banks will 
allow customers access to their accounts  without them. As a result, sometimes  passbooks 
dont always contain  up to date information  about transactions.  In this case, I think its more  
likely than not that Mr As account was closed in the absence of his passbook  which  is why 
its not been recorded there.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr A, but for the reasons Ive given above I havent found  Santanders  
made an error when  is says his investment account  was closed. As a result, Im not telling 
Santander to take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject  my decision 
before 7 March  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0330415