K820x#14Complaint
Mr A and Miss B complain about the way Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) handled 
payment arrangements  they made to repay their overdraft. 
Background
Mr A and Miss B had a Halifax bank account  with an overdraft. On 10 January 2018  Mr A 
called Halifax and asked  for some  help. Halifax and ran through  an income and expenditure 
assessment. Halifax agreed a payment  arrangement to pay £100 for the next three  months 
to reduce the overdraft debt. 
Mr A spoke with Halifax again on 3 April 2018 as previous £100 payment that was due 
hadnt been made. Halifax agreed a new payment plan for three months  starting from 
1 May 2018.  A temporary overdraft limit of £1,800 was agreed.  
On 30 July 2018 Mr A spoke with Halifax again  and wanted to agree a new payment 
arrangement. Mr A wanted  to pay £50 for the next three months.  The collections team didnt 
agree the plan as it wouldnt have repaid the total outstanding debt and Mr A spoke with a 
complaint handler.  The complaint handler said a third arrangement wasnt  possible and that 
the next step would  be to default the account unless Mr A and Miss B could clear the 
balance in full. Mr A didnt  think that was fair and made a number of requests to escalate  his 
call to another member  of staff. During  the call, Halifaxs complaint handler  put Mr A on hold 
against his request. 
Halifax responded to Mr A and Miss Bs complaint on 2 August 2018 but said it wasnt  able 
to agree a new payment arrangement at the levels they were  able to pay. Halifax also said 
that it didnt appear  that Mr A could afford a more  expensive payment arrangement based on 
the information hed provided. 
As no payment arrangement was agreed the account closed and has been  defaulted  by 
Halifax. Mr A and Miss B referred their complaint  to our service and it was passed to an 
investigator. The investigator agreed  that Halifaxs complaint handler could have dealt with 
the call better but didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr A asked to appeal  so his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr A wanted to repay  the overdraft in instalments to avoid a default on his and 
Miss Bs credit files. He told Halifax he wanted to apply for a mortgage and was concerned 
about the impact  of adverse credit  on his chances. But the payment arrangements Halifax  
agreed werent meant to be a long term way to deal with the overdraft.  So I think it was 
reasonable for Halifax to revisit the payment arrangement every few months and consider 
whether to continue  it. 
Ref: DRN05810872In response to the investigator Mr A says he thought the payment arrangements  would 
continue until hed fully repaid the debt and that Halifax misled him. But Ive listened  to the 
calls Mr A had when  agreeing payment arrangements and I didnt hear anyone  say that the 
plans could continue  until the balance was £0. Ive also reviewed all the letters  Halifax sent 
to Mr A and Miss B but havent found  anything  to indicate they were misled.  Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr A but I havent been persuaded that Halifax told him the payment 
arrangements would continue as a long term measure. 
Halifax says its policy is to only allow arrangements of this nature three times in a nine 
month period.  Mr A and Miss Bs account  had already been subject to two arrangements  that 
ended in July 2018. As a result, the following  arrangement would have needed  to be 
sufficient to repay the remaining  balance. But when Mr A spoke with Halifax  on 30 July 2018 
he asked to pay £50 instead of £100 as he was having trouble maintaining  that level of 
payment. Whilst I completely understand Mr As wish to avoid any adverse credit,  Im 
satisfied Halifax was entitled to take the decision not to agree another payment arrangement  
with him on 30 July 2018. Based on the information Mr A gave Halifax, a payment plan that 
could have repaid the full balance over the following three months wasnt  affordable so 
couldnt be approved. Im sorry to disappoint  Mr A and Miss B but I dont agree Halifax acted 
unfairly when it declined a third payment  arrangement  on 30 July 2018. 
Ive listened to all Mr As calls with Halifax in relation to this account since  10 January  2018, 
including the two calls with the complaint handler on 30 July 2018. Mr A says that the 
complaint handler  was rude and unprofessional.  I understand Mr As point and why hes 
upset with how the call was handled. I agree there were points were the complaint manager 
could have done a better  job. But, I think its fair to note the exchange became heated  on 
both sides and Mr A didnt always allow the complaint handler to finish  what he was saying 
or respond  to questions  he was asked. I dont think putting Mr A on hold while  he was 
speaking was the best way to handle the situation  but that occurred towards  the end of the 
call when things became particularly strained. Whilst I agree there were problems with the 
call, I havent  been  persuaded to make an award. I note that Halifax  says its spoken  with the 
complaint handler  and I think  thats  reasonable. 
Mr A also complained about call costs  when he rang to discuss  his account. I understand the 
conversations took a long time and that he was placed on hold. But that reflects the complex  
nature of the information he was discussing with Halifax.  I understand Mr A wants  Halifax  to 
cover his call costs  but theres  no rule or regulation  that says it has to provide a free phone  
service. I havent found anything to show Mr A was kept on the phone  for an unfair amount 
of time or that his call costs have  been  unreasonably increased by the way Halifax handled 
the account.
Whilst I agree there were problems with the calls Mr A had with Halifax  on 30 July 2018,  I 
havent been persuaded to uphold this complaint. Im satisfied  that the information provided 
to Halifax showed  that Mr A and Miss B werent  in a position to increase their payment 
arrangement on 30 July 2018  to ensure the outstanding balance was repaid in the next three 
months. Halifax says this type of arrangement is only a short  term measure and Im satisfied 
thats correct. Halifax  has to treat customers experiencing financial difficulties  positively and 
sympathetically. Overall, Im satisfied Halifax  has done that by agreeing  two payment 
arrangements between January and July 2018.  Im sorry  to disappoint Mr A and Miss B but 
as I havent found that Halifax has treated them  unfairly, Im not upholding  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN05810873my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0581087