K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a credit card 
taken out in 2002. Mr N says Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him PPI. 
background
The policy and credit card were taken out during a meeting at a bank branch.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On his behalf, Mr Ns representative  disagreed with these findings.  In summary it has made  
the following  points:-
This complaint is about the sale of the PPI, which it has commented  did not comply 
with the relevant regulations at this time.
Mr N was not given  sufficient information at the point of sale, meaning that he could 
not make  an informed choice about  the policy. The representative has highlighted the 
absence of information about  PPI on the credit  card application.
The box selecting  PPI on the credit card application was pre-populated. The 
representative has stated that Mr N was only told where to sign the agreement, 
showing that he was misled into taking out PPI.
The application form did not mention any cost for the PPI, which  also misled Mr N. 
This was a significant omission which meant that Mr N was not treated fairly.
Although the sale was advised,  there is no information to show that Halifax ensured 
the policy was suitable for Mr N.
This case  should not be looked  at on the basis of a retrospective suitability 
assessment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 In my view it is more  likely  than not that Halifax made  it clear  that Mr N didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. I acknowledge Mr Ns representatives 
comments that on the credit card application, where  the PPI box has a cross in it, this is 
pre-populated. However, it seems to me likely that this resulted from a conversation  that 
took place between Mr N and the adviser about  PPI during  their meeting.
I have carefully considered Mr Ns comments that he cannot recall PPI being mentioned  
to him at this time. However I am mindful that the sale occurred a number of years ago, 
in my opinion making it difficult  to recall in detail. Under a section headed Product  
Ref: DRN08839202details, the application form stated: If you would like to take advantage of these 
services please mark the relevant boxes.  Two products  were  listed.  On the form signed  
by Mr N, the box requesting PPI had a cross in it. Overall, based  on the weight of 
evidence provided,  my conclusion is that PPI was presented as an optional product, and 
Mr N agreed to take it out.
 As his representative  has highlighted, Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr N. It 
therefore had to check that the PPI was right for him  and based on what  Ive seen of 
his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he wasnt  affected by any 
of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Mr N has confirmed that he was 
entitled to some  sick pay from his employer.  However, taking into account Mr Ns 
circumstances that he has told us about at the point of sale, my view is that he would 
have found the cover useful if he wasnt working.
 Mr Ns representative has highlighted that there was no detail about the cost of the PPI 
on the application form that Mr N signed,  and that the absence of product information 
shown on this form meant  that he couldnt make an informed choice about the policy.  I 
cannot be certain about what  exactly  the adviser told Mr N about  the policy during the 
meeting that occurred.  On balance, I accept that it is more likely  than not that the 
information Halifax gave  Mr N about  the PPI wasnt sufficiently clear, but I then need to 
consider whether Mr N would  still have taken out the policy  with clearer information.
 Mr N chose to take the policy out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. On balance, taking into account his circumstances, my view 
is that better information about the PPI would not have  put Mr N off taking out the cover.  
I have thought about the points raised by Mr N and his representative in the course of 
pursuing this complaint.  The representative has suggested that the sale has been 
considered on a retrospective suitability  basis. I consider that the central  issues to decide  in 
this complaint are firstly, whether there  were  faults  in the way Halifax  sold this policy,  and 
secondly, whether  this made a difference  to the decision of Mr N to take PPI out. In 
considering these issues, I have also assessed  whether in my view the policy  was 
appropriate for Mr Ns circumstances. Having done  so, my conclusion on balance is that it 
was. I appreciate Mr N will be disappointed, but in my opinion  the policy was not mis-sold.
Consequently Bank  of Scotland  doesnt need to refund everything Mr N paid for the policy.  
But Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mr N back  some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand Bank of Scotland has already paid this to Mr N.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
John Swain
Ref: DRN08839203ombudsman
Ref: DRN0883920