K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
Lloyds merged with the business that sold PPI to Mr and Mrs H and it has dealt with this 
complaint. So from now on Ill just refer in my decision  to Lloyds.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a mortgage account that started  in 1996. 
Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs H during a meeting. They  had joint cover  and it protected 
their mortgage monthly repayments in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion.
Mr and Mrs H mainly said they were told they had to have  the PPI to have the mortgage. 
They also told us that they were both in full-time employment and entitled  to good work 
benefits so they had no need for PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
I cant know exactly what was said when Mr and Mrs H arranged this PPI. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  them to recall exactly what was discussed so long ago. This means 
that what Mr and Mrs H say now isnt enough  on its own for me to be able to uphold their 
complaint. I have to look at everything  and decide  what I think  is most likely. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs H ticked their mortgage application form to show  they wanted  to 
take out PPI. There was a no option they couldve ticked instead if they hadnt wanted  to 
take out PPI. So I think they wouldve seen at the time that it was up to them  to choose if 
they wanted to have  PPI with their mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs H both signed this form at the end to confirm they agreed with the information  on 
it.
Its completely understandable if Mr and Mrs H have now forgotten the details of an 
application they made so long ago. But, on balance, I think  its likely that Mr and Mrs H 
decided they wanted to protect their home by taking out the PPI offered and they chose to 
buy the policy. 
Lloyds said it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. If a business makes  a 
recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  
way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable . 
Ref: DRN05810842Lloyds told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the exact date 
Mr and Mrs H took out PPI. But it has provided a policy document which  was in use 
afterwards  so I think  its likely  that in all main respects the policy that Mr and Mrs H took 
out wouldve  had similar terms and conditions.
Ive taken carefully into account  what Mr and Mrs H told us. It doesnt look to me as if PPI 
was unsuitable  for them  based on what theyve said about their circumstances at the time. 
Looking at policy terms that I think are probably similar to those that applied to 
Mr and Mrs H, it looks  like PPI wouldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per 
accident and sickness claim. 
Ive also taken into account that the PPI wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits.  I think  
this couldve been  very useful  if they werent able to work as Mr and Mrs H mightve had 
other expenses to meet as a result  of one or both of them  being  sick or disabled. 
The policy wouldve also paid out a monthly  benefit  for up to 12 months if either or both of 
them became unexpectedly unemployed. 
As the mortgage  was based on both Mr and Mrs H being in work I dont know how easy it 
wouldve been for them to maintain the monthly repayments if either (or both) of them wasnt 
working and they didnt  have PPI. I think the policy benefits wouldve  been important to 
Mr and Mrs H at the time. Their mortgage was a major financial commitment, repayable  over 
a substantial number  of years. Their home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage  payments 
werent kept up to date.  PPI provided dependable  protection. 
I dont know if they wouldve always had savings to rely on if they werent able to work. And it 
looks like their savings were  probably  put substantially  towards  the costs of buying their 
home as they told us this was what theyd been saving for. So, I can see why they mightve 
felt PPI was useful to have. 
Its possible  some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they werent  affected  by any of the main conditions that 
mightve limited the policys  benefit  to them. So, even if these werent mentioned,  I dont 
think that knowing more  about things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference  to 
Mr and Mrs Hs decision to have PPI. 
It seems  Mr and Mrs H chose to take out the policy and so it appears they wanted this type 
of cover. Both of them were eligible for the policy. I dont know  if the PPI cost was made 
clear to Mr and Mrs H when they bought the policy. But, from what Ive seen, it doesnt 
appear to have been unaffordable for them when  they took it out. 
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs H still wouldve  decided to buy the policy  if theyd been better informed as 
it gave them worthwhile protection in their particular situation. I dont  think  better information 
wouldve put them off buying PPI given  the benefits it offered them.
The policy they took out automatically increased to cover their new monthly repayments 
when they arranged further advances  on their mortgage account.  Mr and Mrs H were able to 
cancel the insurance  at any time if they decided they no longer wanted  it. 
Ref: DRN05810843Based on all the information Ive seen, I dont find theyve lost out as a result of anything that 
Lloyds did wrong  when it sold them PPI.  
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give back  to Mr and Mrs H some of the 
commission they paid.  The Supreme  Court  ruling and new rules  and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 September 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0581084