K822xcomplaint
Mr R is unhappy about the time its taken for the National House-Building Council (NHBC)  
to repair  the outside wall of his property  and remove the efflorescence affecting  the balcony.  
Mr R is represented in his complaint  by his uncle, Mr O.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 August 2020 explaining that I was 
intending to partially uphold  Mr Rs complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
On 5 October 2016 Mr O contacted NHBC to report  damage to the property. NHBC 
confirmed the property was covered under the warranty until November 2016 and 
said the repair of the cracked  render would be covered by the policy.
The property was inspected, and a report issued on 14 November 2016 confirming 
the original builder would repair the cracked  render.  The works were completed  in 
February 2017, but Mr O wasnt happy with the quality of the works. In April 2017, 
NHBC assessed the repair and agreed  it wasnt up to standard.  Recommendations 
were given to the builder  
as to how to properly repair the render.
In October  2017 NHBC took over settlement of the claim because  the builder  had 
failed to properly  progress matters. NHBC contacted Mr O to arrange for repairs to 
take place in April 2018  because certain weather conditions were  required for the 
works  but further delays followed. 
The works havent been progressed between April 2018  and the current  time, due to 
various circumstances  occurring. NHBC hasnt been  able to obtain updates from their 
contractor for months at a time and Mr O has continued to insist that the works take 
place at a particular time of year. Mr O also had sensitive  personal circumstances in 
2019 which meant he didnt feel able to progress matters, so NHBC say theyd left it 
with him to contact them to arrange a time for the works to start.
Mr O brought the complaint to our service in January  2019.  In October 2019, one of 
our investigators began looking into his complaint. Mr O said he didnt have  the time 
last year to deal with the claim as during the summer of 2019 he was taking care of 
his father, who passed away in August 2019.  Mr O said he was looking for increased 
compensation for the ongoing  delays in having the works completed,  and for the loss 
in rent due to the tenants not being able to make use of the balcony.  Hes also 
complained that NHBC hasnt sorted  out the efflorescence in the balcony, which he 
thinks should be covered by the warranty.
In November 2019 NHBC sent us a copy of the title and pointed out that Mr O was 
not the property  owner, although in his communications with them, hed talked about 
the property as if he was owner. Our investigator contacted Mr R, the owner who said 
that Mr O was his uncle and was representing him in the complaint. 
Ref: DRN05720352NHBC investigated the further delays that had occurred  from October  2018  to 
November 2019  and issued a further final response letter  to Mr O on 19 November 
2019 not upholding his complaint. In that FRL they said that it had been agreed 
works would commence in spring 2019,  following their last final response letter,  but 
due to Mr Os personal circumstances he hadnt been able to provide a date for 
repairs to start. They said that their contractor had been in contact  with Mr O at 
regular intervals and had asked that he get in contact  when  he felt able to schedule 
the works.  
With regard to the issue of efflorescence, NHBC explained that its a type of white 
deposit found on masonry and is formed when water  reacts with the natural salts 
contained in the construction material and mortar. They  said that the water  dissolves 
the salts, which are then carried  out and deposited onto the surface by the natural 
evaporation that occurs when air comes into contact with the surface of the brick. 
Efflorescence is not considered a defect,  because although its unsightly,  it is 
harmless and in NHBCs view should be left to weather away by itself.  As its not 
considered a defect,  its not covered under the terms  of the Buildmark  Policy.
Mr O didnt accept the conclusions reached by NHBC. He said the efflorescence  was 
caused by the last unsatisfactory repair and although cleaned  in February 2019, it 
had now returned.
Our investigator issued  her first view on the complaint in January 2019.  She 
concluded that the £500 compensation offered by NHBC was sufficient to 
compensate Mr O for the delays in completing  the works up to October 2018. She 
also concluded that the efflorescence  was not covered by the policy  as it was 
naturally occurring, rather caused by a defect, and there was no evidence that it was 
caused by the builder  when the first repair was carried out. 
Mr O didnt agree with our investigators  view and provided additional information to 
be considered. Our investigator issued a second view on 26 February 2020, 
explaining that NHBCs contractors cleared the efflorescence  in February 2019 as a 
goodwill gesture, but that wasnt covered by the policy so she wouldnt be upholding 
that part of the complaint. She explained that NHBC had offered an additional £250 
in compensation  for the delays from October 2018 to the present time which she 
thought was fair. Finally, our investigator requested that Mr O provide NHBC with 
some dates in April 2020 for the works to commence. 
Mr O still didnt agree with our investigators  view and asked  for an ombudsmans  
decision on the complaint. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Its not in dispute  that delays have occurred in the settling of this claim,  which  have 
caused inconvenience to Mr R, which he should be compensated  for. NHBC  has 
offered £750 compensation,  which our investigator  concluded was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. What remains for me to decide is the degree to 
which the delays  were caused by NHBCs actions, and whether the compensation 
should be increased to reflect that. But before  I go on to do that, I first need to 
Ref: DRN05720353address a point  of clarification which has an impact on the provisional conclusions Ill 
reach on the amount of compensation due.
The nature of Mr Os communications with NHBC and our service, have incorrectly 
led to him being  treated as the homeowner. In fact, Mr R is the policy holder and 
homeowner. So, in considering any distress or inconvenience that NHBCs actions 
have caused,  I can only take account of the impact on Mr R, who is NHBCs 
customer. I have no power to require NHBC to pay compensation to a third party, 
such as Mr O. 
Mr O has told us that hes had to spend a lot of time trying to resolve  this matter but 
as hes a third party  to this complaint, I cant take account of the inconvenience hes 
suffered, when deciding what compensation may be due from NHBC.
.
Mr O has also said he feels that he (meaning Mr R) has lost out on some rent, 
because he hasnt been able to increase the rent while this matter has been  ongoing. 
However, before I can award compensation for loss of rent, Id need to be provided 
with evidence of actual loss, which I havent currently seen. Rather,  it seems  to me 
that Mr R decided not to increase the rent while  the repair was unresolved. That 
decision isnt something NHBC  is responsible for.
I also note that Mr R was represented at all times, during the period  of the claim and 
subsequent complaints to our service, by Mr O. This will have lessened  the impact  of 
NHBCs actions  on him, directly. However,  given the claim has been ongoing for 
nearly four years, I accept  that the delays have caused Mr R some inconvenience. 
So, Ive next considered who caused the delays,  and whether NHBC should pay 
additional compensation to Mr R for the impact those delays have had on him.
After the claim was made, in late October, a report on the repairs  was issued by mid-
November 2016  and the works were completed  in February 2017. Given the works 
needed to be completed in particular  weather conditions,  Im satisfied that the claim 
was progressed within a reasonable  time at this early stage. However, from this point 
delays began to occur.
Mr O complained about quality of the repairs and the appearance of the finish that 
had been achieved. In April 2017,  NHBC agreed  that the works needed to be redone 
by the builder. No progress was made with the repairs up to October 2017, when Mr 
O expressed concern  about the work being completed during the winter, and 
following a request from him, in November, NHBC agreed that the works be delayed  
until spring 2018. 
In late April 2018, NHBCs new contractor  contacted  Mr O to arrange  a time to start 
the repair works. But in July 2018, the works  were delayed as the weather was too 
hot. Then  in October 2018, Mr O again  said that, on the basis  of the weather cooling 
down, the works should be delayed until spring  2019.  He also raised the issue  of the 
efflorescence and asked who would remove it that from the balcony. The contractor  
attended the property in February 2019  to clean the efflorescence and deliver the 
render samples to Mr O.
At the end of May 2019, the contractor  informed NHBC that Mr O had chosen  the 
colour for the render and the works  were  to be scheduled for early June. In October 
the contractor confirmed that due to Mr Os circumstances, the work hadnt been 
Ref: DRN05720354arranged yet. In November the contractor  advised that due to Mr Os personal 
circumstances, he didnt  feel it was fair to push Mr O to commit to a date for the 
works to be done  so had left it with him to contact  them when he was ready. 
Mr O has denied being contacted with any sort of regularity by NHBC or its 
contractors. However, he hasnt provided any evidence to support that. NHBC have 
provided their contact log and details  of emails and calls that were  made  throughout 
this period. Having  weighed  up the available evidence, Im currently  of the view that 
throughout its handling of the claim, NHBC most likely did make regular attempts to 
communicate with Mr O.
I also note that although  NHBC was willing  to have the repairs  done  in the autumn or 
winter, each year Mr O insisted that the works be delayed  to the following spring.  
Given that once  the paint  had been ordered, the works would only take a day, I think  
that Mr Os actions led to some avoidable delays.
However, I also note that there were several  months  during the winters of 2017 and 
2018 and the summer  of 2019  when NHBC didnt seem able to contact their own 
contractors to progress  the settling of the claim, which I consider also led to 
avoidable delays.
If Mr O had cooperated sooner with NHBC, by making himself  available  to view the 
samples, and by providing dates for the works to commence, then I think  the days  
work could  possibly have been completed  by the end of October  2017,  weather 
permitting. And although  NHBCs  actions  have contributed to the overall delay,  I cant 
hold NHBC responsible for the delays caused  by Mr O. These  delays continued into 
2019, when Mr O wasnt able to progress the matter due to his own personal 
circumstances. Although Im sorry to hear of the situation Mr O was in, the claim was 
Mr Rs to make, and he could have  appointed  another  representative to progress 
matters for him during  that time.
In considering the impact of the delays on Mr R, Ive thought  about what  the 
consequences were  for him, of not having  the works  completed.  In February 2017 
the render was repaired  just not to an acceptable decorative standard. There is no 
suggestion that any further damage occurred to the property as a result of the sub-
standard repair  it appears to have been a cosmetic matter. Nor do the outstanding 
works appear to have  prevented Mr R from letting the property. 
So, it seems  to me, taking  account  of the avoidable  and unavoidable  delays, the 
main impact  on Mr R of the works not yet being  completed, is the extra  time hes had 
to spend, over the last four years, communicating about this matter  with Mr O or 
NHBC and the inconvenience of having  the matter  unresolved. And Im currently of 
the view that the offer of compensation NHBC has made, of £750 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive next considered Mr Os request for NHBC to remove the efflorescence under the 
terms and conditions of the policy. Mr O first raised his concerns about  the 
efflorescence with NHBC in October 2018,  which was approximately  11 months after 
the term of the policy expired. He argued that the efflorescence was caused  by the 
builders who completed  the first repair in February 2017. 
Ref: DRN05720355However, NHBCs disputed that and provided a detailed explanation of how 
efflorescence comes to appear on external parts of a building.  Having considered  the 
contradictory points  of view, I find NHBCs explanation to be the most persuasive,  so 
I dont accept it was caused  by the builders actions.  And, even if Mr O could provide 
evidence that hed raised the issue with NHBC before  the end of the policy term, as 
our investigator explained,  the cover provided  under years 3 to 10 of the policy,  is 
only for damage caused by a defect. The definition of defect doesnt include 
damage caused by a naturally occurring  process. So even if NHBC had been notified  
of the efflorescence  during the policy term, they wouldnt be responsible for taking 
any steps to remove  the efflorescence  under the terms of Mr Rs policy.  So, Im not 
currently minded to uphold this element of Mr Rs complaint.
I said I was intending  to conclude that NHBCs offer to pay £750 to settle the complaint was 
fair in all the circumstances. 
NHBC responded to say they felt the provisional decision set out an accurate reflection  of 
the events and they had no further  comments to add.
Mr O spoke to our investigator to say he didnt agree with the provisional decision. He 
explained that:
he felt that Id made assumptions rather than relying on facts and evidence; 
he disagreed  with my suggestion that he had in any way delayed  the completion of 
the works. He said he regularly tried to contact NHBC and asked them  to do the 
work;
he feels its unfair that I havent  taken into account the fact that he wasnt able to 
increase the rent due to the efflorescence; 
he remains of the view that the efflorescence is a defect caused by NHBCs 
substandard repairs,  and not due to any natural  causes;
hes unhappy the work still hasnt been  completed and says NHBC hasnt been in 
touch with him at all during this time. He appreciates  that everything  was closed 
during Covid  but he would  have  liked to at least receive an update  from NHBC; and 
for a number of personal reasons, the last few months have been very difficult for 
him.
Mr O followed  up with an email and added  the following:
he feels that Ive caused  injury  and hurt to his feelings by saying  hed caused  delays;
NHBC didnt  contact  him until September 2019 to show him a sample  of the render;
he wanted to clarify  for the record  that he has never directly  asked  for any 
compensation to be awarded for himself,  and he is acting as Mr Rs agent / 
representative which he is charging him for; and
he hasnt increased the rent due to the ongoing  problems  and he doesnt feel he 
should have to prove that.
Mr O also said,  in relation to the efflorescence,  he believes the fact that NHBC had their 
contractor clean off the efflorescence  indicates  liability and he also doesnt believe  that Im 
qualified to make the comments  I made in relation to the efflorescence.  He said I should be 
asking why the NHBC got their contractor to clean  it if they were not responsible for it in the 
first place. Mr O has provided photographs from before  and after the efflorescence  and 
residue appeared. He said that it was only after the NHBC contractors carried  out their work 
that they had the unsightly and unacceptable  problem.
Ref: DRN05720356Mr O disputes that NHBC asked him to liaise with their contractor directly and requested a 
copy of all correspondence  from NHBC in relation  to this issue  which our investigator 
provided. Mr O said that the contractor  only got in touch with him in October 2019 when he 
called to choose a colour  and he said work would start in two weeks,  but he didnt make  
contact again.  He said he never  advised  the contractor that the work should start next 
spring. He doesnt  believe  the contractor has anything to do with him and he denies it was 
agreed that they would  agree a schedule between themselves. On that point, NHBC 
responded to say that the contractor is best placed to make  the arrangements  directly with 
Mr O, rather than communications going  via the NHBC.
Mr O also said there  must be a cut-off date for the work to be satisfactorily completed, and 
further compensation should be paid for the continuing delays. He added  that the contractors 
could come whenever they wanted  to, they just needed to notify him of a date. Finally, Mr O 
said that if the efflorescence / residue builds up on the new coating, the NHBC will need to 
rectify the problem, and if they fail to do so, he will come back  to our service.
NHBC have said that it was Mr Os choice to wait for the complaint to be resolved, rather 
than having the works  done  in the meantime. Theyve added that its not uncommon for 
works which arent in dispute to be completed while a complaint is being considered, and 
then once the ombudsmans decision has been issued, any other work required would be 
done. 
As I hadnt  set out a proposed timeframe for the works to be done, in my provisional 
decision, I emailed  both Mr O and NHBC with the following wording, to request their 
comments on:
I require NHBC to arrange  for their contractor  to contact Mr R or his representative, as soon 
as possible and within two weeks from the date that NHBC is notified that Mr R has 
accepted this final decision, to agree a start date and period of time within which  the works 
at Mr Rs property at 115 Hurstbourne Crescent  will be completed (taking  account  of 
appropriate weather conditions). NHBC is to then arrange for their contractor to complete the 
outstanding works, as set out in this decision, during that agreed period of time (subject to 
appropriate weather conditions  being  present during the agreed  time). If the works  need to 
be postponed  because the predicted weather during the agreed period changes  so as to 
prevent the works being done, then NHBC is to arrange for their contractor  to contact Mr R 
or his representative to arrange a new date for the works to be done, at their earliest  
opportunity, taking account  of the weather.
NHBC responded to say they were generally satisfied with the proposed wording, but also 
asked that I address any difficulties that may arise, in arranging a time,  due to national or 
local lockdowns, or cancellation of appointments by the homeowner  or his representative.
Mr O replied to say they agree that there  needs  to be a timescale of when the work needs to 
be completed by. He also said hed also appreciate it if I would look at the efflorescence 
issue because he remains of the view that if that is not resolved, it will run down  the new 
work, which will then have  to be redone. 
Ive taken these  additional comments into account in making  my final decision.
Ref: DRN05720357my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to 
substantially the same conclusions as those  reached in my provisional decision. I will explain 
why, under the following  headings: Efflorescence ; Compensation for delays; and 
Completion  of works .
Efflorescence
Ive carefully considered  Mr Os additional evidence regarding the efflorescence  and NHBCs 
liability to remove the efflorescence, on the basis that it was caused by the actions of their 
contractors.
On the one hand, I have a detailed explanation from NHBC of how efflorescence comes  to 
appear on the external parts of a building. This was included in their final response  letter  to 
Mr O dated 19 November  2019. They said that efflorescence  is a type of white  deposit 
found on masonry and is formed  when water reacts with the natural salts contained in the 
construction material and mortar. The water dissolves the salts, which  are then carried out 
and deposited  onto the surface by the natural evaporation that occurs when air comes  into 
contact with the surface of the brick. NHBC also added that efflorescence isnt considered 
to be a defect that would be covered by the policy. Having reviewed the policy terms and 
conditions, I agree that the appearance of the efflorescence  itself wouldnt be covered by the 
policy. However, if it was caused by NHBCs contractors in the course of carrying out other  
repairs to the property, then I would be minded to require NHBC to deal with the 
efflorescence.
On the other hand, Mr O has said the efflorescence was caused  by NHBCs contractors 
when they were carrying out works  in 2017, so it should therefore be removed by NHBC. In 
response to the provisional decision Mr O provided  photographs from before and after the 
efflorescence and residue appeared. He said that it was only after NHBCs contractors  
carried out their work that they now had the unsightly and unacceptable  problem.  Mr O also 
said that the fact NHBC had their contractor clean off the efflorescence indicates liability. Ive 
thought about Mr Os argument here, and while that could  be one explanation, another 
equally plausible explanation is that NHBC agreed  for the work  to be done as a gesture of 
goodwill. The other concern Mr O had, in relation  to my provisional findings on the 
efflorescence, was that he didnt believe I was qualified to comment on the efflorescence.  
However, my role isnt to provide technical expertise on efflorescence.  As the decision 
maker, my role is to weigh up the evidence provided  by both parties to the dispute and 
decide which evidence  I find to be the most persuasive, which  is what  I am doing in this 
decision. 
I accept the photos  do demonstrate that efflorescence and residue have appeared on the 
exterior surface of the property as described by Mr O. However,  the evidence  provided isnt 
sufficient to persuade  me that the appearance of the efflorescence was caused by the 
actions of NHBCs contractors. Where the evidence is inconsistent,  as it is here,  I make  my 
decision on the basis of the balance of probabilities,  that is, what  is most likely to be the 
case. And taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that the efflorescence 
naturally occurred in-line with the explanation provided by NHBC. 
So, for these reasons,  Im neither persuaded that the efflorescence was caused by NHBCs 
contractors, nor that the removal of the efflorescence is covered by the policy terms and 
Ref: DRN05720358conditions. It follows that I wont be asking NHBC to take any further action in relation to the 
efflorescence. 
Compensation for delays
Before addressing this second element of the complaint  I would first like to apologise  to Mr O 
for any upset he was caused  by my discussion of the delays in having  the works  done, in the 
provisional decision. I would also like to offer my condolences for the bereavements hes 
suffered during the current pandemic.  I understand that it has been a very difficult time for 
him. Id like to clarify that the reason  for referring  to delays that werent  due to the actions or 
inaction of NHBC or their contractors, was to help explain  why Id reached  the conclusion  
that compensation in the sum of £750,  was sufficient. I can only award compensation for 
avoidable delays  caused by NHBC,  so I set out the factors leading  to the overall  delay but 
clarified that not all of the delays were  caused by NHBC.  
Ive explained  the timeline of events in some detail in my provisional decision, which is 
repeated in the background  to this final decision, so I dont  intend  to repeat that again here. 
But I will respond to one comment  made by Mr O about not being contacted by NHBC in 
relation to having the works done. Our investigator  sent Mr O excerpts  of contact notes  and 
emails provided by NHBC. That evidence confirms NHBC or their contractors did try to 
contact Mr O on a number  of occasions between 2017 and 2019  to seek  to progress the 
works. I dont think they did enough  to make sure the works  were done within a reasonable 
timeframe, which is why I consider the offer of £750  compensation is appropriate to 
recognise that NHBC could have  managed  the claim better.
However, having considered all of the evidence afresh, I remain of the view that £750  is 
sufficient to compensate  Mr R for the impact  the delays have had on him.
Mr O has expressed  the view that the contractors could attend  the property at any time to 
carry out the works. However, as the property is tenanted,  it wouldnt be appropriate for the 
contractors to turn up unannounced  to complete  the works.
Mr O also felt that further delays had been caused  by NHBC waiting for the outcome on this 
complaint, before completing the works.  NHBC disagreed and said that they were happy to 
complete the agreed works and await my decision on the outstanding works in dispute.
Throughout the complaint, Mr O has said that the efflorescence needs  to be addressed, or 
the issue will recur, leading to another complaint being made. So, Mr Os request for the 
works to be done  has been conditional on the efflorescence  also being  addressed,  which is 
one of the main  issues in dispute.
Ive thought carefully about this, but I dont think that any additional  compensation needs  to 
be awarded for further delays in having the works completed. I say this because  the works  
Mr O wants to be done, and the works that NHBC are willing to do, are different, and the key 
issue in dispute  here.  So, I dont think it unreasonable for NHBC to await  a decision on what  
works they are required to do, before starting the works.
Date to complete works
As the repair to the render needs  to be done in the right weather conditions,  it isnt possible 
for me to set a specific date by which  time the repair works to the render need  to be 
completed. However, NHBC does need  to complete this claim, and Mr O and Mr R need  to 
Ref: DRN05720359co-operate with NHBCs contractor in arranging a suitable time for the works to be done,  and 
then allow  the contractor to do the works  at that agreed time.
In partially upholding this complaint, I require NHBC to arrange for their contractor to contact 
Mr R or his representative, as soon  as possible and within two weeks  from the date that 
NHBC is notified that Mr R has accepted this final decision, to agree a start date and period 
of time within which the works at Mr Rs property at 115 Hurstbourne Crescent will be 
completed (taking account of appropriate  weather conditions, and any restrictions  arising  
from any local or national  lockdown  relating  to the covid-19 pandemic). NHBC is to then 
arrange for their contractor to complete the outstanding works during that agreed period of 
time (subject  to appropriate weather conditions being present during the agreed time). If the 
works need to be postponed because the predicted weather during the agreed period 
changes so as to prevent the works being done, or additional local or national lockdown 
restrictions come into force, or Mr R or his representative cancel the appointment, then 
NHBC is to arrange for their contractor to contact  Mr R or his representative to arrange a 
new date for the works to be done,  at their earliest opportunity, taking account of the weather 
and applicable lockdown restrictions.  
As Im only upholding this complaint in part, Mr R may choose not to accept the decision. If 
Mr R doesnt accept  this decision, then it wont be legally binding  on him and he will be free 
to pursue the resolution of his complaint outside  of this service.
my final decision
My final decision is that the National House Building Council have made an offer to pay £750  
to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, the National 
House-building Council should  pay £750 to Mr R and arrange for their contractor to make 
contact with Mr R or his representative in accordance with the direction included  above to 
complete the works and settle  Mr Rs claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2020.
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0572035