K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Curo Transatlantic Limited  (Wage Day Advance)  gave him three  loans 
that he couldnt afford.
background
Mr C took out three short term loans  with Wage Day Advance.  These are:
Loan  
numberBorrowing 
dateDate repaidLoan  
amountInstalments Repayment
1 30/05/2015 06/07/2015 £150 1 £190.80
2 25/07/2015 04/09/2015 £150 1 £198.00
3 19/09/2015 04/11/2015 £120 1 £163.20
Mr C says Wage Day Advance was irresponsible in lending him money. He says his 
circumstances at the time meant that he shouldnt have been  lent money in the first place.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He concluded that 
Wage Day Advance  had carried out sufficient checks and with the information gathered, the 
loans were affordable  based on the information  Mr C had declared.
Mr C disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for his complaint to be looked at again. 
As both parties still dont  agree,  Mr Cs complaint has been passed to me to make  a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loan was offered. 
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Wage  Day Advance, at the time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy  itself that Mr C would be able to repay  in a sustainable way?
If not, would  those checks have shown that Mr C would have been able to do so.
Taking into account  the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall  pattern of 
lending increase Mr Cs indebtedness in a way that was otherwise unsustainable or harmful?
Did Wage  Day Advance act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Wage Day Advance did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr C and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Wage Day Advance  was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make  checks  to see 
whether Mr C could afford to pay back the loans before  it lent to him. Those checks  needed  
to be proportionate to things such as the amount Mr C was borrowing and the length of the 
agreement. But there was no set list of checks Wage  Day Advance had to do.
Ref: DRN02056832Wage Day Advance  asked Mr C for information  about his monthly income  and expenditure. It 
says it also carried out a credit check for loan 1 and that it used this information when making 
a decision whether to agree to lend Mr C money.  I havent been able to see the details  from 
this credit check though.
Mr C first approached Wage Day Advance for a loan on 30/05/2015. He told Wage  Day 
Advance he earned £1730 per month and had expenditure  of £432. The information provided 
by Mr C would have  showed the loan repayment amount was affordable in comparison to his 
disposable income. 
This was also the first time Mr C had approached Wage Day Advance and the loan was for a 
relatively low amount. It would have  looked as if Mr C would have been able to afford the 
repayment on loan 1 and there was nothing else that I have seen  that I think would have  
alerted Wage Day Advance to carry out further  checks. So I think  the checks it did do were  
proportionate.
Mr C then applied for another loan around  3 weeks after he had repaid the first one. This 
second loan was for the same amount and again after considering  the information that Mr C 
had declared to Wage Day Advance, I can see that it would  have shown that he could have 
afforded the repayment amount. Wage Day Advance again asked for information about       
Mr Cs income  and expenditure and when I consider everything that I have about this loan,  I 
think it carried out proportionate checks for this one too. 
By the time Mr C came back a third time and for a smaller amount, I think Wage Day 
Advance would  have  seen from the information that it had gathered  that he would  have been  
able to comfortably  afford  loan 3. I think Wage Day Advance carried  out proportionate checks  
for this loan also. 
Mr C has said that Wage Day Advance  didnt credit check him but if it had done  it would  
have seen the loans were  not affordable. Wage Day advance says it carried out a credit  
check for loan 1 but it hasnt provided any details  about this. There  wasnt  any requirement  
for it to carry out a credit check  just that it needed  to conduct proportionate checks. And as 
Ive said above,  I think that proportionate  checks would have shown that the loans were 
affordable for Mr C.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C, but I dont  think Wage Day Advance  was irresponsible to lend to 
him at the time that it did.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019 .
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0205683