K820x#14complaint
Miss F is unhappy with the fees First Data Europe  Limited charged  for providing card 
payment services, and disputes she signed  an agreement with it. Shes  also unhappy with 
how it handled her complaint.
Miss F is represented in this complaint by her mother but to keep  things simple  Ill refer only 
to Miss F in my decision.
background
Miss F says she contacted First Data  because she wanted a way of taking  card payments 
from customers of her business. In April 2018 one of its sales agents met with her at her 
home to discuss its merchant card services.  
As a result of that meeting First Data began providing Miss F with its card services and 
Miss F started  using  them. First Data also began charging Miss F for its services. 
In May 2018  Miss F contacted First Data to complain it had made several charges she 
wasnt expecting,  and that the sales agent  hadnt  got back  to her to explain these costs or 
assist with the setup.  At about this time Miss F asked her bank to cancel the Direct Debit to 
First Data and refund other  fees it had charged  her. 
Miss F says that over the course of several  calls, First Data told her it hadnt done anything  
wrong and sent her copies of the signed agreements. First Data refunded  Miss Fs £35 
joining fee as a goodwill gesture, as this was one of the fees shed disputed. But it continued  
to pursue her for the other fees and charges set out in the agreements. 
In July 2018 Miss F asked our service  to investigate. She said that what  First Data  was 
charging her was different to what shed been told in the sales  meeting, that she didnt sign 
the agreements  or the Direct  Debit mandate,  and that its agents had been rude and 
unhelpful in dealing with her complaint. So she wanted the agreements  to be cancelled 
without having  to pay anything.
First Data hadnt given  Miss F its final response  to her complaint but in August 2018 it 
agreed our service could  start investigating.  After looking into things our investigator said 
she thought the charges were made clear to Miss F, and that it was likely she had signed the 
agreements.
Miss F didnt agree that the charges were made clear  or that she signed the agreements, 
and asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. So her complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. I 
realise Miss F will be disappointed but Ill explain  my reasons. For ease, Ill address each  of 
the points raised  separately.
charges and fees 
Ref: DRN05197682Miss F and the agent have given different accounts  of what was discussed at the sales 
meeting. I wasnt at that meeting and no record was made of it at the time, so I cant say for 
certain what was discussed. Where  I have conflicting versions of events, I have to decide on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is likely to have happened given the 
evidence I do have.  In this case thats the testimonies of Miss F and First Data, the signed 
agreements and signed Direct  Debit mandate,  Miss Fs account  statements, and First Datas 
notes of its contact with Miss F.
Having done so, I think its more likely than not that Miss F signed agreements and a Direct  
Debit mandate with First Data.  Its not the role of our service  to analyse handwriting, but Ive 
seen the signatures  in question and dont think they look dissimilar. 
Whether Miss F did or didnt sign them at the meeting, she says she did want to sign up with 
First Data and expected  to be sent the agreements to sign after the meeting. And her 
accounts show she used  First Datas card services to process many customer payments in 
April and May 2018. If she hadnt wanted  its service, I wouldnt have expected  her to use it. 
First Datas contact notes show that when Miss F first complained in May 2018 she wasnt  
disputing that she signed the agreements.  At that time she was unhappy about being  
charged the £35 joining  fee, the £48 cash drawer fee and the rental  and interim rental fees. If 
Miss F hadnt signed the agreement, I would have expected her to complain  about  that at the 
same time but from the evidence Ive seen,  she didnt until July 2018. So I think its most 
likely she did sign the agreements and Direct  Debit mandate, although I accept she may 
remember things differently.
First Data is entitled to decide what it charges for its services and to set its own terms and 
conditions. But it has to make these things clear to its customers  and apply them  fairly.  
Miss F says First Data didnt fully explain the charges in the sales meeting. For its part, First 
Data says it did, and that shortly after Miss F signed the agreements  its system automatically 
emailed copies of them  to her. Ive seen screenshots  from First Datas  system  to support 
this.
Miss F says she wasnt told about the £35 joining fee, the £48 cash drawer  fee and the 
rental fees. But I think the agreements made  clear  that Miss F would be charged  for these. 
Page one of the hire agreement sets out the one-off and ongoing  charges for hiring  the 
payment terminal. And page three  of the merchant  service  agreement application sets out 
the one-off  and ongoing charges for processing payments, just behind  Miss Fs personal  and 
business information.
Ive compared  the charges set out in the agreement with what First Data actually charged 
Miss F, as shown on her merchant card services account statements. Having  done  so Im 
satisfied First Data has charged Miss F in line with the agreements. First Data  has refunded  
the £35 joining fee to Miss Fs card services account  as a goodwill gesture  I know  Miss F 
disputes this but Ive checked and Im satisfied it had made this refund. 
length of agreement
Miss F says she thought  her agreement with First Data was for 24 months, but that its 
actually for 48 months. Miss F may not have  remembered  from their meeting exactly what 
the sales agent said about  the length  of the agreement, but Miss F herself has provided us 
with a letter First Data sent to her on 19 April 2018,  at the start of her agreement. That letter 
clearly sets out that her agreement is for 48 months.  
Ref: DRN05197683And I havent seen  anything to suggest that a 24 month contract was an option for Miss F, as 
the agreement  only talks about  either a 36 or 48 month contract. So taking everything into 
account, I think its likely Miss F was made sufficiently aware of the length  of the contract  at 
the sales meeting,  and that she probably  agreed to it.
customer service
Before our service can investigate, the Financial Conduct Authority  allows businesses like 
First Data eight weeks to look into customer complaints and give a final response.  Both 
Miss Fs testimony  and First Datas contact  notes show  most of the calls happened in those 
eight weeks and that it tried to answer  her queries  and refunded  her £35 joining fee, before 
consenting to our service  investigating. 
Miss F says that in those calls, First Datas agents  were rude and unhelpful.  The examples 
shes given are it not agreeing it had done something wrong, telling her she signed the 
agreements and that copies of those  agreements were sent to her, refusing to compare the 
signature on her driving licence with the signature on the agreements, and an agent  calling  
from a taxi rather than an office. And she says there were times it didnt call her back.
Ive not listened to recordings of Miss Fs calls but I accept  what  she says about them. The 
calls may have caused Miss F frustration, but based on her testimony this was largely 
because she didnt  agree  with what the agents were  saying. I dont think  it would be 
reasonable to award compensation for that.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0519768