K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a single  premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2001 Mr P took out a loan to buy a car and the bank recommended that he also take out 
PPI to protect his repayments. 
Mr P says he was pressured  into buying the PPI and it didnt offer good value for money. He 
thinks it was wrong of the bank to have sold him the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for this.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So I need to base my decision on the evidence I do have and what  I think  is most 
likely to have happened.
HSBC doesnt  have the actual paperwork for the loan or PPI. This isnt surprising given how 
long ago the sale took place. But it has given us a sample of the type of credit  agreement 
that wouldve  been in use at the time. This has a separate section asking the customer to 
confirm whether they wanted the PPI and space for a signature. Theres also a separate 
column of costs for the PPI policy.
I think its likely Mr P signed  a form similar to this  and indeed Mr P doesnt dispute  this. His 
key complaint is that he was told he must  have  it, with the member  of staff using phrases like 
what would happen if he lost his job or was too ill to work. I have no doubt this represents  
his best recollection  of the events of the sale. But this is a subjective area and I have not 
been presented  with any evidence that supports this testimony. So, having considered  the 
above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that Mr P only took the policy  
because he was put under pressure to do so.
The bank recommended the PPI to Mr P. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time.  I say this because:
-Mr P was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
-Mr P might, on reflection, think the policy cost a lot. But, as Ive already said, the loan 
agreement he signed sets out what he would  need  to borrow  to pay for the PPI, the 
Ref: DRN02175932interest that would be charged on that particular  bit of the loan, the monthly cost to repay  
the PPI loan and the potential total cost.  So it seems likely Mr P was made aware of the 
overall cost and found it acceptable. And, given his circumstances, I dont think  the policy  
was unaffordable.  
-It doesnt appear that Mr P would have been affected by any of the significant  limitations  
or exclusions of the cover; such as those  relating to pre-existing medical conditions. 
-Mr P says he had good work-related  benefits if he couldnt  work due to a sickness or 
accident and some savings. However, the PPI could have paid out for considerably  
longer than Mr P would  receive  work related benefits, and it would leave him able to use 
his savings for other expenses. Given this, I think he would have  had some  use for the 
policy.
-If the loan had been repaid early  Mr P would not have  been given a pro-rata refund and 
that made the policy relatively inflexible. I cant be sure that the bank considered this or 
explained the situation clearly  to Mr P. But Ive seen nothing  to suggest that he thought it 
might be possible he would repay the loan early, so that feature of the policy didnt make 
it unsuitable for Mr P.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. As Ive already said, Mr P was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  
and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely he would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  Mr P would  still 
have taken out the policy. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0217593