K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Penrican Credit  Ltd (trading as CarLoan2day) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr W bought the policy  in 2006 to protect his repayments on a hire purchase agreement he 
was taking out to buy a car. He recalls  the sale was in a branch, Penrican Credits records 
suggest it was on the phone. The total amount he borrowed included  an amount to pay for 
the policy. And it provided Mr W with cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed so the complaint was passed  to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is contradictory  or 
incomplete (as some of it is here), Ive based my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in 
other words, on what I consider is most  likely given the available  evidence and the wider 
circumstances. Penrican Credit cant provide a copy of Mr Ws policy  document so Ive relied 
on one from the nearest  date available.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr W says he was told he had to take out PPI for the hire purchase agreement  to be 
approved. Penrican Credit disputes this. I cant know  what  was said during the sale so 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ws comments and looked at the paperwork available 
from the sale.  I dont doubt Mr W has given us his honest recollections of the sale, but I 
also have to take into account how long ago it was and how that might impact  what he 
remembers.
Penrican Credit says Mr W would have been  taken  through  a Demands and Needs 
Statement (DNS) by one of its advisers  and only if he agreed  to buy PPI would it have 
been added  to his agreement. It cant provide Mr Ws DNS but thats not unreasonable 
given the time since the sale. It has however sent in a sample  and this shows  the PPI 
wasnt presented as mandatory as it gives a Y/N option. Penrican  Credit has been able 
to provide a copy  of the Customer Declaration Mr W signed  and on this he confirmed he 
had received a copy of the DNS which hed read and signed. Ive also looked  at the 
credit agreement Mr W signed. This included the wording I understand that the 
purchase of PPI and other insurances are optional and not required by us as a condition 
of entering into this agreement. It also had a separate signature box for any insurances,  
and Mr W signed to confirm he wanted PPI. The cost of the PPI was also set out 
separately on this agreement. So, on balance,  I think  Penrican Credit made Mr W aware 
he had a choice  about buying the PPI, and he agreed to take it out.  
Ref: DRN07485342Penrican Credit recommended the PPI to Mr W. And it seems to have been suitable for 
him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.  Mr W was entitled  to six 
months sick pay but the PPI wouldve paid out for up to the term of the hire purchase 
agreement for accident and sickness  claims  and for up to 12 months  for unemployment.  
So I think  the PPI wouldve  been useful for Mr W if he was sick or lost his job. 
The cash  price of the policy and the interest  payable over the term of the agreement 
were shown  on the document Mr W signed   but what the policy  cost a month wasnt set 
out separately, it was included in the total monthly payment.  However  Mr W was given 
the total amount repayable for PPI on the form and knew the agreement was for 36 
months. So whilst Penrican  Credit could have made  the monthly cost of the PPI clearer,  I 
think he was given  enough information  to understand  how buying PPI was going to 
increase the cost of his borrowing. As his circumstances  suggest  he may have had a 
need for the policy  and it was apparently affordable, I dont think Mr W wouldve made a 
different decision if hed been  given  better  cost information. And given how long the 
policy couldve paid out for, if Mr W made  a successful  claim he couldve got back quite a 
bit more than he paid for the PPI.
Mr W wouldve only got back a limited  refund  of the PPI premium if he cancelled the 
policy early. But I havent seen anything from the time the policy  was sold to suggest  he 
thought hed repay the loan early.  So I dont think this meant the policy  wasnt  right for 
him.
Its possible Penrican Credit didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But 
Mr W doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of those things.  So I think its unlikely  
he wouldve made a different  decision  if better  information had been provided  overall, 
I think he would  still have  taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mr W has lost out because of any problems with the sale.  I know there 
is still disagreement between Mr W and Penrican  Credit about where the sale took place, but 
I dont need to make a finding on this point  as it would  not change  my decision  for the 
reasons set out above.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0748534