K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the excess mileage charge applied by LeasePlan UK Limited  
(LeasePlan), trading  as Network, when he returned a car that hed been financing  through  
a finance agreement with them.
background
Mr W took receipt of a new car in September 2014. He financed the deal through a four year 
hire agreement with LeasePlan. In January 2018 the car was involved in an accident and 
was damaged beyond repair.
Mr W told LeasePlan about this and they provided him with a quote of £15,476.97 to settle  
the agreement. Their  letter said the quote had been calculated taking into account:
the months of the vehicles contract that had expired
the current market value
the actual  mileage figure supplied by Mr W at the date of write off 
So Mr W was disappointed when he subsequently agreed to pay the settlement figure but 
was asked to pay an additional £2,784.63 for excess mileage. He said the excess mileage  
charges had been included in the quote hed been provided.
LeasePlan didnt agree  so Mr W referred  his complaint to this service  and our adjudicator 
provided her opinion. She thought  it was clear that LeasePlan had included the excess 
charges in their settlement quotation  so she didnt think it would be fair for them  to apply  
additional charges.
But LeasePlan disagreed  and they therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint LeasePlan so please  let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a hire agreement. The hire agreement  is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The settlement  quotation  issued to Mr W in January 2018 said it took the actual  mileage 
figure you (Mr W) have supplied as at the date of write off into account.
Ref: DRN00008902It went on to explain there  were two options available  to Mr W to settle the agreement and if 
he invoked either of those  options, as he subsequently chose to do, they would terminate  
the vehicle contract  with effect from the date we receive your cheque, and monthly rentals  
will also cease  from that date. 
They didnt tell Mr W that hed be liable for excess mileage charges on top of this quotation 
and I think its fair to suggest that, having read the quotation; Mr W would have  considered 
that the settlement figure was all hed have to pay. 
I therefore dont  think it would be reasonable for LeasePlan to make a charge for excess 
mileage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell LeasePlan UK Limited  to 
cancel any charges for excess mileage and stop pursuing Mr W for payment of them.  
They should  ensure that any adverse reports theyve  made  to Mr Ws credit file, in relation to 
failure to pay excess mileage charges on time, are removed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0000890