K821x#15complaint
Ms L complains about the advice she received from Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter) 
(formerly known as Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd) in 2009 to transfer  her three  existing 
pension plans into a new AEGON pension plan. She also complains  about  subsequent 
advice she received to transfer that plan to another pension plan (Skandia) in 2014.
Ms L complains she lost valuable benefits  and was advised to transfer to a higher risk plan. 
She also says she has not received regular reviews.
background
Ms L met with Quilter in 2009.  She had existing  personal pension  plans and a work place 
stakeholder pension. One of her pension plans was a Scottish Mutual retirement annuity 
contract (RAC) which had a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR). She also had a Prudential  
with-profits personal pension and a Norwich Union  (now Aviva) personal  pension.
Quilter advised her to transfer three existing pension plans into a new AEGON  pension plan 
invested 100 percent  in the Newton  Balanced  Fund but to keep her work place stakeholder 
pension. Ms L followed  that recommendation and transferred her plans.
Ms L then met with Quilter again in 2014 (about four years  before her intended retirement 
date). Quilter recommended that she transfer  her AEGON plan to a new Skandia  plan 
invested 100 percent  in the Cirilium  Fund.
In 2016 an annual review was carried out of her portfolio and her financial circumstances  
and objectives.
In 2018 a claims management company  (CMC) complained to Quilter  on Ms Ls behalf.  It 
said the advice  given to transfer her three paid up pension plans to a new plan was 
unsuitable and that Ms L had lost valuable benefits.  It said the advice to transfer meant  her 
pension pot would be impacted by a significant  reduction in yield as a result of all the 
charges incurred when setting up a plan.
The CMC said this was made worse  by Ms L being  advised to transfer again in 2014 when 
the first AEGON plan had only been  in place  for 5 years. It also pointed  out that at the time 
of the second  recommendation  she was only four years from retirement.
The CMC also complained Ms L hadnt received the annual reviews  she had paid for since 
she took out the Skandia plan in 2014.
Quilter didnt uphold  Ms Ls complaint. It said its representative met with Ms L in 2008  and 
discussed her circumstances and objectives.  Quilter said the guarantees under the Scottish 
Mutual RAC  plan were  discussed with Ms L and she agreed  she was happy  to forgo those 
because of the lack of declared bonuses on that plan since  2000. It said the guaranteed 
benefit on the Prudential plan had been already been lost because Ms L had made the plan 
paid up in 2003. Quilter pointed  out the recommended  plan had outperformed all the existing 
plans over the previous five years.
It said the recommendation to transfer  the three  plans  into a new plan was with a view to 
easing the administrative burden  and in order to outperform Ms Ls existing plans,  which the 
new plan had achieved.
Ref: DRN01468512Quilter said the recommendation in 2014 to transfer  to a new plan invested  in the Cirilium 
fund was suitable as it had outperformed the AEGON plan with a 30 percent increase in the 
fund over the last four years. It said the transfer  to a new plan had been  carried  out with 
minimal adviser cost and a lower cost to access the recommended  Cirilium fund compared 
to the AEGON plan.
It also said Ms L now had a much more  flexible pension product allowing her to access her 
tax-free cash and take flexi-drawdown  rather than purchasing an annuity.
Quilter said that a review  took place in 2016  and a review report was prepared and issued to 
Ms L. It also pointed out the adviser  had been  in regular contact with more than 130 emails 
between the adviser,  Ms L and her partner since May 2013. Quilter said its adviser had 
continued to meet and speak with Ms L. It said if Ms L no longer wanted  to have her plan 
reviewed, she would need to contact the provider and have  Quilter  removed as the servicing  
agent and no further charges would be taken.
The CMC referred Ms Ls complaint to our service. It reiterated  that Ms L had lost valuable 
benefits and she had been advised to take out new plans when she didnt have many years 
to overcome the reduction in yield caused  by the setting up costs of the plans.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and thought it should  be upheld.  She said she wasnt  
persuaded Ms L would  have considered ease of administration  to be a good  reason to 
consolidate her plans. The investigator said that Ms L would have incurred costs by transferring 
her plans and she hadnt  seen any evidence  to show  Ms L had recouped  those costs.
The investigator wasnt persuaded  that Ms L would have benefited from the bonus  attached  
to the first recommended plan as it required her to hold the plan for nine years. She also 
noted Ms L had lost a GAR by transferring which the investigator considered to be a 
valuable benefit.  The investigator also noted the 7.3 percent yield required to equal the 
annuity income was quite  high to achieve.
The investigator also didnt think the existing choice  of 120 funds was properly investigated  
before recommending  the transfer to the second  plan in 2014. She noted the variety of funds 
was one of the reasons given for the first recommendation. So, the investigator  felt this 
should have been properly investigated before incurring further costs with the second  
transfer recommendation.
The investigator noted that, if Ms L had kept her existing plans, she wouldve had several 
benefit options at retirement.  Overall the investigator didnt consider the recommendations in 
2009 and 2014 were  suitable for Ms L.
Quilter disagreed and said that having  all her plans  in one place for administrative ease was 
a justified reason  for transferring the plan.  It also said that the recommended plans had out 
performed Ms Ls existing  plans.
As no agreement could be reached  Ms Ls complaint was referred to me for review.
I considered the complaint and issued  a provisional decision where I concluded  the 
complaint should  be upheld  as I wasnt persuaded that either the transfers in 2009,  or in 
2014, were either necessary or suitable for Ms L. I also noted that Ms L held a very valuable  
GAR in her Scottish Mutual  plan.  
Ref: DRN01468513So, I said Quilter should put Ms L back in the position as if she hadnt  transferred her three 
plans in 2009 or made a further transfer  in 2014. As it was not possible to reinstate her 
plans, I said it should compare what those original plans would now be worth with the current  
value of her pension plan, with account  being taken  of any contributions  Ms L had made 
from 2009 onwards.  I also said that the notional  Scottish Mutual plan value  should  be 
increased to take account of the valuable GAR  Ms L relinquished.
In addition, I concluded Quilter should pay Ms L £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ms Ls representative responded and accepted the provisional decision.  Quilter 
acknowledged receipt of the provisional  decision and made no further  representations. 
We then asked the three providers of the original plans to produce  a current notional  value 
as at 23 February 2021 as this date was after the provisional decision was issued. This was 
to ensure that the comparison could be carried out as set out in my provisional  decision, and 
compensation could be calculated. All three providers  have  now responded and provided 
that information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings  remain the same as those set out in my provisional decision.  Ill reiterate them  
as follows.
Ms L met with Quilter in 2009.  She was in her mid-fifties, employed and married. She had 
existing pension plans;  both personal  and occupational. Ms Ls intended  retirement age was 
65 so she had about nine years until retirement. She was employed as a secretary earning 
around £20,000 per annum.
Quilter recommended she consolidate three  personal pension  plans  into one new pension  
plan invested  in the Newton Balanced  Fund. In the suitability letter it said, in effect, that the 
performance of her existing plans  had been poor and the performance of the recommended  
fund over the same period  had been  significantly better.
Loss of guarantee
In its suitability letter Quilter recognised  that one of the three plans was a retirement annuity  
contract which provided a guaranteed annuity  rate. It said the new plan it was 
recommending would have to achieve a return of 7.31 percent more  than the existing plan to 
achieve the same annuity income.
But it said Ms L was content to give up the guaranteed annuity  because she didnt  like some 
of the features of that plan; the fact it was paid annually in arrears,  there  was no guaranteed  
period and there was no tax-free  lump  sum.
I consider the guarantee provided by the Scottish Mutual RAC plan was a valuable  benefit. 
The guarantee on that plan paid an annuity  rate of £94 per £1000  of pension  fund at the 
selected retirement age, when  the suitability report states at that time around £58 per £1000  
could be achieved in the open market. So, this was a significant difference.
Ref: DRN01468514While there  wasnt the option  of a tax-free lump  sum, I consider there was still a 
considerable benefit in receiving this guaranteed  rate of income when converting the value 
of the plan to an annuity.  I am not persuaded the fact it was paid yearly  in arrears would 
have made  it unattractive to Ms L, also because Ms L had other,  larger pension plans. So, 
she had other potential income streams.
Overall, I dont  think the reasons given for relinquishing this guarantee are particularly 
persuasive. I consider  the disadvantages  of the RAC plan were overstated and insufficient 
warning was given  to Ms L that it would be quite  difficult to achieve the level of return 
required to outperform the existing plan. Moreover,  I think the type of investment risk which  
Ms L would have needed to take in order  to achieve  returns 7.31% higher than the existing 
plan, at a time when  the FCA-prescribed  mid band projection for growth was 7%, would have 
been higher than Ms L was prepared,  or in a position, to take.  I think  if the value of the 
benefit had been explained properly to Ms L, she wouldnt have opted to transfer  the plan.
Performance of existing plans
The suitability letter from 2009  also indicates that the poor performance of Ms Ls existing 
plans was a reason for transferring them to a new pension plan.
It recorded that the Prudential with-profits personal pension plan (which  made  up the 
majority of the transfer value)  had bonus rates of 3.5 percent  in 2008 and 3 percent  in 2009.
The Scottish Mutual with-profits RAC plan had no bonuses declared  since  2000. It recorded  
the NU/Aviva plan was invested in property and ethical equity funds  which had cumulative 
returns of 1.4 percent  and -0.8 percent over the past 5 years.
It compared those  with the returns  on the proposed fund over the same period. The 
Prudential plan was a with-profits plan and had some  growth,  albeit the recommended plan 
had a higher level of growth over the same period. But there was no guarantee growth  on 
the recommended plan would continue at that level. In addition, the costs of the AEGON 
plan were higher  so it would have to perform  1.05 percent better each year to achieve  the 
same level as the Prudential plan.
I agree  that the RAC plan hadnt had a high level of growth with no bonuses being declared 
since 2000, but I dont think that gave the whole picture. Because,  as I have said, the RAC 
plan provided  a guaranteed rate of income  when converting the fund value to an annuity at 
retirement age. It also provided  the possibility of a terminal bonus at the end of the plans  term.
I can see that the NU/Aviva plan had relatively  low returns in the period leading  up to the 
recommendation. But I note this plan was invested  in only two funds.  I cant  see that any 
consideration was given  to switching to other funds to try and improve  the return rather  than 
transferring the whole fund. In addition, this was a small plan with a low transfer value. So, 
any fees or commission for financial advice would have a proportionally greater impact on 
the likely  return and would have made  it less worthwhile to transfer.
I also note the costs on the AEGON plan were higher  than for the NU/Aviva  plan.  So, the 
AEGON plan would need to perform  0.92 percent better than the NU/Aviva  plan to achieve 
the same  return.
Ref: DRN01468515Bonus
One of the benefits of the AEGON fund outlined by the adviser was that there  was a fund 
bonus payable  after seven years which increased up to a three percent bonus if the plan had 
been in force for nine years. But Ms L only had nine years to retirement  so it wasnt  clear 
that she would receive  this bonus.  For instance,  she might  have  decided  to retire  before age 
65. And in any event.  Quilter then advised  her to transfer to another  plan in 2014. So clearly 
it didnt think that benefit was that significant.
Benefits available under existing plans
I can see the illustration for the Prudential and the NU/Aviva plan shows a tax-free  lump  sum 
with a smaller yearly  pension as one of the options  available on retirement. So, I dont 
consider that transferring to the AEGON or SKANDIA plan gave Ms L a significantly wider 
choice of options.
Attitude to risk
The suitability report states  that Ms L wanted to be more adventurous with her investments. 
It also said she had 15 years until retirement  to achieve long-term growth on her plan. But 
this was incorrect as Ms L had around nine years  until her selected retirement age. Ms Ls 
representative complains  she was advised to give up her existing  low risk plans with 
valuable benefits  to take out a higher risk fund.
The recommendation by Quilter  meant  Ms L would increase her equity holding  from around 
40/50 percent  in the Prudential and Scottish  Mutual plans to up to 75 percent equities in the 
recommended AEGON plan. In addition, these were with-profit  plans which used smoothing 
to try and even out returns and minimise large fluctuations in value.
I dont doubt that Ms L was hoping to improve the return on her pension pot. I think she may 
have wanted to take a bit more risk with an affordable amount of regular contributions going 
forward. But Im not persuaded, talking in account her circumstances, that she wanted to 
significantly increase  her risk with a large  proportion of her existing pension pot. Ms L was 
employed as a secretary earning  around £20,000  per annum. Although she jointly owned 
one investment property  there is little to suggest  she had investment experience. Ms L had 
three paid up personal pension  plans  which she hadnt contributed to for some time.  In 
addition, her pension  pot had been previously spread out over three different plans investing 
in different funds,  together with her stakeholder pension. Whereas Quilters  recommendation  
was to put all her pension pot, save for the stakeholder pension,  in one fund. So, if that fund 
performed badly, the majority of her pension pot would  be vulnerable and impacted.
I think this is at odds with another reason given for the recommendation to transfer to the 
AEGON fund which was the number of funds and the diversity of the funds available. 
Because the recommendation didnt diversify Ms Ls pension pot. And had this been one of 
Ms Ls objectives, she could have achieved this by investing in different funds  within the 
NU/Aviva plan.
Overall, I am not persuaded that the recommendation to increase the risk on that much of 
her existing pension  pot, nine years  before her intended retirement,  was suitable, taking into 
account Ms Ls circumstances and objectives,  along with the option of making fund changes  
within one of her existing plans.
Ref: DRN01468516Charges for advice  and setting up costs
The illustration produced for the AEGON plan gave an investment value of £30,909 and
indicated the commission paid to the financial adviser was eight percent of the transfer value
and would be paid out of the charges.
It said:
For arranging the plan, we will pay your financial adviser commission on the starting  level of
contributions of: £2,472.72 immediately
We have asked Quilter to confirm whether the initial investment amount was reduced by this 
amount of commission, but it hasnt responded to our enquiry. It seems  from what  is set out 
in the illustration that this was taken from the charges levied on the plan.
The illustration showed the impact of charges and deductions on the performance of the 
AEGON plan. For instance, it stated the effect of deductions on an estimated investment of 
around £30,909 invested to retirement  age of 65, could be £8,410,  using an assumed growth 
rate of 7 percent.  This would reduce an assumed growth rate of 7 percent to 5.2 percent. As 
Ms L would only have nine years  to try and recoup the setting  up costs of the plan, there 
would be an impact on investment growth.
And the impact would be greater if the term of the plan was reduced,  as it was in Ms Ls 
case because of the second  transfer. So, in the illustration  where  the plan was only held for 
five years it stated the return could  be reduced  from an assumed growth rate of 7 percent to 
4.4 percent.
Recommendation to transfer to Skandia  Plan
Ms L met with Quilter again  in 2014. She was still working with an income  of around 
£25.000. Ms L was 61 years old, so only four years away, from her selected  retirement  age. 
This is a time when  consumers would often be advised to reduce  their risk. Quilter advised 
Ms L to transfer her AEGON plan and invest  the whole transfer value into a SKANDIA plan 
invested in one fund. That fund could  be made  up of a maximum of 80 percent equities.
Ms Ls attitude to risk is described in the suitability letter  as moderate. It described this 
as follows:
In general, Moderate  investors understand that they have to take investment risk in order to 
be able to meet their long-term goals. They  are likely to be willing to take risk with a high 
proportion of their available assets.
Moderate investors typically have a good level of knowledge about financial matters and 
they usually have some experience of investment, including  investing  in products containing 
higher risk assets  such as equities.
It is also recorded that Ms L agreed with this assessment because.  you prefer not to take 
large amounts of risk with your investments, though  you appreciate  that an element of 
market risk must be taken  in order to hedge your investments against the risk of inflation 
eroding the value  of your pension.
Ref: DRN01468517I think some  of the answers  given by Ms L to the attitude to risk questionnaire were 
contradictory, but several of them would suggest she was fairly cautious and inexperienced 
in investing. For instance, she agreed  that:
People who know me would describe me as a cautious person.
I prefer the safety of keeping my money  on deposit.
I have little experience  of investing in stocks  and shares.
When it comes  to investing I'd rather be safe than sorry.
Usually it takes me a long time to make  up my mind  on financial matters.
And she disagreed  with these statements:
I feel comfortable about investing  in the stock market.
I associate the word  'Risk' with the idea of Opportunity
I am willing to take substantial financial  risk to earn substantial  returns.
Overall, I consider Ms L was prepared to take a small level of risk, but I think  this fund 
posed more risk than she was willing  and able to take at that time particularly as she 
would have to recoup  the setting up costs  and give up a valuable benefit  on the RAC plan. 
In fact, the description of her attitude  to risk as above would suggest  to me that she would 
have been more at home  with the types  of fund she was originally  in with the Scottish 
Mutual and Prudential plans.
I also note that the recommendation was to invest all the transfer value of around £38,000 in 
one fund and to make regular  contributions  to that plan going forward.  So, whilst I note that 
that fund had performed well in the past,  I think there was a lack of diversification in investing 
the majority of Ms Ls pension pot in one fund especially as she was so close  to retirement.  
I also think that Ms L would, again, be trying to recoup  the setting up costs  and charges over 
a relatively short period  of four years. I think there  was a real risk this would be likely to 
impact her ability to make  a reasonable investment  return from her pension  pot.
So, overall, I am not persuaded on balance this was a suitable recommendation taking into 
account Ms Ls circumstances and objectives.
Reviews
Ms L took out the investment in 2014. At that time a fact find and an attitude to risk 
questionnaire was completed. A suitability letter was also provided  in August 2014. 
I can see a review then took place  in 2016. Information was collected  and an attitude to risk 
questionnaire was completed. A portfolio analysis report was issued in October 2016. 
Quilter has also said that there  was frequent contact between the adviser and Ms L with over 
130 emails being sent between them from 2013  to 2018.
Ms Ls complaint was made to Quilter in August 2018 which  I think had an impact  on the 
ability to have a review. Quilter informed  Ms L that if she no longer wanted the reviews, she 
should contact  the provider of the plan and have it removed as servicing agent. 
Ref: DRN01468518I think until the complaint  was made  in 2018  there  was regular contact  and discussion taking 
place between the adviser and Ms L, including  the review in 2016 and supporting  
documentation provided to Ms L as a result. I also note there  were  many emails going  back  
and forth.  Looking at the terms of the service provided by Quilter I consider it was made  up 
of several elements which included the annual review. So, overall, taking into account  the 
contact between the parties,  I dont think Quilter has failed to provide that service.
I also think once Ms L had made her complaint in 2018 Quilter made it clear to her that she
could cancel that service  and how to do that.
Summary
For the reasons  given  above, Im not persuaded that either the transfers  in 2009 or in 2014 
were either necessary  or suitable for Ms L. The very valuable GAR she held in the Scottish  
Mutual plan meant that the growth  needed  on those  transferred funds was unrealistic for the 
type of investment risk to which Ms L should  have  been exposed. The with-profits  fund in 
which she was invested with Prudential may have been achieving low levels of growth, but it 
still held the possibility of a terminal bonus at her chosen retirement date. And I think  this is 
the type of investment risk to which she was best suited, not only in terms of the answers 
she gave to the risk analysis, but also with regard  to her proximity  to retirement.
Compensation
I think fair compensation  would be to put Ms L back in the position as if she hadnt 
transferred her three  plans in 2009  or made a further transfer  in 2014. Unfortunately, 
because so many years  have passed  since the transfers took place it is not now possible  to 
reinstate her plans.  So, the alternative is to compare what those  plans would be worth now 
with the current  value of her pension plan, with account being taken of any contributions    
Ms L has made from 2009 onwards.
Mrs Ls representative has said that she would have been happy to make her new pension 
contributions to the Aegon plan, within the Newton  Balanced Fund,  so I only need  to 
consider the effect of the transfers.
The business should therefore  determine  the notional values (not transfer values) of the 
Prudential plan, the Scottish  Mutual  RAC plan and the NU/Aviva plan at the date of this final 
decision to ascertain how much those  plans would now be worth.
The aggregate notional value of those plans should be compared against the value of the 
Skandia plan, stripping  out the value represented  by the regular contributions Mrs L has 
made, again as at the date of this final decision.
The notional Scottish Mutual plan value  should  also be increased  to take account of the 
valuable GAR Ms L relinquished. To do this, Quilter  should increase  its notional  value by the 
percentage difference between the annuity rate Ms L would  be able to obtain on the open 
market using the same criteria as those  specified by the GAR provisions (at her current  age) 
and that which she would  receive  from the GAR (at her current  age). So, for example, if the 
GAR was 9% and the best available alternative in the open market  was 4.5%, the notional  
value of the Scottish Mutual policy should be increased by 100%.
Ref: DRN01468519If Ms L has suffered a loss by transferring, Quilter  should  either  ensure that the current  plan 
is topped up so that it has the same value,  allowing  for charges and any available tax relief,  
or if that isnt possible, by direct payment  to her with a notional deduction for the amount of 
income tax Ms L would pay in retirement,  which  I have assumed to be basic rate.
As I have said, Quilter should obtain  notional values  for the original plans  as at the date of 
this decision. And there should  be no reason it cant obtain those as the relevant providers 
have indicated they can provide those notional values. 
Trouble and upset
I consider it would have  been upsetting  for Ms L to find out she had lost the valuable  benefit 
of the GAR included  in one of her pension plans. Particularly as she was approaching 
retirement and income provision would have been important to her. So, I think  Quilter should  
also pay Ms L £200 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused her.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Quilter  Financial Services Ltd should  pay Ms L 
compensation calculated as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2021.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0146851