K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the mis-sale of three single premium payment protection insurance 
policies (PPI) taken  out with three personal loans.  
Im aware Mr C has complained about  a number of different financial products, so to be 
clear, this decision is about his three Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide) loans taken 
out in August 2002, February 2003  and December  2003.
background
Each time Mr C borrowed money  as above, Nationwide sold him a single premium  PPI 
policy alongside the loan. These PPI policies each offered protection against  Mr C losing his 
job or being unable to work.  
The three policies  cost £930, £1515  and £1815 respectively and Mr C had to pay the full 
cost of the PPI up front  on each occasion.  He also borrowed the money to pay for the PPI 
premiums from Nationwide.  
Our adjudicator recommended  we shouldnt  uphold this complaint but Mr C disagreed with 
this and asked  for an ombudsmans  final decision.
Id like to place on record how sorry I am that its taken this long for Mr Cs complaint to 
reach an ombudsman.  This will no doubt  have been  frustrating for him and I can understand 
why. I also know one of our managers has been in touch with him about some of the 
commission Nationwide has already agreed to pay him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
These events obviously  took place a long time ago and so I can understand and 
sympathise how difficult it might be for Mr C to remember  exactly  what happened. I say this 
because he says he was made to feel he had to take out PPI to get the loans approved. But 
Ive seen the three credit agreements he signed for each loan. All had the words Optional 
Credit Insurance directly above where the PPI costings were shown. In my view this was in 
a prominent position on each agreement.
My experience of these  types of loan is that they were first discussed  over the phone or in 
a branch setting,  with a credit agreement then given or sent out to the consumer based on 
that discussion. Mr C says he recalls some  meetings being  at a branch. 
Overall, I think the credit  agreements are very strong items of evidence that on each of the 
three occasions, Mr C would have been  able to see he had a choice. And Im afraid  I find it 
quite unlikely that he would have been told on three  separate occasions  that these policies 
were compulsory, when  they clearly  werent.
Ref: DRN06624502That view is further strengthened in having  had access to the scripts that Nationwide 
branch staff and call-handlers were  told to follow at the time when dealing with consumers 
like Mr C. These show me that the staff were told to explain the cover and to properly  obtain  
the consent of the consumer before adding any PPI. 
Of course,  we cant say for sure that these instructions were followed  all the time.  But weve 
seen quite a few similar complaints, and as a consequence weve looked carefully and in 
detail at Nationwides sales practices. With the benefit of having  looked at so many cases   
and the evidence Mr C signed three agreements which plainly  said the cover was optional  - 
I think Nationwide properly got his consent. 
Nationwide also had a responsibility to give Mr C enough information so he could make 
informed decisions about whether or not to buy PPI cover with the loans. 
The amounts (including  interest)  of both the loan and PPI part of the loan were set out on 
each agreement, as was the amount hed have to pay each month.  So I think  the costs 
wouldve been clear  enough for Mr C. And even if I accept that Nationwide could have set 
things out better for him, I dont think this would have mattered to whether  or not he would 
have still bought the policies. The evidence strongly points to Mr C wanting the cover on 
each individual  occasion. 
Mr C appears  to have been  eligible for the PPI on each occasion and not caught by any of 
the major  policy exclusions we tend to see. In the event of a successful  claim for accident / 
sickness, the policy could  have met the loan repayments until the loan was repaid. If hed 
become unemployed, he could have claimed for up to 12 months.  Cashing in the loans early  
resulted in a proportionate refund of the PPI.
Mr C said he already  had some sickness cover through  his job and Ive thought about this. 
Unfortunately this doesnt mean the PPI wasnt of use. Having looked carefully at these 
types of sale, we dont think  they were advised sales. As such, it was Mr Cs own decision  
about buying the PPI and hed have still received the benefits over and above any other 
means he had in place at the time.
I think the evidence  shows its much more likely Mr C agreed to have these policies when he 
was asking for the loans. I think the way the cover was then described for him and how the 
costs were disclosed wouldve allowed him to see he had options  and what  he was required 
to pay. Although I know he will be disappointed,  I dont think  they were  mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint for mis-selling any of these 
policies. My understanding is that Nationwide Building Society  has now agreed  to pay some  
compensation in relation to the commission it received. It should contact him about  this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0662450