K820x#14complaint
Ms A and Mr G complain  about their interest  only mortgage with National Westminster Bank 
Plc. They say it kept them  on the standard variable rate (SVR), which meant they paid too 
much interest and their balance was too high when they redeemed  the mortgage.
background
Ms A and Mr G had a joint interest only mortgage  with NatWest. They complain that it 
withdrew interest only mortgages, which meant  they couldnt get a new interest rate. So 
when their mortgage went on to the SVR they couldnt get a lower interest rate  so paid too 
much for their mortgage and werent  able to make overpayments. When they sold their 
property to repay the mortgage in 2017,  the equity  was lower as a result.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint. He said NatWest still made new 
interest rates available to existing interest  only customers. If Ms A and Mr G had applied  for 
a rate, he didnt see why they wouldnt have got one. Ms A and Mr G asked for an 
ombudsman to review  their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A and Mr G took their mortgage out some time ago. They  later borrowed more money, 
again on interest only terms. As a result, their mortgage had three  separate sub-accounts  
the initial borrowing  was sub-account 1 and the further borrowing was sub-accounts  2 and 3.
By 2011, the three  different sub-accounts had different  interest rates applying to them.  Sub-
account 1 was on a fixed rate until 2013,  and sub-accounts 2 and 3 were on variable rates  
until 2012. In each case, the sub-accounts would revert to the SVR when their interest rates  
expired.
In 2011, Ms A contacted  NatWest to ask about  taking new interest rates  for sub-accounts 2 
and 3 but was told that wasnt possible because those two sub-accounts expired  and were  
due for repayment  in 2012.
Later, the term of sun-accounts  2 and 3 was extended to match  sub-account 1, so that all 
parts of the mortgage fell due for repayment  at the same time.
In 2012, the variable rate on sub-accounts 2 and 3 expired and those parts of the mortgage 
went on to the SVR. By that point, the SVR was lower than the variable rate and so Ms A 
and Mr Gs monthly payments fell at that point.
Theres no record in NatWests internal notes that Ms A and Mr G applied  for a new interest 
rate in 2012,  when sub-accounts 2 and 3 went on to the SVR.
In 2013, the fixed  rate on sub-account 1 also expired,  and that part of the mortgage reverted 
to the SVR  this time with the payments increasing. Again, theres no record in NatWests 
internal notes of Ms A and Mr G applying  for a new interest rate.
Ref: DRN09467732Ms A and Mr G say that they did discuss their mortgage with their local branch, which has 
since closed. They say there were told they werent  eligible  for a new interest rate because 
their mortgage was interest  only and because of their age. Theyve referred  to press reports 
which say that NatWest withdrew  interest  only mortgages at this time  which they believe 
meant they couldnt  get a new rate
Theres no record of any discussions with the local branch. As NatWests  mortgages are 
managed through a central department,  I think its likely they would have been told to contact 
that department   and its contact details would have  been on their annual  statements and 
the letters NatWest  was obliged to send  when their monthly payments change.  Theres no 
record of Ms A and Mr G contacting the mortgage centre between 2012 and 2016,  and they 
dont say they did. But they knew to do so, as theyd discussed possible product switches 
and a term extension  in 2011.
NatWest did withdraw interest  only mortgages from around 2012.  But that just means it 
stopped offering them to new customers. It didnt require  existing customers who already 
had an interest only mortgage to give them up. Ive checked its available rates from the time,  
and it continued  to offer new interest rates to existing  interest  only mortgages throughout the 
time Ms A and Mr G were on the SVR.
At that time there was no obligation in the regulators rules or in wider industry practice  for a 
lender to contact  borrowers pro-actively to offer new interest rates or invite  them to apply for 
one. It was up to the borrower to contact their lender and ask for a new rate. I cant  see any 
evidence that Ms A and Mr G did that. Based on NatWests eligibility criteria for new 
products between 2012 and 2016, I think its likely they would have been given a new 
interest rate if they had applied.
I know Ms A in particular  is very upset about what she sees as the consequences to her of 
NatWest withdrawing interest  only mortgages. But as Ive explained, it didnt  it stopped 
offering them to new customers, but allowed existing mortgages to continue.  It may be 
because Ms A mistakenly  believed that that she didnt apply for a new rate after going  on to 
the SVR in 2013. But as NatWest wasnt required to offer a new rate unless she did apply for 
one, I dont think it did anything wrong and I dont  think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0946773