K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R complain on behalf of A, their limited company. Briefly, they say Lloyds  Bank 
Plc should not have sold A a fixed rate loan in 2015.  
background 
Mr and Mrs R approached  Lloyds  in 2015 to borrow money to buy a property. They  set up a 
company, A, and then A took out a loan over 25 years.  The loan was secured on the 
property, and had a fixed interest rate for the whole term.
Shortly after Mr and Mrs R bought  the property, they were  disappointed to discover that it 
was unlikely to generate  the level of income  theyd anticipated. They started  to consider 
putting the property back onto the market. 
In 2017, Mr and Mrs R complained that a fixed rate loan over a 25 year term was the wrong 
product for them. They want to sell the property, but they say the unpredictable amount of 
the break cost is hindering the sale.
Lloyds did not uphold As complaint. Lloyds  was satisfied that Mr and Mrs R had made  an 
informed choice in 2015, and it said it had done nothing wrong. However, it did make  a time 
limited offer to reduce  the break  costs  on As loan by £16,000.
Mr and Mrs R did not accept Lloyds  offer, primarily because they didnt think it was fair for 
Lloyds to apply  any break costs at all. But they also said A couldnt afford to accept Lloyds 
offer, because it had no way to fund the remainder of the break  costs.  They  referred the 
issue to our service.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. She thought Lloyds had provided 
enough information to alert Mr and Mrs R, as As directors, to the possible high cost of 
repaying the loan early.  Our adjudicator also thought that there were other factors which 
made fixing the loan attractive,  and that Mr and Mrs R knew about the disadvantages of 
choosing a fixed rate over such a long period before they took out the loan. Overall, she 
concluded that Lloyds had not done  anything  wrong.
Mr and Mrs R did not accept our adjudicators conclusions,  and did not accept Lloyds offer 
to reduce break costs. Instead,  they asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint. Their 
representative explained why he believed the information Lloyds had given Mr and Mrs R at 
the point of sale was at best unfair and at worst  fraudulent.
In the meantime, Lloyds offer to reduce break costs by £16,000 expired. Before considering 
the matter, I asked Lloyds  whether it was prepared  to reinstate its offer regardless of my 
findings. It agreed  but it also said that it was not prepared to hold its offer open indefinitely.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2018. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my provisional 
findings are:
Ref: DRN00430562Lloyds did not give any advice in respect of the fixed  rate loan. Amongst other 
things, that means Lloyds was not required to assess whether a fixed or a 
variable rate loan was more  suitable  for A.
Lloyds did give Mr and Mrs R information  in respect of the fixed rate loan  
but that information was not sufficient  to allow them to make a fully informed 
decision. The documents Lloyds provided  implied that break costs would 
depend solely on market movements. In fact, Lloyds margin  also had an 
impact on break  costs.
However, I dont think the missing  information  made any difference  to Mr and 
Mrs Rs decision  to take out the fixed  rate loan  and so I do not intend to 
uphold this complaint.  
I give more details about my findings below.
did Lloyds advise Mr and Mrs R to take the fixed rate loan?
I know Mr and Mrs R believe  Lloyds advised them to take out the fixed rate loan. But 
after considering all the available evidence, I dont think  it did.
Lloyds has given me a copy  of the slides for the presentation it says it gave to 
Mr and Mrs R before A took out the loan. I am satisfied  Mr and Mrs A did see those 
slides, which explain:
There  is the option to take the loan on a variable rate, fixed  rate or mixture of 
both. The following information is provided so that you can make an informed 
choice on how you would  like any loan to be structured. It is not, and should  
not be interpreted  as being,  advice  or recommendation  on how you should 
structure your loan.  
I can see that Lloyds  employees told Mr and Mrs R they were  happy  to chat through 
anything at all. I can also see that Lloyds provided Mr and Mrs R with a significant 
amount of information  about their options.  However,  I dont think any the information 
Lloyds provided,  either verbally or in writing, amounted to advice. 
Mr and Mrs R say they were scared out of the variable option after Lloyds showed  
them various graphs  and charts setting  out how much a variable  rate loan would cost 
at different  interest  rates.  I appreciate  that Mr and Mrs R were worried  by those 
figures, but again  I dont think they amounted to advice. 
Neither Lloyds nor Mr and Mrs R could have known in 2015 what  interest rates  would 
be for the next 25 years  or even for the next three  years.  Lloyds would have known 
what the market expected, but market expectations do not always play out. I see 
nothing wrong  in Lloyds telling Mr and Mrs R what the impact of higher rates would 
be on a variable rate loan.      
did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs R enough information to allow them to make an informed 
decision?
Lloyds accepts that it was required to give Mr and Mrs R enough information to allow 
them to make an informed  decision about As loan. Lloyds says it did that. In 
Ref: DRN00430563particular, Lloyds says it showed Mr and Mrs R the slide deck  I mentioned above, a 
repayment schedule,  and a document it calls a four quote process .
The four quote  process gave Mr and Mrs R monthly costs  for As loan in four 
different circumstances: a 100% variable rate loan at current  rates;  a 100%  variable  
rate loan if rates increased to a specified amount;  a 100% fixed rate loan; and a loan 
with 50% of the rate fixed with the other 50% variable at current rates. I am therefore 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs R knew that a variable  rate loan was an option for A.
The document also gave Mr and Mrs R the choice  of a base rate loan (at variable 
rates), or two types of fixed rate loan. They chose a commercial fixed  rate loan, and 
signed on 9 April 2015 to confirm, amongst other things:
I am unlikely to repay the lending early, in full or in part, during the fixed rate 
period and understand that if I do repay  early  during  the fixed  rate period I will 
be liable  for break costs,  as described  in the product profile, which depending 
on market conditions, could be substantial.  An indicative tailored break cost 
illustration has been provided within the quote  schedule to show how interest 
rate market  changes could affect the amount  of break costs I may be liable 
for.
The repayment schedule  contained an illustration  of break  costs  for the break costs 
in the event of a 1.0% fall in rates or a 2.0%  fall in rates during each month  of the 
loans intended  life. The example given for a 2.0%  fall in rates  during the first month  
of the loans life was a break  cost of £124,255.54. 
Similarly, the presentation included a table which Lloyds said was based  on a 
£408,538 loan fixed for 25 years with the need to exit before maturity. In order to 
provide you with the loan, Lloyds Bank will have committed  to the funding  in the 
market for 25 years  and will therefore  need  to replace the remaining years that are 
outstanding following termination. If this replacement cost is above 2.31% (cost of 
funds) there  would be no cost (but could be a potential benefit) to termination, 
however if the rate is below  2.31% then there  would be a cost to terminate the loan. 
The amount  of any breakage cost also depends on the time left to run until the end of 
the fixed term, and the notional  outstanding.
The table showed:
I know that Mr and Mrs Rs representative believes that the cost of funds Lloyds 
quoted on the day A took out its loan was incorrect. He has made  a number of 
comments about what he believes is the resulting skew, and he says the 
information Lloyds  provided to Mr and Mrs R was inaccurate.
Ive carefully considered  Mr and Mrs Rs representatives comments,  together with all 
the other information  available to me, but Im not satisfied that Lloyds  did misquote 
the cost  of funds . Mr and Mrs Rs representative provided a different  figure  for the 
cost of funds, but he did not explain  where  his figure came from. In the 
circumstances I am prepared to rely on Lloyds statement that the cost of funds  for 
As loan was indeed 2.39% on the deal date. (That is not exactly  the same  rate 
shown in the illustrations  but it is extremely common for rates to move in the hours  
Ref: DRN00430564or days between the provision of an illustration and the booking of a rate. I dont think 
such differences imply an error on Lloyds part.)
However, taken as a whole, I consider  that the information Lloyds provided was 
insufficient to enable Mr and Mrs R to understand the likelihood  of having to pay a 
break cost if A was to repay its loan early.
I asked Lloyds what the break costs would have been if Mr and Mrs R had repaid the 
loan immediately after taking it out. Lloyds told me that in that case:
the break costs the bank  charged would likely have been zero.  This is based  on: 
(i) on the assumption there was no movement in the market; and 
(ii) the bank  offering  a 100% discount  to the break costs  the customer 
would have  suffered due to the banks  margin included in the fixed 
rate. 
While in practice, the Bank did offer discounts to customers breaking [fixed rate 
loans] at an early stage of between 25% - 100%, you will appreciate  it is highly 
unusual for customers to seek to break so early.  Accordingly, the bank had no 
written policy  at the time on the discounts  to be offered. However,  a similar  
(though less than 100%) discount can still be seen in effect on 26 August 2015 
(ie four months later)  when [A] did seek a break cost quote.  The bank provided a 
break cost quote  for £5,119.62, which included a £16,000 reduction.  Given this 
reduction was offered  more than four months after entering into [the loan], the 
Bank is confident  it would have applied its unwritten policy that it would not have 
charged any break costs  if [the loan] had been  broken on day 1 of [the loan].
In other  words, the break cost Lloyds was entitled  to charge would, in practice, have 
been affected by both changes in the underlying market and the fact the banks 
margin was included in the fixed rate. 
I dont think the documentation  Lloyds provided  at point of sale made  that clear. 
Instead, I think the banks documentation implied  that the break costs would depend 
only on changes in the underlying market. Put another  way, I think  the documentation 
suggested that if there was no in change the markets expectations about future 
rates, there would be no break costs.  But that wasnt the case.  If Lloyds hadnt  
applied its unwritten  policy,  early repayment  would almost inevitably  have  resulted  
in a break cost.  I consider Lloyds should have made that clear  to Mr and Mrs R 
before they took out the loan.
would Mr and Mrs R have acted differently if theyd had more information about  break  
costs?
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  think  Mr and Mrs R realised that Lloyds 
break cost calculation wasnt solely based on market movements. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest that that theyd have made a different  decision if theyd had more  
information.
The break cost calculation is complex, and I dont think Mr and Mrs R had any real 
understanding of it. But before they took out their loan, they did see documents  which 
told them  the break cost could  be more  than £100,000. The actual break costs Lloyds 
has quoted to Mr and Mrs R are similar to the break costs shown on the illustration. 
Ref: DRN00430565Those break  costs  didnt  put Mr and Mrs R off, and so I dont think I can fairly 
conclude that slightly different  figures  would have  persuaded them not to take the 
loan.
I might  change  my mind  on this  or any other  aspect of As complaint in light of 
further evidence  comments  from the parties. However, it is unlikely that I will uphold  
this complaint unless  Mr and Mrs R are able to give reasons which  would explain 
why further information about  break  costs  would have  persuaded them not to take 
the fixed rate loan.  On the face of it, those reasons  would have to specifically explain 
why Lloyds failure to disclose  the impact of its own margin on the break costs would 
have made  a difference to them. I am unlikely to change my mind as a result of an 
argument that the magnitude of the break costs would have put them off  because, 
as Ive said, I already  know that they were  not put off by the knowledge  that break 
costs might exceed £100,000.
what happens next?
Both parties  now have  an opportunity to provide me with further evidence and 
arguments. Their  comments should  reach me by the date shown at the top of this 
provisional decision.
I will then consider the parties comments. If they cause  me to change my mind,  I will 
issue a second  provisional decision to explain why. If they dont, I will issue  a final 
decision confirming these  provisional findings  as final.
I note that Lloyds has previously offered to reduce As break  costs  by £16,000, so 
long as A repaid its loan within a certain period (which has since  expired). Mr and 
Mrs R explained that from their perspective, that offer was of very little use. They 
couldnt afford to fund the remainder of the break costs, so they couldnt afford to 
accept Lloyds offer.
I understand Lloyds  is still prepared to reduce As break costs by £16,000, but only if 
A repays  its loan within a short  period  after my final decision. I dont know  whether A 
is now in a financial position to be able to accept Lloyds  offer, nor do I know whether 
Lloyds is prepared to offer anything else as an alternative. 
My current  view is that, whilst Lloyds  has made errors, I dont think those errors 
caused the problems Mr and Mrs R complain about. So  unless the parties  
responses to this provision decision cause me to change my mind  it wouldnt be 
right for me to make  a financial award.  However, Lloyds has made  clear  that it is, in 
principle, prepared to do something to help A. If I ultimately  choose  not to uphold this 
complaint, I will nevertheless strongly encourage both parties to have an open  and 
frank discussion about what  help, if any, Lloyds is usefully willing  and able to provide  
to A.
Lloyds confirmed that it had received my provisional  decision, but it did not wish to make  any 
further comments.
Mr and Mrs R did not accept my provisional  conclusions. Briefly, they said:
They consider  that they have made only one complaint, about a series of actions,  
and all issues should have been treated as a single complaint.
Ref: DRN00430566Lloyds told them that they could only apply  for funding as a company, and A would 
not have been set up in the first place but for Lloyds  advice.
They remain satisfied that Lloyds advised them to take out the fixed rate loan. One 
member of Lloyds staff told them we cant give you advice but wink wink,  and then 
proceeded to give advice.  But that advice was all given  verbally, either in person or 
on an unrecorded phone line.
They asked Lloyds  if they could take a fixed interest loan with a fixed break fee, but 
Lloyds told them the only fixed rate loan they qualified for was the one they took.
Whilst Lloyds did tell them that a break cost was possible, it also told them a break 
benefit was possible   and it said that a break  cost was highly unlikely because 
interest rates were so low.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to further disappoint 
Mr and Mrs R, but having  done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as I did in my 
provisional decision. My reasons are the same as I set out in my provisional  decision, which  
I now confirm as final. I give some  further  explanation below.
In this decision, I am only looking  at As complaint about the sale of its fixed  rate loan. I know 
Mr and Mrs R would  have preferred the Financial Ombudsman Service to have considered  
all of their and As complaints at the same time, but I have no power  to consider the other  
issues again. One of my colleagues has already issued a final decision on those matters.  
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs Rs recollection is that Lloyds did give them  advice. However, 
after considering all the evidence Im not satisfied that it did. Lloyds told Mr and Mrs R in 
writing that it did not intend to give advice, and that they should not interpret any of its 
comments as advice.  Its clear that Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs R lots of information,  but I dont 
think it went so far as to recommend they choose  one option  rather than another. 
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs R about  all the financing  options available to A, but it 
didnt have to. Lloyds was required to give Mr and Mrs R enough information  to enable them 
to make an informed decision about  whether to choose the fixed  rate loan that they actually 
chose for A. Lloyds  was not required  to explain the risks and benefits of other  options  that 
might have been open to A; it was not required to give advice to either  A or Mr and Mrs R.
Im sure that Lloyds did tell Mr and Mrs R that a break benefit was possible  the table it 
provided had details of a break  benefit . But Im still satisfied that they knew a break cost of 
more than £100,000 was also possible.  I dont think they were able to assess the likelihood 
of a break cost, but they knew of the risk. They also knew  that they had the option  to take a 
variable rate loan, which carried  the risk that As payments would increase significantly if 
interest rates were to rise. They chose to accept the risks associated  with this fixed rate loan 
rather than the risks associated with a variable rate loan. On balance, I dont think  they 
would have made a different choice even  if Lloyds had given them more information.  That 
means I cant uphold their complaint. 
Ref: DRN00430567I recognise that Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances are now very difficult. Lloyds has made an 
offer to them, but they are not in a position to accept  that offer. Since  I havent upheld  As 
complaint, I cant make  an award. But I do strongly recommend that Lloyds and 
Mr and Mrs R have an open and frank discussion  about As circumstances, in the hope of 
reaching a mutually  acceptable resolution.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask As directors  to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0043056