K821x#15complaint
Mr K is unhappy about Mercedes-Benz  Financial  Services UK Limited charging him for
repairs to its car.
He also complains about the way in which MBFS dealt with him when he complained to it.
background
In September 2015  Mr K entered  into a hire purchase agreement with MBFS. As part of 
their agreement Mr K had to return the car to it at the end of the agreement in a good 
condition. The agreement was due to end in September 2018.
In preparation  for the return of the car, in August  2018, MBFS sent out an expert  to examine 
it. At this point there  was a chip on the rear alloy wheel. According  to Mr K, this expert, who 
I will call Mr H told Mr K a number of things: He said:
He wasnt an expert  when it came to alloy wheels.
Mr K should take the car to an expert  to get the alloy wheel repaired and 
MBFS would be fine with this.
To mark the vehicle  condition report  as disputed.
And to not sign the vehicle condition report.
Mr K got the alloy wheel repaired by a company he chose. He thought the repairer  was a 
specialist in this type of work. He also thought that the repairer was part of the wider 
Mercedes-Benz approved network.  
When the car was collected by MBFSs agent  (not Mr H this time), Mr K said he told it 
about the repair. The agent  noted  what he said and said this was alright. Then the agent  
drove away in the car.
Given everything that had happened  Mr K was surprised to find that MBFS subsequently 
told him the repair was not ok and that it was going  to charge him for a replacement. Mr K 
complained to MBFS about this, he also complained about MBFSs complaint  handling.
Mr K told us he found the whole episode upsetting and wanted compensation for this. He 
added he couldnt  see himself taking out another agreement  with MBFS after all of this. He 
suggested if the repair wasnt good enough  then he should be given back the repaired 
wheel as hed paid for it.
MBFS did not dispute that Mr K had had some  work  done. But it said a repair was not 
acceptable for this type of damage. But, purely as a goodwill gesture, it agreed to knock 
20% off the bill.
I looked at Mr Ks complaint in my provisional decision. I explained why I had no power  to 
look at the part of his complaint about  complaint  handling. I said as a result, I could look at 
that part of his complaint no further.
Ref: DRN02435312In the circumstances, I was persuaded that Mr K only got the repair  done  based on what  
hed been told by MBFSs representative Mr H. I think he relied on what he was told to his 
detriment. However, I also found  that it was reasonable  for MBFS to decline to accept the 
repair and to charge  Mr K for doing its own remedial work as the contract, that they had both 
agreed to be bound by, permitted  it to do this. But I also thought it had to fairly and 
reasonably refund Mr K for the repair hed had done, following its advice.
I also found that Mr K had experienced certainly inconvenience, and most probably distress,  
in having to go and find a specialist garage, getting the work done and then having the 
unpleasant surprise  of finding  out all of this was for nothing. I thought £200 was a fair and 
reasonable award here.
For all of these reasons I said I intended  to do final decision in which  I would say MBFS 
must do the following:
Refund Mr K for the repair work he paid for. The receipt he has sent us shows  he 
paid £114 for this work.
Pay interest on the £114 at the rate of 8% simple a year,  the interest to run from the 
date of payment  which the receipt  shows was 30 August  2018 until the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr K £200 for distress and inconvenience.
I invited both Mr K and MBFS to respond to my provisional decision.  They  both did.
In summary,  Mr K said if he had to pay for the wheel how was MBFS going to get it to him. 
He suggested  he was willing to take the matter to court. He also asked  once more,  if the 
repair made the car dangerous to drive how come  MBFSs  agent drove away  in the car, 
even after he had told it about the repair.
In short,  MBFSs response made  it clear  that MBFS didnt accept that Mr K had relied on 
the conversation  with Mr H. It asked  a question namely Why is it not reasonable for a 
customer to attempt to repair  the alloy without guidance from someone else? MBFS didnt  
agree that there was anything to back up Mr Ks version of events.  It follows MBFS also 
didnt agree I had any proper  basis to rely on it.
my findings
Ive considered again, all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN02435313Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It has been particularly  helpful that each of the parties took the time to set out their views on 
the redress which I proposed in my provisional decision, so that I have been able to gain a 
fuller understanding of their respective positions and concerns about the reasoning  and 
some elements of the proposed redress.
Im telling MBFS that it must refund Mr K for the alloy wheel he paid for. On that basis,  he is 
not out of pocket. It would  not be fair and reasonable for him to get a both a full refund and 
the alloy wheel back. In any event,  even if I thought MBFS should give him the wheel back,  
which I do not, it has probably disposed of the wheel, so most likely  could not return  it. It 
follows, Ive no proper  basis to ask MBFS to do what Mr K is asking for here.
Given how strongly Mr K feels about  what happened, he may want  to pursue the matter 
further through other routes.  Mr K has already mentioned going to court about his complaint. 
A court may take a different view of the situation.  Should Mr K not accept my final decision, 
then any rights he may have to take action in the courts against MBFS are unaffected.
I take Mr Ks point about if the repair made the car dangerous to drive, then why did MBFSs 
agent drive away in the car?  I cant answer that question, and I dont need to. I say this 
because, I think  I can rely on what MBFSs experts  who examined the car later on said.  
Those experts make assessments day in day out about what  is and isnt safe. I see no 
reason to doubt their analysis on this point.  
MBFS doubts that the conversation between  Mr K and Mr H took place and that he relied on 
it. It suggests there isnt sufficient information  either way to make a finding about this. I 
disagree. Mr Ks point rests on verbal  misrepresentation. By their very nature such  alleged 
verbal representations are hard to substantiate, and I therefore have to assess  this aspect  
on the basis of the balance  of probabilities.  
I have Mr Ks version of events. And I have  his behaviour at the time which was entirely 
consistent with what he told us happened. For example, after Mr Hs visit Mr K went to the 
repairers to have the work done. Plus, his reaction when he found out this had all been 
pointless also strengthens his position. He did dispute the vehicle condition report, and this 
was noted. On balance, I am persuaded by what he says about  this.
I think MBFS has misunderstood my reasoning. I am not saying in general  it is not 
reasonable for a consumer to decide about  what repairs  a car might need  before  it is 
returned. I am saying  in this particular instance I think  the non-expert  Mr K relied  on the 
guidance of the expert  Mr H. That seems an entirely  reasonable scenario here. The whole 
point of the inspection after all was for the expert to show the non-expert what  was wrong 
with the car and give him a chance  to get help to put it right.  I find it highly unlikely  that Mr K 
decided by himself  that the right way to sort out the fault was to go off to a specialist alloy 
wheel repairer.
Ive not been persuaded by the responses  I received  from Mr K and MBFS. It follows  I have 
reached the same conclusions for the same reasons as I did in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN02435314my final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited must do the 
following:
Refund Mr K for the repair work he paid for. The receipt he has sent us shows  he 
paid £114 for this work.
Pay interest on the £114 at the rate of 8% a year simple, the interest to run from the 
date of payment  which the receipt  shows was 30 August  2018 until the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr K £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Reduce the repair invoice by 20% as it has already  agreed  that it will do.
MBFS must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which Mr K accepts my final
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £200  from the date of my
final decision  to the date of payment at the rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0243531