K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
September 2019. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision,  so 
I will not repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. I havent  received 
anything further  from either Mr I or Satsuma.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with anything further I see no reason  to alter the conclusions  I reached in my provisional 
decision. I dont  think Satsuma was wrong  to give the loan to Mr I.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against Provident Personal  Credit  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09583872EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr I complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr I took one loan from Satsuma. He borrowed  £500 in January 2017  and agreed to repay the loan 
over the following six months. Mr I repaid his loan early and the borrowing was closed in March 2017.
Mr Is complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought  that the checks  Satsuma 
had done before lending to Mr I should have caused the lender to consider that Mr I was having  
serious problems managing his money.  So he didnt think it had been right for Satsuma to agree the 
loan and he asked the lender to pay Mr I some  compensation. Satsuma didnt agree with that 
assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved  informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Satsuma needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr I could  repay the 
loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably  have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma did a number of checks before it lent to Mr I. It asked him for details of his income and his 
normal expenditure. It gathered data from credit reference agencies about other credit repayments 
that Mr I would need  to make over the coming  months. And it then used this information to calculate  
how much  disposable income Mr I had left over each month. Satsuma also used the credit reference 
agency checks  to gather some more  information about Mr Is financial  situation at that time.
Ref: DRN09583873In saying  that I think it is important  to note that, generally,  the information  a consumer might see, 
when they request  a copy of their credit  file, might  be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender  
might only see a small portion of the credit file, or some  data might be missing or anonymised, or the 
data might not be up to date. So, this may explain any differences between the information  provided 
by Satsumas credit check to it and the information  that can be seen in the credit report  provided to us 
by Mr I.
The credit  checks that Satsuma did failed to show any information that might have suggested Mr I 
was having problems managing his money. The repayments  that were shown by the credit check  
didnt appear unaffordable  based  on what  hed said about his normal  income and expenditure. And 
the checks  didnt show any other concerning information such as a reliance on other short term loans,  
or delinquent or defaulted  accounts. 
I can see from the information Mr I has now provided  that his finances were under significant pressure  
at the time.  But that wasnt picked up by the credit check information that was given to Satsuma. And 
it wasnt something that Mr I told Satsuma at the time either.  I dont think  there was any reason for 
Satsuma to doubt the information Mr I had provided.
The repayments that Mr I had agreed to make on his loan were relatively  modest compared  to the 
income that hed declared to Satsuma. And, even after allowing for his other borrowing, the 
repayments appeared to be easily affordable.  So given these repayment amounts, what was apparent  
about Mr Is circumstances  at the time,  and his lack of borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it 
wouldve been  proportionate for Satsuma to ask him for the amount of information that would  be 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable.   So I dont currently think  Satsuma was wrong to give 
this loan to Mr I.
Ref: DRN0958387