K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr W says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this because  
Barclays has given us a copy  of the credit  card application and there  is a section to 
select or decline PPI. The PPI has been selected and Mr W has signed the application  
so I think this reflected  what  he wanted.  And if he didnt want  the PPI he could have 
questioned this at the time.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mr W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said but these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
Ref: DRN07306382But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0730638