K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (BG) failed repair  under her 
Homecare insurance  policy  and about BGs poor service. My references to BG include its 
agents.
background
In August  2017  Miss H had a gas pipe leak which was repaired by BG after some difficulties. 
Miss H has said those  issues  were dealt with in her previous complaint to BG.
In February 2018  Miss H smelt gas again and called her gas network  emergency  service. 
Miss H says they found a gas leak where  BG had done the gas pipe repair  in 2017. She 
says the emergency service  engineer  was very unimpressed with BGs 2017 joint repair  
which was falling apart. The engineer shut off and capped the gas supply. Miss H was 
without central heating and hot water during very cold weather.
Miss H phoned BG the same day and told it what  happened.  BG said its engineer would 
attend the next day. He attended at about 5.30pm  after Miss H had called  BG to chase. 
Miss H says the engineer hadnt been told he was coming to a gas leak situation so couldnt 
fix the problem  that day. BGs  engineer fitted  a new gas pipe the following day. Miss H says 
her heating and hot water  were restored about 50 hours after she was cut off.
Miss H has also complained about  how BGs  staff spoke to her on the phone.  She says they 
didnt treat her concerns  about the danger of the gas leak seriously and gave unsatisfactory  
responses. Miss H detailed how shed been  affected  by BGs poor service.
BG didnt  substantively respond  to Miss Hs complaint. She complained  to us. She would like 
her years  policy premium refunded as compensation for the distress  and inconvenience BG 
caused.
BG sent us some information. But it didnt provide important information  our investigator 
requested  details  about where the 2017 and 2018 leaks occurred and recordings of the 
calls between Miss H and BG. Our investigator gave  his view on the evidence  available. It 
appeared BGs 2017 repair to the gas pipe had failed and our investigator  thought  BG 
should pay Miss H £250 compensation.
Miss H accepted the investigator's recommendation for £250.
BG then gave us some  information about the location of the 2017  and 2018  leaks'  location.  
Our investigator asked  BG to clarify its evidence as its information appeared contradictory. 
BG didnt  respond.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator explained that as the problems Miss H had with BG in 2017 were dealt with 
in her previous complaint to BG weve only looked  into the problems she had with BG in 
February 2018.
Ref: DRN07835622Weve received very little evidence from BG on this matter despite our numerous  requests 
for further  evidence. BG has had long enough  to provide the additional evidence. Im making  
my decision  on the evidence I have.
I uphold the complaint. BG must pay Miss H £250 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience it caused. Ill explain why.
Miss H said the gas leak in February 2018  was in the same place in the pipe BG had 
repaired following a gas leak in August 2017. BG has now provided  some information about 
the location of the leaks.
BG told us that the 2018 and 2017 leaks were two different leaks in the pipework buried in 
the concrete flooring and the gas could have possibly come out of the duct in the same place 
giving the impression of the same leak. 
When our investigator asked BG for the engineers reports to show the two gas leaks  were  
separate BG sent us the job report notes. It also told us it had spoken to Miss Hs gas 
network emergency service who said the 2017  leak was found  on the copper inlet pipe to the 
iron pipe outside under the floor and the 2018  leak was found  at the outlet of the meter. 
But the engineer's job notes for the 2018  leak say traced leak to under concrete floor.  Our 
investigator asked BG to explain  the apparently contradictory evidence  as the 2018 job 
notes showed  the 2018 leak was also under the floor suggesting the leak might have been in 
the same  place.
BG didnt  respond  to explain. Looking at the overall available  evidence Im not persuaded 
that the 2017 and 2018  leaks were  in different locations.
On the available evidence, I think its more likely than not that the leaks  were in the same 
place which  strongly  suggests that BGs  2017  gas pipe repair  failed. So Miss Hs distress 
and inconvenience  due to having  her gas cut off in 2018 was due to BGs poor repair in 
2017.
The temperatures in Miss Hs home  town at the relevant time in 2018 ranged  between two 
and minus six degrees Celsius. It was very cold and Miss H would have been very 
uncomfortable with just an electric fire and relying on a kettle for hot water.
BG took two days to do the repair. Miss H said when BGs engineer attended on the 
26 February 2018 he wasnt able to do the repair as he hadnt  been told the correct  
information about her problem.  BG hasnt disputed  the issue so it appears that it caused a 
delay which  meant  Miss H had to spend  another night in freezing temperatures.  She was left 
without central heating and hot water for most  of the 27 February 2018 as well.
Miss H had to take time off work and make up the time shed taken off which was 
inconvenient. She hasnt  provided evidence to support her electric bills were substantially 
more due to the leak but its probable that her reliance on electric heaters for the 50 hours 
would have caused some  additional cost.
I understand that Miss H believes the gas pipe had been leaking over a period of time. She 
says shes been  very worried about a leak for several months. But I havent seen any expert  
evidence to support  the leak was long term and I dont know  when the leak started. I dont 
Ref: DRN07835623think BG needs to pay compensation for that matter and in any event I dont award  
compensation for Miss Hs worry about what  might  have potentially happened.  
However, a gas leak can lead to a dangerous situation and Miss H was anxious. It would 
have been reasonable  for BG to have  responded appropriately  when  Miss H raised her 
concerns. Miss H says BGs staff didnt  treat her concerns seriously  and their responses 
were unsatisfactory. Weve asked BG to provide the call recordings but it hasnt done so. 
Without evidence  to show the contrary,  I think its more likely  than not that BG didnt treat 
Miss H fairly during the phone conversations.
Overall, Im satisfied that £250 is a fair amount of compensation for BG to pay Miss H.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Miss H £250  compensation within  28 days of 
us telling it that Miss H accepts my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0783562