K821x#15Complaint
Mr C is complaining about Quilter Wealth Ltd (Quilter) because  he says he received 
unsuitable advice  from one of its representatives  to put money in an unregulated  investment. 
He says he was told the investment was low risk and that his capital was secure.
Background 
Mr C says that in 2010 he was approached  by an advisor, Mr L of Fermanagh  Tyrone 
Financial Services Ltd (Fermanagh  Tyrone), to discuss investments. He says Mr L then 
introduced him to Mr M of Diamond Estates  NI Ltd who visited him at home and advised him 
to invest £25,000  in an unregulated investment with Forestry for Life Ltd (FFL).
The FFL investment was designed to pay a regular income and Mr C says he received two 
monthly payments  of £250 each. Sadly, the investment then failed. Mr C says he didnt 
receive any further payments and it now appears  hes lost his money. I understand the 
person behind the investment was subsequently convicted of fraud.
When the investment  was being set up, Mr C says he dealt  with Mr M who at all times 
presented himself as working for Diamond Estates NI. Because  Diamond Estates NI was an 
appointed representative of Intrinsic  Wealth Ltd (now Quilter),  he thinks Quilter is 
responsible for his losses.
Quilter didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint. In summary, it said:
Mr M was actually  a business  development manager for a different business, 
Diamond Estates  Worldwide, and thats the business he was representing. Diamond 
Estates Worldwide  has never  been an appointed  representative of Quilter. Nor has 
Mr M ever been a registered  individual of or otherwise connected to Quilter. 
Consequently, it has no record of Mr C as a client or of him being advised by any of 
its representatives.
Despite incorrectly stating Mr M was representing Diamond Estates NI, the business  
card Mr C has provided does  correctly include the web address for Diamond  Estates 
Worldwide.
Correspondence from FFL saying  the investment was introduced by Diamond 
Estates NI is wrong.
When the complaint  was referred to us, Quilter also said we couldnt consider it because  
Mr C complained too late.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She was satisfied Mr C complained 
in time. She also felt the evidence  indicated  Mr M did advise Mr C about his investment, that 
he was representing  Diamond Estates NI when he did so, and that Quilter  accepted  
responsibility for Diamond  Estates  NI giving investment advice. She also concluded the 
investment wasnt suitable for Mr C and recommended Quilter compensate him.
Quilter didnt accept the investigators assessment and made the following  key points:
Ref: DRN05456822Mr C isnt a client  of Quilter and no evidence has been provided to show otherwise. 
But he was a client of Diamond Estates Worldwide for his FFL investment, as shown 
in a copy of the client  register  it has provided.
Mr C was introduced to Mr M, a business development manager at Diamond Estates 
Worldwide, by his financial adviser Mr L at Fermanagh Tyrone. Mr C says he 
believed Mr M was a financial adviser,  but his business card said he was a business 
development manager and doesnt  make  any reference  to him being an adviser. If 
Mr C believed the company name and the email address, both of which  were  wrong,  
were true, why didnt  he question  the two facts that were  correct, Mr Ms title and the 
website address of the company he represented?
As Mr C would have known from his dealings with Mr L, the disclosure 
documentation required  in order to demonstrate  an advisers status  as an authorised 
financial adviser doesnt consist of merely a business card and whats written  on the 
front of a folder. Mr M couldnt  have provided any evidence  that he was a financial 
adviser authorised  by the regulator.
Quilter cant  be responsible for information  printed on a business  card by somebody  
who isnt one of its registered individuals. The business card with two incorrect  
pieces of information printed on it doesnt  constitute financial  advice being provided 
by a registered individual of Quilter.
Mr C was referred to Mr M by his financial  adviser. If he believed  Mr M was also an 
adviser, why didnt he question why he was being  referred to another adviser? 
If any documentation exists in respect  of Mr C and his subsequent business dealings 
with Mr M and Diamond Estates Worldwide this will be held by them and they should  
be asked to provide  it.
No evidence has been provided to show Mr C received  any advice in respect of his 
dealings with Diamond  Estates  Worldwide.  As Diamond Estates Worldwide wasnt 
authorised or regulated, its not clear why his own adviser didnt advise him as he 
was authorised to do.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I though this complaint should be 
upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this decision. Mr C didnt raise any further 
issues in response  to my provisional decision. Quilter also confirmed receipt  of the 
provisional decision but didnt make any further  submissions. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party had anything  to add to 
my provisional decision, my conclusions havent changed.
My Final  Decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN05456823If Mr C accepts my decision, Quilter Wealth Ltd must pay him compensation calculated using 
the method set out in my provisional  decision.  It should provide him with details  of its 
calculations in a clear and understandable format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Jim Biles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN05456824Extract from provisional decision:
My Provisional Findings
Throughout this provisional decision, Ive referred to the rules I must  follow in assessing all aspects of 
this complaint. These are set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, published  as part of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook.
In reaching my provisional decision on this complaint, Ive relied  on the following key pieces  of 
evidence:
The appointed representative agreement between Diamond Estates NI and Mint Financial  
Services Ltd (which became Intrinsic and now Quilter).  This was signed  by the directors of 
Diamond Estates  NI, Mr and Mrs N, in September 2009.
Mr Ms business card that Mr C says was given  to him when they were  introduced. This 
describes him as a business  development manager  and says he works for Diamond Estates  
NI. It also includes a Diamond Estates NI email  address.  The web address for Diamond 
Estates Worldwide appears at the foot of the card. 
A welcome letter from FFL to Mr C dated 25 August  2010, confirming  his investment. It 
begins:
Thank you for investing £25,000 with us via Diamond Estates NI Limited,  who have 
discussed this investment with you.
A letter from FFL to Mr C dated 14 January 2011,  informing  him that it has been  advised  to 
cease all current  operations which  include freezing the repayments  made  to clients.
 
A letter from Mr C to Mr N, dated 22 March  2011, which says:
Having received  information from the Liquidators of Forestry for Life I would like to 
have some clarification  about  the status  of my investment. When  [Mr M] completed 
the paperwork with me last August it transpires  that the FSA were already 
investigating FFL, were you not aware  of this? I specifically asked if the company  
was underwritten and was assured that it was and that this was a low risk 
investment, otherwise I would not have been involved in it. I am seriously 
disappointed that having promoted this project that neither you nor the Fermanagh 
Tyrone Financial  Services have shown  the least concern for the distress that this has 
caused. You assured  me yourself in a telephone conversation that you had every 
confidence in Mr A, is this still your position? I have  referred this matter  to my solicitor 
and if need be will contact  the FSA to explain what has happened and how this 
project was presented to me.
A letter from Fermanagh Tyrone to Mr C solicitors  dated 4 November  2011,  which begins:
Further to your recent letter with regard to your client [Mr C] I can confirm  that 
Fermanagh Tyrone Financial  Services had no involvement with the advice in relation 
to the Investment with Forestry For Life Limited.
The advisor  concerned [Mr L] is a self-employed  financial consultant  with our 
practice, however, the advice surrounding  this investment was transacted 
independently by Mr L with his association  with Diamond Estates NI Limited.
An undated questionnaire completed by Mr C that was apparently for the police.
Ref: DRN05456825An extract  from what Quilter says is Diamond Estates Worldwides business register showing 
Mr C was its client for a £25,000 investment  in August 2010.
Ive also referred to an email  that came to my attention in another complaint against Quilter about the 
actions of Diamond Estates NI and alleged advice to invest in FFL. In that case, the consumer was 
advised to transfer existing pension arrangements to a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP) and the 
SIPP provider, Stadia,  wrote to Diamond Estates  NI on 15 August 2010  10 days  before FFL 
confirmed Mr Cs investment  had been finalised  and said:
It has been  brought  to my attention that The Daily Mail published an article this Saturday 
(14th) concerning Kate Middletons brother and an Investigation  by the FSA into Forestry  For 
Life. I will send a scanned copy of the article for your information. Stadias position is quite 
clear. On the 4th June, XXXX  and XXXX  from The investor Club visited our offices to discuss 
the requirements the FSA are looking  for from a SIPP operator and which should  have 
subsequently been formalised in-house  by The Investor Club.
If either party hasnt seen  any of this information, they can contact our investigator to ask for copies 
before responding to this provisional decision.
Ive also referred to the information Mr C has provided  about  his circumstances and financial situation. 
My understanding of his circumstances at the time he invested with FFL is as follows:
he was in his 50s and single,
he worked as a minister  earning around £1,500 per month after tax;
he had savings of around £50,000 on deposit and around  £15,000 in two charity bonds; and
he also had approximately £25,000  from a maturing diversified bond  with Northern Bank that 
was used  to fund the FFL investment.
Jurisdiction
There are two issues I must address in deciding  whether we can consider the merits of this complaint:
did Mr C complain in time?
and if so, whether Quilter can be held responsible for the alleged actions of its appointed 
representative. 
Ive considered all the evidence to decide whether this is a complaint we can look at. We dont  have 
jurisdiction to consider all complaints about  appointed representatives.  Our jurisdiction depends on 
the facts of the case and we have to make  findings on the facts that are material to jurisdiction in 
order to decide whether a complaint is one we can look at.
When we receive a complaint about the acts or omissions  of an appointed representative, all the 
usual jurisdiction tests apply:
Did the actions being  complained about take place when the representative  was an 
appointed representative of the principal?
Does the complaint relate to an activity we cover?
Do we have territorial jurisdiction?
Is the complainant  eligible?
In this case, Im satisfied  these tests are met. Mr C is an eligible  complainant, we have territorial 
jurisdiction and Diamond Estates NI was an appointed representative  of Quilter at the time of the acts 
complained about.
Its also important that I consider whether Mr C complained within  the time limits set out in our rules.  
Quilter has questioned this and Ive considered this issue carefully. DISP 2.8.2 says:
Ref: DRN05456826The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers  it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service  . . . more than: 
a)six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
b)three years from the date on which the complainant became aware  (or ought  
reasonably to have become  aware) that he had cause  for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman within  
that period and has a written acknowledgement  or some other  record of the complaint having 
been received;
Mr C invested in 2010  and it appears he didnt address a complaint to Quilter until more than six years 
after this. But I think his letter to Mr N (a director of Diamond Estates NI) dated  22 March  2011 shows 
he did raise  concerns with the business he believed was responsible for his investment shortly after 
he became aware it was failing. The DISP  rules  define a complaint as:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on behalf of, 
a person  about the provision  of, or failure to provide,  a financial  service,  claims  management  
service  or a redress determination, which:
(a)alleges that the complainant has suffered  (or may suffer) financial loss, material distress 
or material inconvenience; and
(b)relates to an activity  of that respondent, or of any other respondent with whom 
that respondent has some connection in marketing or providing financial services or 
products or claims management services, which comes under  the jurisdiction of 
the Financial Ombudsman  Service .
Im satisfied Mr Cs letter  to Mr N in March 2011  was an expression of dissatisfaction about  the role of 
Diamond Estates  NI in establishing his FFL investment and that it met the definition  of a complaint set 
out in the rules.  In my view, the fact hes been able to provide a copy of the letter is compelling  
evidence it was sent and received. On that basis, and in the absence of any evidence Diamond 
Estates NI issued a final response  letter in line with the normal complaint-handling rules, Im satisfied  
he complained in time.
Under DISP 2.3.1R, we can only consider a complaint under our compulsory  jurisdiction if it relates  to:
an act or omission by a firm in carrying  on one or more  of the listed activities, which  includes 
regulated activities;  or
any ancillary activities carried on by a firm in connection with those  activities.
Further, DISP 2.3.3  says:
Complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which  the firm 
is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firm... has accepted  responsibility).
So the issue  of whether  Quilter (the principal  firm) is responsible for the alleged actions of Diamond  
Estates NI (its appointed representative) involves a three stage test:
 
step 1 - identify the specific acts complained of;
step 2 - consider whether those acts are regulated  activities or ancillary thereto; 
step 3 - consider whether the principal  firm was responsible for those activities by reason  of 
s39 FSMA, agency  or vicarious liability.  
Ref: DRN05456827step 1  what are the specific acts being complained  about?
This complaint is essentially about Mr Ms alleged role in advising on and arranging  Mr Cs FFL 
investment and its suitability for his needs.
step 2  are the acts being complained about regulated activities  or ancillary  to regulated 
activities?
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) 
(Regulated Activities) Order  2001 (the RAO). The units in a collective investment scheme  (CIS)  are 
specified as investments (article 81). Advising on the merits of buying  or selling  these  investments is a 
specified activity (article  53). So is arranging deals in investments  (article 25), and agreeing to advise 
on investments or arrange  deals in investments (article  64).
 
The FFL investment appears to have many of the qualities of an unregulated collective investment 
scheme (UCIS) and neither party has disputed thats what it is. So Im currently satisfied that by either 
advising Mr C on this investment and/or helping  him arrange it, Mr M would have been carrying  out a 
regulated activity.
step 3  is the principal firm responsible  for these regulated activities by reason of s39 FSMA, 
agency or vicarious liability?
Ive considered what capacity Mr M was acting  in at the time of the regulated activities. From  the 
information provided, it seems he had a role with Diamond Estates  Worldwide, which I understand 
was an unregulated business that had no connection  to Quilter. But the business card Mr C has 
provided also appears  to show  he also had a role with Diamond  Estates NI. 
Ive noted what Quilter says about Mr M not having  a regulated role with Diamond  Estates NI, but that 
doesnt mean  he didnt represent it in a different  capacity. Not all representatives  of a business  carry 
out regulated  functions  and for those that dont,  their details  wont necessarily  be recorded  on the 
regulators register. So that means its possible Mr M had a role with Diamond Estates  NI and that this 
was the capacity he was acting in when speaking  to Mr C about  his FFL investment. 
On balance, I think  Mr C has provided  compelling evidence that shows this was likely  to have been 
the case. In addition  to his own recollection, which is evidence I need to take into account, this 
includes:
              
Mr Ms business card that Mr C says was given  to him when they were  introduced. This 
describes him as a business  development manager  and says he works for Diamond Estates  
NI and includes his Diamond Estates  NI email address. In my view, the fact he had a 
Diamond Estates  NI email address is compelling evidence he had a role with that business. I 
dont think the inclusion  of a different companys web address is sufficient to cancel out the 
overriding impression  Im left with that Mr M was representing Diamond  Estates NI in this 
transaction.
The welcome  letter  from FFL confirming the investment was made  via Diamond Estates NI. 
Quilter says this is an error in the letter but nobody from FFL has actually confirmed that and 
in the circumstances  Im inclined to take the letter  at face value.
I have taken note of the client  register Quilter  recently sent us with details  of a number of investors, 
including Mr C, who invested with FFL. But on its own, I dont think  the page provided is particularly 
compelling. It doesnt actually say Diamond  Estates  Worldwide anywhere  so I cant  be sure it is a 
record of that firms clients. Im also conscious its dated after the investment  was made.
Quilter has mentioned the possibility of asking Diamond Estates Worldwide for information  of any 
subsequent business dealings  it had with Mr C but I havent made those enquiries.  The main reason 
for that is that this complaint concerns the setting up of his FFL investment and I dont think  any 
Ref: DRN05456828subsequent dealings  if indeed there were any, which  currently seems unlikely   would necessarily 
indicate what  happened in 2010. If Quilter  thinks Diamond Estates  Worldwide may have more 
information thats  relevant,  its free to obtain  this through its connection  with Diamond Estates NI in 
the same way it did with the recently submitted client register.  Im of course willing  to consider any 
further evidence Quilter  can obtain before reaching my final decision.
On balance, I think  the evidence  we currently have  from the time of investment is more  compelling 
and means  its more likely than not that Mr M was representing Diamond  Estates NI for at least some 
of the time he was involved in advising on and/or arranging Mr Cs FFL investment.  This means that if 
what he did was business  for which  Quilter accepted responsibility, the acts being  complained about  
were also its acts.
DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include  those in respect of activities for which the firmis 
responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firmhas accepted responsibility). 
So a principal  is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its appointed representative 
in relation to the business  it has accepted  responsibility for.
On the subject of appointed representatives,  at the relevant time, section 39 of FSMA  said:
(1)If a person (other than an authorised  person)  
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which -
(i)permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii)complies  with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  
his principal  has accepted responsibility  in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility. (my emphasis)
So under section 39, the principal is required to accept  responsibly  for that business, which is a 
reference back  to business of a prescribed  description. However the recent case  of Anderson v 
Sense Network (2018) and the subsequent appeal judgement make it clear the words part of in 
section 39 allow a principal firm to accept responsibility for only part of the generic business of a 
prescribed description. In other words, Quilter was entitled  to appoint  Diamond Estates  NI as a 
representative and limit the scope of the regulated  activities it could carry  out and that it would be 
responsible for. 
Further clarification on this point was provided by the appeal judgement in the Anderson v Sense 
case, which  set out that only restrictions on what  generic business could  be conducted would  limit 
the principals  responsibility. In contrast,  restrictions on how that business is to be conducted dont 
limit a principals  responsibility.  In other words, a principal cant  avoid responsibility  for activities it 
authorised an appointed representative to carry out just because  those activities werent carried out in 
quite the way it wanted  them to be. 
Ref: DRN05456829In terms of this complaint  against Quilter, the above means I can consider it if the acts being 
complained about include business for which it accepted responsibility.
The appointed  representative agreement set out the terms of the arrangement  between Diamond 
Estates NI and Quilter  (Mint at that time). The agreement confirms the term appointed representative 
has the meaning established in section 39 of FSMA. In section 3, under  the heading  Appointment, it 
says:
3.1. The Company appoints the Appointed Representative for the purposes permitted by 
clause 3.2 of this agreement.
3.2. The provisions of Section 39(1) of FSMA shall apply  to this Agreement so the Appointed 
Representative shall only carry on the Permitted Activities set out in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Schedule 1 is entitled Permitted Activities  and says:
The Appointed  Representative is appointed and authorised to provide advice and make 
recommendations in respect of the following:
Protection  products (excluding  Long Term Care Insurance)
Regulated  Mortgage contracts
Investments & Pensions (excluding occupational  pension transfers)
Occupational Pension Transfers and Pension Opt Outs
The Appointed  Representative Is NOT AUTHORISED  in respect of the following  areas:
Long Term Care Insurance
Lifetime Mortgages
The FSA permissions of Mint Financial Services Ltd do not allow advisers to advise in respect 
of the following:
Discretionary Fund Management
Home  Reversion Schemes
Home  Purchase Plans (Islamic Mortgages)
My interpretation of this document is that Diamond  Estates (NI), as an appointed representative of 
Quilter, was authorised to advise on investments, which  would have included the FFL investment 
used by Mr C.
I take the point that Mr M doesnt appear to have had a regulated role with Diamond Estates NI. But 
Im satisfied the business he carried out when representing Diamond  Estates NI was business it was 
authorised to do and for which  Quilter  accepted responsibility. I realise it might not have been 
envisaged this type of business would be carried out by unregulated individuals but, after considering 
this issue  carefully, I dont  currently think thats sufficient for me to say Quilter  isnt responsible for Mr 
Ms actions.
In my view,  any attempt to rely on the fact Mr M wasnt personally authorised to do investment  
business for Diamond  Estates NI would effectively amount to relying  a restriction on how the 
business it was authorised for was carried out rather than what  business  Quilter was accepting 
responsibility for. For this reason, I dont think the fact Mr M as an individual (and not Diamond  
Estates as the appointed representative) wasnt personally authorised to carry  out these activities - 
meaning the generic business Quilter accepted responsibility for wasnt carried  out in quite the way it 
wanted - is sufficient for me to say its not responsible  for those acts.
Ref: DRN054568210In conclusion, Im satisfied the activities of advising on and/or arranging Mr Cs unregulated 
investment were regulated activities, that Mr M carried  out those activities, and that he was 
representing Diamond Estates NI when he did so. I further believe these  were activities Diamond 
Estates NI was authorised for by Quilter. The fact Diamond Estates NI didnt carry  out those  activities 
in the way it may have wanted - because Mr M did something he wasnt personally authorised  to do - 
isnt sufficient  for Quilter to avoid responsibility.
On balance, and taking everything into account, I think Mr Cs complaint  falls within  our jurisdiction 
and is one we can consider.
For the purposes of assessing jurisdiction, Im concerned  with what actually happened rather than 
what Mr C perceived took place. But in response to some  of the points Quilter has raised,  I would  say 
that while  it might be the case there were  inconsistencies  in the information displayed  on Mr Ms 
business card, Mr C doesnt  appear  to have been a sophisticated or experienced  investor  and I think 
its unreasonable  to suggest  he should have realised this. Ive seen nothing to indicate Mr C would  
even have been aware Diamond Estates Worldwide was a separate  company  or understood the 
potential significance of this. From the information he received, I think Mr C would even have been 
entitled to believe  the web address on the card was that of Diamond Estates NI. In my view,  Mr C was 
given a card saying Mr M was a representative of Diamond Estates NI and I think  he was entitled to 
take that at face value.
On the basis that Mr C wasnt a sophisticated  or experienced investor, I also think  its unreasonable to 
suggest his suspicions should somehow  have  been  aroused when the first adviser  he spoke to, Mr L, 
referred him to another adviser rather than arranging  investments himself. Or because  Mr M didnt  
provide him with other information thats normally required by industry rules to confirm  his status.  
Merits
In reaching a conclusion on the merits of this case, Ive carefully considered whether Mr C received 
advice from Mr M. As Ive said above,  article 53 of the RAO sets out that advising on investments is a 
regulated activity. The activity of advising  on investments is defined as follows:
Advising a person  is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a)given to the person  in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his capacity 
as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b)advice on the merits of his doing any of the following  (whether as principal or agent) 
(i)buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which  is a 
security or a contractually based investment, or . . .
In making his complaint, Mr C has said it was Mr M who introduced him to the idea of putting money  
into FFL and told him it was a low-risk  and environmentally-friendly investment from which  he could 
make a good return. If this is correct, I think that would amount to advice on the merits  of investing  
and would have been given to Mr C in his capacity as a potential investor, meaning it satisfied the 
definition of advice in the RAO.
Theres no formal documentation,  in the form of fact finds and suitability reports for example, to show 
advice was given. But equally, theres no documentation, such as an execution-only  statement, to 
confirm it wasnt. On balance, I think its more likely  than not that Mr C did receive advice  as hes 
described. Quilter doesnt  dispute  that it was Mr M who introduced him to the idea of investing  with 
FFL and Ive seen nothing in his circumstances or previous investments to suggest  he was a 
particularly knowledgeable or sophisticated investor. With this in mind, I dont think  its likely  he would  
have put a significant portion of his capital into complex, unregulated investments  without advice  as 
defined in the RAO.
Ref: DRN054568211In circumstances where its representatives  were giving investment advice like that given  to Mr C, 
Diamond Estates  NI had a responsibility to make sure what was being proposed was suitable for his 
circumstances and needs.  And if it wasnt, to make him aware of that.
In making his complaint, Mr C has told us he thought he was putting  money  into a low-risk  investment. 
But the FFL investment wasnt held in a well-diversified selection of equities  and other orthodox  
assets. It instead invested in a single  commodity that was based overseas. Further,  it was an 
unregulated investment  that meant he couldnt fall back on the protection  offered by the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme  (FSCS) if things  went  wrong. This was a high-risk, specialised  
investment of the type the industry regulator has said shouldnt have been promoted to 
unsophisticated retail  investors.
In the absence  of an assessment of Mr Cs attitude  to investment  risk, or any other advice 
documentation such as a fact find or suitability letter,  Ive no reason to believe he was willing to 
accept the degree of risk associated with investing a significant portion of his capital in this way. In my 
view, the overall proposition appears to present a greater degree  of risk than Mr C was willing  to 
accept and shouldnt have been recommended.
As Ive said above, Im also aware a SIPP provider wrote to Diamond  Estates NI on 15 August 2010  
ten days  before  FFL wrote  to Mr C to confirm  his investment  to explain that it believed  FFL was 
being investigated by the industry regulator. While  it wasnt  clear  what  the outcome  would be, I think  
the discovery that the investment was being (or was about to be) investigated  was something that 
should have caused Diamond Estates  NI (as represented by Mr M on this occasion)  to question the 
wisdom of Mr Cs investment. At the very least, I think Mr M should  have told Mr C about  this. If he 
had done, it seems there would have been time for him to change  his plans and I think  its unlikely he 
would have proceeded.
Taking everything into account, I dont  think  Mr Cs FFL investment would have happened if Mr M 
(representing Diamond Estates) had acted as he should have done when carrying out the regulated  
activities of advising on and arranging it. Its for this reason that I think  its appropriate for me to 
require Quilter  to put things  right.
I appreciate Mr C was also dealing with an adviser  from Fermanagh Tyrone, Mr L. But this complaint 
is against Quilter and I cant address the actions  of another  business here. I cant  currently be sure 
exactly what  role Mr L did or didnt play, but I think its significant  he didnt arrange  an investment for 
Mr C himself and instead  referred him to Mr M. I also dont think  the fact Mr L may also have been 
involved detracts  in any way from the failings  Ive identified in the conduct  of Mr M when representing  
Diamond Estates  NI.
Putting Things Right
My aim is to return Mr C (as far as possible) to the position hed probably now be in if he hadnt been  
given unsuitable advice. With suitable  advice,  I think he would  have invested differently. Its not 
possible to say precisely what Mr C would have done, but Im satisfied what  Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given his circumstances and objectives  at the time. 
what should Quilter do? 
To compensate Mr C fairly, Quilter should compare the performance  of his investment with that of the 
benchmark below and pay the difference  between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value,  no compensation  is payable.  Quilter 
should also pay interest  as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest.
Ref: DRN054568212investment 
nameStatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
FFL 
investmentno longer  
existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total  
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed  
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation  is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business  being 
notified  of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. As things  stand, it seems 
likely this will be zero and this is the amount Quilter would need to use in calculating  compensation. If 
its concerned Mr C may recover more money from his FFL investment in the future,  Quilter may 
request an undertaking  from him to repay it any further amounts  he may receive.  Id expect  Mr C to 
agree to such an undertaking and it would be for Quilter  to make any arrangements and pay any 
costs associated  with setting it up.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Quilter should  use the 
monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates  
should be applied  to the investment on an annually  compounded basis. 
I note Mr C says he did receive  two monthly payments of £250 and all withdrawals,  income or other 
payments out of the investment should  be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point they 
were actually  paid so they cease to accrue any return in the calculation  from that point on. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted a return on his capital without exposing it to a significant degree of risk.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted to 
achieve a reasonable  return without risk to his capital.  
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a fair measure  
for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr Cs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to take a 
small level of risk to attain  his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put him into that position. It does not mean that Mr C would  have invested 50% of 
his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider 
this a reasonable compromise  that broadly reflects  the sort of return  he could have obtained  
from investments suited to his objective and attitude to risk. 
Ref: DRN054568213.
additional compensation
I think  the failure to provide  suitable advice and the resultant loss of a significant  sum of money  has 
caused Mr M considerable unnecessary trouble  and upset and that he should  be compensated for 
this. The impact of this situation, and therefore the amount to award,  is difficult to assess. But in the 
circumstances of this case, I think a substantial award of £500 is fair and reasonable.
My Provisional Decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. I currently think Quilter Wealth  Ltd 
should pay Mr C compensation  calculated  using the method set out above.
Ref: DRN0545682