K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  Keith Simister  Personal Insurance  Services  (Keith  Simister) sold 
them a commercial property insurance  policy which didnt meet their needs. Mr and Mrs M 
say this resulted  in them losing out when they made a claim on the policy.
Mr M brings  this complaint on behalf  of himself and his business partner, Mrs M. 
Both Mr M and Keith Simister have representatives.  For ease,  any reference to Mr M or
Keith Simister includes the actions and comments of their respective  representatives.
Background
Mr and Mrs M are owners of a business which they run as partners. In my provisional 
decision I referred  to Mr and Mrs M as being  owners of a limited company, but they are in 
fact, a partnership.   
In 2014,  Keith Simister arranged  a commercial property insurance  policy for Mr M. The 
policy provided additional cover for freezer and cold room storage  for a combined sum of 
£58,000.
In February 2015,  when the policy was due for renewal, Keith Simister provided two 
renewal quotes  for Mr M to consider. The first was with Mr Ms existing insurer,  insurer  A. 
The second  was with a new insurer, insurer B. Mr M chose to take insurer Bs policy as it 
was cheaper.  But he says he did so on the understanding the policy provided the same 
level of cover hed previously had with insurer  A.
Mr M continued cover with insurer B the following year.  Unfortunately,  in March  2016 
Mr Ms commercial  property was damaged by a fire. When  he claimed on the policy,  he 
was made  aware  the policy didnt include freezer and cold room storage cover. And as 
such, insurer B didnt  cover the associated costs.
Mr M complained to Keith Simister. He said hed relied on information  it gave him, saying 
the cost of the insurance premium  was cheaper, and cover hadnt  been reduced. And he 
thought his cover included  freezer and cold room storage cover.
Keith Simister disputed  this. It said Mr M had visited its office and said the nature of his 
tenants business had changed and so he no longer needed freezer and cold room  
storage cover. Keith Simister said the policy with insurer B was based on Mr M having  
given this new information. It added that it was Mr Ms responsibility to check  the policy  
met his needs.
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and felt Keith  Simister hadnt  acted fairly. 
She said the renewal  invitation explained that while  the premium  was cheaper there would 
be no loss of cover. So, she didnt think Keith  Simister  had made it clear to Mr M the level 
of cover had been  reduced. The investigator recommended Keith Simister pay what  
wouldve been paid if a suitable policy with freezer and cold room storage cover had been  
in place
Keith Simister disagreed and raised the following points:
Ref: DRN012258322016 is the relevant policy schedule as this is when the claim was made.  The 
2016 policy doesnt have the guarantee that cover  would be the same  as 
previous years.
Mr M signed  both the 2015 and 2016  policy  and so had agreed  to the level of 
cover.
Insufficient weight  had been  given  to Mr M visiting Keith Simisters office and 
asking for the freezer and cold room storage to be removed.
Insurer A would only provide cover for food production, and so wouldnt have 
covered Mr Ms tenants change  in business venture.
Because Keith Simister  disagreed, the complaint  has been  passed to me for a decision. In 
my provisional decision, I said:
My provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive considered  
relevant industry  codes  of practice  and guidelines. Having done so, Im currently 
minded to not uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
2015 policy
Mr M says Keith Simister sold him a policy in 2015 which  didnt meet his needs  
and so hes lost out when  needing to make a claim in 2016. Mr M feels  the 
renewal invitation  made  it clear cover wouldnt be reduced,  and it was on this basis  
he agreed to changing insurance provider.
But Keith Simister says the 2015 renewal invitation isnt relevant to this complaint. It 
says Mr Ms claim was initiated in March  2016  and so this service should  only be 
considering the claim in light of what was said at the time of renewing the policy in 
February 2016.
While each renewal is a separate  contract  in its own right, I have looked at the 
documentation regarding  the sale of the 2015 policy as this is central to Mr Ms 
argument.
The renewal  invitation  says:
In an effort  to help you keep costs  down without reducing cover  and 
having surveyed  the present market we can offer an alternative 
renewal quotation  [].
Looking at the renewal  invitation in isolation, I would think it reasonable for Mr M to 
have assumed the level of cover  hadnt been  reduced even though the cost of the 
new policy was less than that being  offered by his existing provider, insurer A.
But in determining what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances I dont think 
looking at the renewal invitation  letter from 2015 as a stand-alone document reflects 
all the relevant circumstances for this complaint. To do so would potentially ignore 
Ref: DRN01225833relevant considerations such as those outlined  by Keith Simister.
Keith Simister has said Mr M visited its office  in 2015 and said the nature of his 
tenants business had changed from one of food production to a cash for clothes 
venture  and as such freezer  and cold room storage was no longer  required.                
Mr M refutes  this conversation took place.  So I need to determine, based  on the 
information available,  whether its more  likely  than not a conversation of this nature  
took place.
Mr Ms complaint is based on the letter dated 6 February 2015 and the wording 
about cover  not being reduced. But by the timeline  of events, it seems as though 
he did attend Keith Simisters office  after this date. I say this because  the statement 
of fact has been signed 10 February  2015.  A letter  of the same date confirms cover  
had been placed with a new insurer and enclosed with it was the statement of fact 
and schedule. Both of these are clear  about the £15,000 contents  for which the 
landlord is responsible.  Theres  also a remittance  advice form signed and dated               
10 February 2015. So, on balance, I think the documentation supports Keith 
Simisters position that a conversation took place  prior to the policy being agreed 
to.
I note both letters say advice had not been given regarding the suitability of the 
policy - which  means Keith  Simister  needed to provide  clear,  fair and not 
misleading information to allow Mr M to make an informed choice as to whether 
the policy was right for him. Ive said above  that the level of cover  for landlords 
contents was made clear  and so Im satisfied it was evident the policy didnt  
specifically provide freezer and cold room storage cover.
Both letters also said they should  be read in conjunction with the schedule, 
statement of fact and policy documents. So I think it was made clear Mr M needed 
to read these documents before agreeing to the policy.  Mr and Mrs M signed  the 
statement of fact. In doing so, as per the declaration, Mr M agreed the answers  
given to the questions  asked in the statement  of fact were true and complete to the 
best of his and Mrs Ms knowledge  and belief.  And theyd agreed to the terms and 
conditions contained  in the policy applying to the statement of fact. So, Im satisfied 
Mr and Mrs M had read the information  contained  in the statement  of fact and 
schedule.
Based on the above, Im satisfied:
 A conversation took place between  the parties  in which Mr M said he 
no longer needed  freezer and cold room  storage  cover.
 The statement of fact and schedule sent with the letter  dated  10 February 
2015 made it clear  the level of cover for contents  was £15,000.
  Mr M agreed  to this level of cover  because he signed the documentation.
As such, the letter dated 6 February  2015, upon  which Mr Ms argument hinges,  
becomes irrelevant because of the intervening contact between the parties and              
Mr Ms agreement  to the level of cover.
2016 policy
Ive looked at the renewal documents from 2016. The renewal invitation doesnt 
Ref: DRN01225834include the same wording (i.e. about cover not being  reduced),  so Mr Ms argument  
doesnt apply  here.  In any event, Ive explained  above why Im satisfied the 
inclusion of this wording doesnt  negate  the importance of reading and checking the 
additional sales documentations. When any policy is renewed there is an onus on 
the insured to check the information held by the seller of the policy  is correct.
As with the 2015 renewal invitation, the 2016 invitation says it is essential  that you 
read the attached / enclosed Renewal Schedule and Statement  of Fact. So, I think it 
was made  clear to Mr M that he needed  to look at all the documentation  he was 
provided with before  agreeing to the policy. And having looked at the statement of 
fact and schedule, Im satisfied the type and level of cover was clearly set out.
I know  my provisional findings will disappoint Mr M but based on everything Ive 
seen I dont think  Keith Simister acted unfairly when it sold Mr M the commercial 
insurance policy. As such, Im currently minded to not uphold this complaint.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint.
I gave both parties until 20 November 2019  to respond to my provisional  decision. Mr M 
supplied further  comment as follows:
Mr M denies  the tenants  trade  changed in January 2015 or that Keith Simister was 
told cold room storage and freezer cover  was no longer needed as a result of the 
tenants change  in business  venture. Mr M has provided a lease agreement dated 
January 2016  which  shows  the tenant  at the time was in the cash  for clothes 
industry. He says the tenant in-situ at the time of the February 2015 renewal was in 
food production. 
Mr M disagrees  that because the level of landlord contents was made clear in the 
policy schedule it was therefore evident the policy didnt provide cover for freezer  and 
cold room storage cover.
Mr M says it wouldnt make commercial sense to reduce cover in order to save a 
money in respect of premiums because items were not in use at a particular time 
Cold room storage and freezer cover  was appeared as an endorsement by insurer  A 
rather than under the contents section of the policy schedule. 
Keith Simister was at fault in 2015 and this affected the 2016  renewal.  Mr M says the 
lack of guarantee in the 2016 should  not be considered material.  
Mr M says Keith Simister  was in a better position to understand the cover being 
provided and that its not reasonable to expect Mr M to identify  omissions made by 
Keith Simister.
Keith Simister accepted my provisional  findings and didnt  add any further comment. 
Ref: DRN01225835my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having considered  Mr Ms further  
comments, I havent changed my mind about whether Keith Simister acted fairly when it sold 
Mr M a commercial  property insurance  policy. I want to assure  Mr M that Ive thought 
carefully about what hes said, but Ill only be commenting on points which  I consider  to be 
new or significant.
Mr M has said the tenants type of business hadnt changed at the time of renewing the 
policy in 2015.  Hes provided a lease agreement  dated January  2016 which  he says shows  
the tenant at the time of the 2016  renewal was in the cash for clothes industry.  Although he 
hasnt made  his argument explicitly  clear,  it would seem Mr Ms position is that if the tenant  
at the time of the 2016 renewal was in the cash for clothes  industry,  the tenant at the time 
of 2015 renewal couldnt have been  and was instead, still in food production. And so, he 
wouldnt have had a conversation about cover needing to be reduced in February  2015.
Ive looked at the lease  agreement and can see the permitted  user was warehouse  and 
distribution. Ive looked on Companies  House and can see the tenants business  is listed  as 
wholesale of clothing  and footwear.  So, Im satisfied the tenant at the time of the 2016  
renewal was most likely  in the cash for clothes industry. But this doesnt automatically mean 
the tenant in 2015  wasnt  in the same  industry.  Equally,  it doesnt  disprove that a 
conversation took place  about whether cold room storage and freezer  cover wasnt required 
in 2015. And from the evidence Ive seen,  my position remains the same in that I think its 
more likely a conversation took place in February 2015 which resulted in the level of cover 
being changed. 
Mr M has said cover for cold room storage and freezer  appeared in the endorsement 
section of his policy  schedule with insurer A, and not in the contents  section. I think  the 
argument Mr M is making here is that because cold room storage and freezer  cover didnt 
appear in the contents section of insurer As policy, it wasnt unreasonable  for him to notice 
it had been omitted  from insurer  Bs policy schedule as he wouldnt expect to see it under 
the contents heading anyway. 
Ive thought about this, but Im not persuaded it changes things. I dont think its reasonable 
to assume that because  cover was presented in a certain way with one insurer, that it would 
be the same  with another insurer.  As Im satisfied the information provided to Mr M was 
clear, fair and not misleading, I think he had enough information to make an informed  choice 
as to whether  the policy was right for him both in 2015 and 2016. And as I said in my 
provisional decision, Mr and Mrs M both signed  the documentation and so Im satisfied 
theyd read it and understood what they were agreeing to. 
I know my final decision  will disappoint  Mr and Mrs M, but for the reasons explained above 
and in my provisional  decision, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Ref: DRN01225836my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M on 
behalf of M R Zee Construction to accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2019.
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0122583