K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Mr and Ms C hold with Southern Pacific Mortgage  
Limited (SPML). Theyre unhappy with how SPML have  treated them  whilst theyve been in 
long-term financial difficulties; specifically theyve complained about the fees and charges 
that have been added  to their account.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 15 January 2020, which  is attached below and forms 
part of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I was minded to 
determine this complaint,  subject to the further  submissions of the parties by 
29 January 2020.  Neither party has made  any further submissions  for me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and in the absence  of 
any further comment from either party, theres  no reason for me to depart from my 
provisional conclusions,  so I dont.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, I uphold this complaint in only very limited terms.
In full and final settlement,  I order Southern  Pacific  Mortgage Limited to refund, back-dated 
for interest  purposes,  the fee of £35 debited on 23 March 2018. I dont make any other order  
or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08624402CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DEECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a secured loan Mr and Ms C hold with Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited 
(SPML). Theyre unhappy with how SPML have treated  them whilst theyve been in long-term 
financial difficulties; specifically theyve complained about the fees and charges that have been added  
to their account.
background
In what  follows, I have  summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, using my 
own words  to do so, and rounding the numbers involved. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a 
reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material  to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which, 
although presented as material, are, in my opinion  peripheral. 
Mr and Ms C have struggled with the payments  for most  of the time theyve  had the loan; at one 
stage, SPML obtained a possession order, but it hasnt  been enforced. In 2018,  by which time the 
original loan term had expired, SPML took Mr and Mrs C back to court  to get a new order. That was 
granted, and although Mr and Ms C have struggled since to keep to the terms of the court  order.  
SPML hasnt sought to enforce it. Mr and Ms C complained to us about  fees and charges  that have 
been added to the loan,  which mean, when  combined with extra  interest, they still owe a lot more than 
they originally  borrowed.
We began by explaining to Mr and Ms C that we would  only be able to consider  the fees charged 
since September 2012. They  accepted that events prior to that date were  time-barred  under our 
rules, and so our investigator focussed on what had happened since. Broadly speaking, he concluded 
that SPML  hadnt treated  Mr and Ms C unfairly, but when he analysed  the fees and charges it had 
added to their account,  he decided that some  of them  should be refunded,  backdated for interest 
purposes. 
Mr and Ms C have accepted the proposed settlement but SPML would like an ombudsman to review  
the complaint. It said that, with one exception, all of the fees the investigator said should be refunded 
had been applied in respect of months where no payment had been received from Mr and Ms C. That 
being the case, SPML argued that the charges had been applied fairly. The sole exception was a £35 
fee from March  2018, after the loan term had expired.  SPML agreed this should  not have been 
charged.
my provisional  findings
Ill start with some general observations. Were  not the regulator of financial businesses,  and we dont 
police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We deal with individual disputes  between businesses  and their customers. In doing  that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Thats why, in this case, we cant  consider any of the decisions 
the courts  have already  made in the possession proceeding s that have already taken place.
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  on how we investigate  a complaint. We 
conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions  without interference  from anyone  else.  But in 
doing so, we have to work  within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the remit  those  rules give 
us
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN08624403The starting  point is that lenders generally  are permitted under the mortgage terms to apply fees and 
charges to cover the additional cost of administering a mortgage  account that is in arrears.  Such 
charges are typically set out in a separate tariff of charges.  
But lenders also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where fees have been  applied in 
accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, well still give separate consideration  to 
whether theyve been applied  fairly. One situation where we generally find that arrears fees or 
charges havent been applied fairly is if more  than one charge has been levied in the same month.  
Another is if a charge is levied  for a month where the customer  has paid either  the contractual  
payment or a different  amount agreed as part of a payment arrangement. 
In asking  for a review, SPML hasnt tried to dispute our broad approach. Rather, its argued that the 
investigator made an incorrect assessment, in that he overlooked the fact that in the months he 
thought SPML had applied a fee unfairly, Mr and Ms C hadnt made their contractual  payment. Ive 
checked the account statements, and SPML is correct.
I appreciate this wont be welcome  news to Mr and Ms C, but what  this means is that the 
investigators assessment of their case was flawed. Theres only one fee that SPML has applied  
unfairly and should refund, and it is the £35 arrears management fee that was debited on 23 March 
2018, after the loan term had expired.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties, my provisional 
decision is that I intend  to uphold  this complaint  in only very limited terms.
In full and final settlement,  I intend ordering  Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited to refund, back-dated 
for interest  purposes, the fee of £35 debited  on 23 March 2018. I dont intend making any other order 
or award.
Ill finalise my decision  on the complaint after 29 January 2020, or sooner  if both parties confirm 
theyve said and provided  all they wish to that is materially new.  Theres no need for either party to 
repeat anything theyve already said.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0862440