K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Bank of Scotland plc has reneged on a previous offer regarding  
the mis-sale of a mortgage and an ISA to repay it. 
background
Mr and Mrs P complained about the sale of the mortgage and ISA. Bank of Scotland  upheld 
the complaint  and carried out a cost comparison  with a repayment  mortgage  the typical  
redress where these types of complaint  are upheld. Bank of Scotland  made  Mr and Mrs P an 
offer but they didnt think it was fair and so asked us to look into it. 
Bank of Scotland made a revised  offer to Mr and Mrs P which  we communicated  to them on 
6 February 2015.  We explained that Bank of Scotland  had offered to meet  any shortfall  on 
maturity (in 2020)  providing no loans had been  taken out against the ISA and all premiums  
had been paid. It also said it would carry out a cost comparison  with a repayment mortgage  
to see if they had lost out financially. Mr and Mrs P agreed to that offer. 
Mr and Mrs P cashed in their ISA in 2018  as it had reached the target value to repay their 
mortgage and Mrs P had become unwell. They asked Bank of Scotland to carry out the cost 
comparison which it refused to do as the ISA had been cashed in early. They complained  
but Bank of Scotland didnt uphold their complaint, although it did pay their early repayment  
charge. Mr and Mrs P asked us to look into the matter.
Our investigator initially explained we wouldnt look into a complaint again. And ultimately  
explained Bank of Scotland  wasnt required to carry out a cost comparison as the previous 
offer was contingent  on the ISA reaching  maturity, which  it hadnt  as it had been cashed in 
early. 
Mr and Mrs P asked  for a decision. In summary  they say:
This is about the mis-sale of the mortgage  not the ISA. 
The ISA reached  its target  amount and so they stopped paying the premiums and 
cashed it in. 
The offer isnt clear  that they cant cash in the ISA. 
Mr and Mrs P also requested a face to face meeting with the ombudsman. Our investigator  
sent out information on how to ask for a hearing  and notified them the matter was being  
referred to an ombudsman. We havent heard  from them further so I have assumed they no 
longer wish to request  a hearing.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although our investigator initially  found this wasnt a complaint we should take forward  he did 
ultimately explain the offer was contingent on the ISA being kept until maturity.  So as he has 
considered the actual  merits of the complaint, I will do so too. 
I do understand Mr and Mrs Ps original  complaint  was about the mis-sale of an interest only 
mortgage and an ISA to repay that. But it nevertheless remains  the offer Bank  of Scotland 
Ref: DRN03116212made was dependent on the ISA being  kept until the planned maturity  date. This is set out in 
the letter we sent Mr and Mrs P in February 2015. I dont think  the offer was ambiguous or 
unclear. 
I appreciate events have  taken an unfortunate turn. But cashing in an ISA isnt uncommon 
and is something Mr and Mrs P could have  accounted for when considering the offer. They 
decided to accept  it as it stood, when they didnt have to.  
As Mr and Mrs P havent kept the ISA until its planned maturity date, Im not persuaded 
Bank of Scotland has done  anything  wrong  in not carry out the comparison part of the 
original offer.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0311621