K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Loans.co.uk  Ltd (Loans.co.uk) mis-sold them a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy in July 2003 alongside a secured loan.
background
In May, I issued my provisional decision. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. The full background and details of the complaint are set out 
in that provisional  decision. But in summary,  in it I explained why I couldnt  consider all 
aspects of this matter and why as a result of only being able to look at limited requirements 
placed on Loans.co.uk, I was unable to uphold this complaint.  
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wanted me to take 
into account before I made my final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding
this case.
Loans.co.uk didnt  have anything further  to add to the points I made in my provisional 
decision.
Mr and Mrs B were  understandably very disappointed with my decision. In summary  they 
told me:
The loan with Loans.co.uk was taken out not long after they had taken a 110% 
mortgage. They said the additional funding from loans.co.uk was intended as a 
consolidation loan so they couldnt understand how they could borrow so much.
There was no way that they would have agreed  to the PPI if they hadnt  been told or 
it was implied it was a condition  of the loan.  They say they were never given a choice 
and Loans.co.uk  took advantage of Mr and Mrs Bs vulnerability as they needed  to 
take out the loan.
Mr and Mrs B say they couldnt  afford  the extra cost of the PPI especially  on a loan to 
clear other debts. This sum for the PPI was a huge additional cost plus interest.
Loans.co.uk hasnt  provided any documentation or evidence to back up 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. And an assumption had been  made that Loans.co.uk had 
adhered to the mortgage code.
By the time Mr and Mrs B signed  the agreement, they had accepted  the PPI was a 
condition of the agreement because this is what they had been told. So the wording 
on the final paperwork was just a formality.
The general description of the costs wasnt an issue as they knew  it was part of the 
arrangement to get their loan.
Ref: DRN04245532I have no doubt  that Mr and Mrs B feel strongly about their complaint  and have given me 
their honest  and genuinely  held recollection  of what happened.
As I explained in my provisional decision because of the dates that this PPI was sold I am 
only able to look at limited aspects of this complaint. At the time, Loans.co.uk was a member  
of the Mortgage  Code  Compliance Board (MCCB). Any complaints at that time were looked  
at by the Mortgage Code  Arbitration Scheme (MCAS). And in looking  at this complaint, I can 
only consider this matter  to the same extent  that MCAS wouldve been able to look at the 
complaints at the time of the sale.
This limits me to looking at the grounds set out by MCAS. These  grounds are set out in my 
provisional decision.
I have looked  again carefully at the points Mr and Mrs B made to see if there was any 
breach of the mortgage code. The first thing Ive reconsidered is whether it was presented as 
a condition of the loan.  Mr and Mrs B say there was no way they would have agreed to PPI if 
it wasnt presented as a condition  of the loan.
The actual paperwork Mr and Mrs B completed at the time is unavailable. This isnt unusual 
as businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. And where the evidence is 
incomplete I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  - that is, what  more  
likely happened. In my provisional decision I said I thought it was more likely that the sample  
paperwork was representative of the forms Mr and Mrs B saw when they made  their 
application. And theres nothing written on the form which makes me think it was presented 
as a condition  of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B say theyd already accepted  that it was a condition of the loan by the time they 
signed the forms. I cannot know  what the loans.co.uk representative  said to them when they 
applied. But I have  also considered that Mrs B did not take out the full PPI  she only took 
out life cover. That indicates to me that Mr and Mrs B made some choices and Mrs B didnt 
take out the PPI part of the cover .Overall, looking at the wording of the forms and what  
actually happened  I cant say it was more likely that the PPI was presented to them in the 
way Mr and Mrs B recall  as a condition of the loan, which  is entirely understandable as the 
sale happened many  years ago now.
Mr and Mrs B have  told me that the description  of costs werent in issue  as they knew it was 
part of the arrangement to get the loan.
As I have explained these  are the only two points I can consider. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs B but taking into account  the scope of the mortgage  code for looking at 
complaints like these, which I must  follow, I am unable to uphold  this complaint.
I have also thought about what Mr and Mrs B have said about the amount  of their borrowing 
and about needing to take out the loan  so Loans.co.uk took advantage of them. But I have 
looked at whether there was a mis-sale  of the PPI, not about  any unaffordable  lending. If 
they want to raise this as a complaint then they should complain to the business in the first 
instance.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN04245533Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN04245534COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Loans.co.uk Ltd (Loans.co.uk) mis-sold them a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in July 2003 alongside a secured  loan.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a loan for £25,000 over a period  of 15 years. The single premium  PPI policy 
cost £4,250  which was paid for up front and interest was added. The PPI covered  them  for a period of 
five years - Mr B for accident, sickness and unemployment.  It also covered him for life. The policy 
covered Mrs B for life only. 
Our adjudicator thought that this complaint  should be upheld.  He said that there wasnt enough  
evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs B were given  the opportunity during the sale to actively confirm  
that they wanted  to take out the policy. He also said there was little evidence to suggest that the 
product had been highlighted  as being separate to the loan.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B. I understand my provisional decision  will be frustrating  and 
upsetting for them but I am provisionally unable to uphold this complaint. I will explain  why I am 
unable to consider every  aspect of this complaint below.
We can only look at a complaint if it falls within certain criteria laid down in our case handling  rules. 
Our case handling  rules are found in the Dispute  Resolution section of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook.
The sale of insurance became a regulated activity on 14 January 2005 but I can look at the sale of 
insurance (PPI) before 14 January 2005 in some circumstances. Here, I can only look at complaints 
about PPI sales before 14 January 2005 when,  and to the extent  they were covered  by one of the 
schemes which existed before then,  known  as former schemes. When this policy  was sold to Mr and 
Mrs B in July 2004, Loans.co.uk was a member of the Mortgage  Code Compliance Board (MCCB) 
from 10 March  2000 until 30 October  2004. As a result,  complaints were dealt with by the Mortgage  
Code Arbitration scheme (MCAS).  And we can only consider this complaint to the same extent that 
MCAS wouldve been able to look at complaints at the time of the sale.  
The only obligations the Mortgage Code  placed on Loans.co.uk when selling  the PPI policy were 
those requirements that specifically refer to insurance. This is set out at section 3.2 of the code and it 
says as follows:
When providing information to help you to choose a mortgage,we  will give you the following  
a description  of any insurance  services which we can arrange (for example,  buildings, contents, 
mortgage payment protection  and life insurance);
whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such insurance be taken  out and whose 
responsibility it is to ensure  that it is taken out;
whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance must  be arranged by us;
Ref: DRN04245535a general description of any costs,  fees or other charges in connection with the mortgage which 
may be payable by you (for example, mortgage  valuation  fees, arrangement fees and insurance 
premiums)
So Im limited to looking  at the grounds above set out by MCAS and can be related to a breach of the 
Mortgage Code.
So I can consider the following points only here. I can look at whether the PPI was a condition of Mr 
and Mrs Bs loan - they say they were  told it was compulsory and they had to take it out to get the 
loan and I can also look at whether they were  told about the cost of the policy  - Mr and Mrs B have 
told me that they wouldnt have wanted to add such a huge  cost to their loan. If I find that they didnt 
receive a general description of the costs of the PPI I might be able to uphold this complaint.
Loans.co.uk is unable to provide the exact copy of the credit agreement Mr and Mrs B completed 
when they applied for the loan and the PPI. This is understandable as so many years have  passed 
since the time of the sale and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. But Loans.co.uk 
has sent me an example  of the credit agreement that it says would  have been similar to the forms Mr 
and Mrs B completed. This is dated from just before the time of the sale so I think  it more likely 
represented what they would  have seen  when  they applied for their loan and the PPI.
The form sets out the in the section headed Acknowledgments that if a Protection Premium Loan 
amount is shown in (B) above then: - (a) you have chosen to take Payment  Protection (PP) cover and 
you are eligible for the cover (c) you understand that you have  selected :- The forms gives various 
options. From  looking at the application  form this indicates to me that more  likely Mr and Mrs B had a 
choice not to take out the PPI and taking into account the guidelines of the Mortgage Code  I think 
Loans.co.uk did enough to show that it was not a condition of their loan. I am unable to conclude that 
there was a breach  of the mortgage code as I dont think its likely Loans.co.uk misrepresented the 
nature of the PPI so that it would have said it was a condition of Mr and Mrs B taking out a loan. So I 
cant uphold this complaint  for that reason.
Looking at the next possible reason to uphold this complaint I have looked  at whether Loans.co.uk 
breached the Mortgage  Code by failing to provide a general description of the costs. Looking  at the 
credit agreement it shows the cost of the PPI separately to the loan amount and it sets out interest 
and the monthly cost of the loan and the PPI. Overall,  I think  the agreement  provides a general 
description of the costs as set out by the Mortgage Code.
I am very sorry to disappoint  Mr and Mrs B but I want to reassure them that I have considered  
everything theyve told me. On balance,  I currently  dont  intend to uphold this complaint as I dont 
think theres enough to say that Loans.co.uk breached the guidelines set out in the Mortgage Code 
and this is the only thing I can consider. All in all, I am not minded to uphold this complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reason  Ive explained above, I currently dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 14 
June 2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0424553