K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  about  Zenith Insurance plcs handling  of her motor  legal  expenses  
insurance.
background
In April 2017, Miss B took out car and motor  legal expenses insurance (MLEI) through an 
insurance broker. The car insurance  was underwritten  by Zenith. The MLEI was underwritten 
by a separate business. The broker was also a separate business  and they administered  
both the car and MLEI policies.
In May 2017, Miss B was involved in an accident  and her car was a total loss. She made a 
claim for personal injury  against the third party involved  in the accident. Miss B said that 
when she phoned  to report the accident, Zenith  didnt tell her she had MLEI which she could 
use to pursue her personal injury claim. She said she instructed her own solicitor privately on 
a no win no fee basis. She said her agreement with the solicitor was that she would pay 
them 25% of any settlement  she was awarded.  She complained to Zenith. She said if Zenith 
had reminded her she had MLEI which she could use, she wouldnt have instructed her own 
solicitor and would have kept her entire  settlement.
Zenith initially upheld  Miss Bs complaint  and paid her £250 compensation. Although they 
said the solicitor she instructed privately had an obligation to check  whether or not she had 
any form of insurance to cover legal  expenses.  Miss B brought  her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators  considered it. He said that if Miss B did win a settlement and she 
paid her solicitor 25% of it, then Zenith should  reimburse her the amount she paid her 
solicitor. Zenith didnt agree with our investigators view. Subsequently,  Miss B told our 
service that her solicitor  told her they may only charge her £250  in fees. On that basis  our 
investigator had discussions with Zenith. Given Zenith believed  the most Miss B might be 
asked to pay to her solicitor was £250,  Zenith increased their compensation by a further 
£100 to a total of £350.
But once the personal injury claim concluded,  the solicitor  asked  Miss B to pay around  
£1,700 in fees. A different investigator looked  into the matter again and felt that the £350 
compensation Zenith paid was fair, so they shouldnt have to pay the solicitors fee. That 
investigator felt that the solicitor should  have carried out checks to see if Miss B had legal 
expenses cover. But the solicitor failed to do that. As Miss B didnt agree with our
investigator, the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 13 March 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Miss B, but Im not intending  to uphold her complaint. Ill explain 
why.
In her complaint, Miss B has made a number  of detailed points and Ive considered 
all those very carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the 
key issues. My role is to decide  if Zenith  have  dealt with Miss B in a fair and 
reasonable way.
Ref: DRN01898692As the underwriter of the car insurance  policy Zenith were responsible  for Miss Bs 
car insurance. Miss Bs MLEI was underwritten by a different  insurer, so Zenith had 
nothing to do with that policy. And both the car and MLEI policies were administered 
by the broker. In fact, Miss Bs policy said that in the event she wanted to make  a 
claim on either her car or MLEI  policies she should call a number that was provided.  
That was the number of the broker and not Zenith.
I therefore dont  think it was Zeniths  responsibility to advise Miss B that she had 
MLEI and that she could use it to pursue  a personal injury claim. The car insurance 
provided by Zenith only insured Miss B for loss or damage as detailed  under that 
policy. Personal injury  is an uninsured  loss that wasnt covered under Zeniths car 
insurance policy.
I think Zenith were mistaken in accepting that they should have told Miss B she had 
MLEI. I am aware that Miss B has brought separate complaints  to our service against  
the underwriter of her MLEI and the broker. As those complaints are being  dealt  with 
under different case references I wont comment on them here.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Zenith didnt comment.  Miss B said:
Her solicitor did check to see if she had legal  expenses insurance by sending her 
insurer a letter. But the insurer only responded by email and not a formal  letter.  She 
said the insurer then ignored her solicitor.
Zenith didnt pay her £350  compensation in relation to this complaint. They only paid 
her £250. The additional £100 compensation was paid to her in relation to a separate  
matter. 
There is a lot of confusion and she believes the insurers or broker or underwriters 
etc were in the wrong.  This matter has been  ongoing for three  years  with numerous 
parties involved. Zenith  didnt  respond to her final claims which shows  they are 
unprofessional.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. But I would like to respond  to Miss Bs comments as follows:
Im not aware of Miss Bs solicitor sending Zenith a letter. As Ive mentioned  in my 
provisional decision, Zenith insured  Miss Bs car and was not responsible for her 
legal expenses insurance, that was the responsibility of a different insurer.  So, I 
wouldnt have expected the solicitor  to write to Zenith.
After Zenith paid Miss B £250 compensation, on 28 September 2017 our investigator 
wrote to Zenith and said:
I have been considering your points raised  and spoken to Miss [B]. She has 
confirmed to me that after liaising  with the solicitor she appointed  they will 
only charge her £250 and not 25% of any future settlement figure. I 
understand you previously offered Miss [B] £250  as a gesture of goodwill, and 
that this will cover the costs she has incurred  as a result of not informing her 
on her original phone call that she held legal expenses cover with yourselves.  
However this will only put Miss [B] back in the position she would  have been  
Ref: DRN01898693had the error  not occurred and will not compensate her for the stress and time 
she has spent appointing her own solicitors etc. I therefore believe it would be 
a fair outcome to the complaint if you increased  the offer of compensation to 
£350. Please  let me know what you think by 5 October 2017. 
Zenith responded on 6 October 2017,  and said:
Thank you for your email.  I can confirm  we are prepared to increase the offer 
of compensation  by £100.00 on this occasion.  Please forward  the customers  
acceptance to us, when it is available.
This demonstrates  that Zenith had agreed  to pay Miss B an additional £100 in 
relation to this complaint and I understand they did pay that amount to her. But even 
if Zenith didnt pay it, Im not asking them to do so now because I dont believe they 
did anything wrong,  which is why Im not upholding the complaint.
I agree  with Miss B that there  are a number of parties involved; that it is confusing;  
and that it has been  ongoing for several years. But, as I said in my provisional 
decision, this complaint only concerns  Zenith and their actions. As Ive explained,  
there are separate complaints about the insurer of the legal expenses policy and 
about the broker. As those complaints are being  dealt with under separate complaint 
references, I will not comment  about  them here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.  
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0189869