K821x#15complaint
Mr D complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs  handling of his car insurance policy.
Reference to AXA includes their agents.
background
In February 2016,  Mr D took out car insurance online through a broker.  At the time, Mr D 
held a provisional licence and the policy he took out was specifically for young provisional  
licence holders. The policy was underwritten by AXA. The premium  was just under £5,000.
In early March 2016, Mr D was involved in an accident with another  vehicle and his car 
suffered damage. Both drivers said the other  was at fault and AXA started investigating.
In August  2016,  Mr D passed his driving  test and obtained a full licence. After  Mr D told AXA 
hed passed his test, they asked him to pay an additional premium of approximately £5,500. 
Mr D wasnt happy as he felt the additional premium was too high, so he didnt pay it. AXA 
then took steps  to recover the outstanding premium. Mr D also felt the investigation  into the 
accident to decide who was at fault was taking  too long, so he complained  to both AXA and 
the broker. AXA said that the broker was responsible for the additional premium.
AXA later agreed a 50/50 split in liability for the accident; meaning Mr D and the other  driver  
were equally  to blame. This meant  the accident  was recorded on the insurance database as 
a fault  claim against Mr Ds record. Mr D didnt agree with AXAs decision, he felt it wasnt 
investigated properly  and also felt the investigation took too long, so he complained.
AXA felt it didnt do anything wrong.  It repeated that the broker  was responsible for the 
additional premium  and said Mr D should  complain to them.
As Mr D was unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators  
looked into the complaint. In relation to the accident,  our adjudicator  said that AXA hadnt 
investigated properly  and their decision to split liability wasnt fair. Our adjudicator felt AXA 
should amend  the insurance  database to show the accident wasnt Mr Ds fault, and to pay 
him £250 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he suffered. AXA agreed with 
our adjudicators proposed resolution.
But Mr D asked for an ombudsmans decision,  so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 14 December 2018.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I intend to uphold  this complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
the accident
AXA have agreed  with our adjudicator that they didn't settle  the liability  matter fairly, 
so I don't intend  to repeat  the reasons for that here. So Ill limit my comments to what 
they need to do to put things right. AXA have agreed to pay Mr D £250 compensation 
and to correct the insurance database  to record the incident as non-fault  on Mr Ds 
Ref: DRN08844282insurance history. And I think thats  reasonable in the circumstances, so Im not going 
to direct AXA to take any further action concerning this matter.
increase in premium
Mr D was very unhappy with the increase in premium after he passed his test. AXA 
said that the broker was responsible for calculating the additional premium. But the 
brokers actions were  done on behalf of AXA, so as the underwriter AXA are 
responsible for the additional  premium.  So any complaint about an additional  
premium has to be considered against  AXA.
Where theres been a significant change in a policyholders circumstances, such as 
passing a driving  test, we think its reasonable for an underwriter to look again to see 
if theres been any change in risk and decide if that results in a change in premium. 
But were  not the industry regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is. And its 
not my role to say how much an insurer should charge, what  factors it should assess, 
or how much risk to attach to each of those factors. What we can do though,  when a 
consumer complains about the price  he or she has been charged,  is look at whether 
the insurer has treated  the consumer fairly and whether they can explain why they 
charged the price  they have. We can then explain to the consumer that weve 
checked the price  theyve  been charged  and are satisfied that theyve  been  treated 
fairly and in line with the way that the insurer has treated all their other  customers  
with similar  circumstances. 
But in this case AXA wasnt able to provide us with that information. Instead it 
appears to have simply matched a premium  quoted  by another insurer.  But at the 
time the other insurer  quoted a premium AXA still hadn't  decided  liability for the 
accident. So the other insurer treated that open claim as if it was a fault claim and 
factored that in when calculating a premium.  But without  that fault claim the premium 
would have been about £3,350. But AXA shouldn't have  considered  the open claim 
at all as it was only looking at a mid-term adjustment, and a claim that occurs during 
a policy  year should only have an effect on the premium on renewal and not during 
the existing policy year.
Its also not clear whether  or not AXA took into account the fact that Mr D had already 
paid roughly £5,000 for a full years insurance. Thats not something  the other insurer  
would have needed to think about.  But AXA should have done so. And I haven't seen 
evidence that it did that. So Im not persuaded that the way AXA calculated Mr Ds 
premium was the same as it would for their other  customers  and I don't think  thats 
fair.
So I intend to uphold Mr Ds complaint  about  the additional premium. I don't think  it 
was fair for AXA to charge  it and I will require them to not pursue him for it. I also 
intend to require AXA to pay Mr D £250 for the distress and inconvenience he has 
experienced as a result of the issues with the investigation into the accident and the 
additional premium.  Finally, I intend  to require AXA to correct any adverse records  on 
Mr Ds credit history  with the credit  reference agencies, if any, resulting from the 
demand for him to pay the additional premium.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr D didnt  comment on my provisional  
decision. But AXA said the following:
Ref: DRN08844283This was a non-standard broker led policy that was outside AXAs normal 
underwriting criteria.  
While  AXA underwrote the policy, the sale, service and administration was done by 
the broker on behalf of Mr D and not on behalf  of AXA.
When Mr D passed his test the broker should  have  got him a policy  with another  
underwriter, but they didnt.
On passing  his test, Mr D could have taken  out a policy  with another  underwriter if he 
wanted to.
Although they matched the other  insurers rate, but they dont have access to the 
other insurers premium breakdown.
This policy was a Price-Match  policy meaning  the premium was matched to the 
other insurer, which would  be the same  for all their customers in the same position.
AXA cant be held responsible for the brokers mistake in including the open  claim 
when they set the additional premium once Mr D passed  his test.
The original premium  paid by Mr D was taken into account  when the additional 
premium was charged when the mid-term adjustment took place.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same.
AXA accept  that they underwrote the policy, although they say the broker arranged it. But, as 
the underwriter,  AXA are responsible for the policy  and the premium,  not the broker.  AXA 
havent provided me with details of how the premium was calculated.  They  have said they 
dont have access to the breakdown of the premium as the policy  was price  matched to 
another insurer. AXA also accept there was a mistake in the premium as Mr Ds open claim 
was taken into account when the additional  premium was calculated,  when  it shouldnt  have. 
AXA said that other customers whose premiums  would have also been price matched with 
another insurer would have been treated the same  as Mr D. But without being provided with 
the details, I cannot  be sure that Mr D was treated fairly. How AXA arrange  their business 
with brokers and whether  they adopt premium  rates  by matching those of other insurers  is a 
matter for them. But I expect AXA to provide the details of how they have set a customers 
premium when asked.  AXA said that the original premium paid by Mr D was taken into 
account when  the additional  premium was charged  when  the mid-term adjustment took 
place. But no calculations have  been  provided to show  this.
Finally, AXA said that when the additional  premium was charged  Mr D didnt have to accept 
it and he could have  gone elsewhere.  But if Mr D had done that, being half way into his 
policy year,  given he had an open claim he wouldnt have  been entitled to a refund at that 
point. And, had he cancelled the original policy at that stage,  he wouldnt have known: if the 
liability decision would have gone  his way at a future  date; whether AXA would have made a 
full recovery of their outlay; and that he would have received  a refund for the time he wasnt 
on cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Ref: DRN08844284Write  to Mr D to confirm they are no longer charging the additional premium and 
have stopped any action to demand  payment for it from Mr D.
Pay Mr D a total of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  to 
him. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr D has accepted  my 
final decision. If they pay later than this they must  also pay interest  on that amount  
from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple1.
Take the necessary action  to correct adverse entries, if any, recorded  with the credit 
reference agencies  in relation to the non-payment of the additional premium. 
Take the necessary action  to correct the insurance database record,  if not already 
done so, to show Mr D wasnt at fault for the accident. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
  
1 If AXA pay interest and consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income 
tax from that interest, they should tell Mr D how much theyve  taken off. They should also give Mr D a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN0884428