K820x#14complaint
Mr V says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr V bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Vs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Vs complaint because:
The policy was sold to Mr V when he applied for his credit card online. Canada Square  
has sent us a screenshot that it says shows how the PPI wouldve been presented to 
Mr V. This is consistent with what I know of Canada Squares sales  processes at the 
time, and I think the screenshot  is reliable. It looks like, from the screenshot,  that Mr V 
wouldve been  presented with two equally clear options   to say yes or no to the PPI. Ive 
not seen enough  evidence to say that Canada  Square otherwise didnt present the PPI as 
optional or that it pressured Mr V. So I think Canada Square made Mr V aware  that he 
had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it, even if  understandably  
 he cant remember  that now.
Canada  Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mr V so it didnt have  to check if it was right 
for him.
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Mr V about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr V doesnt appear to have been  affected by the main  things the 
policy didnt cover   and based on what I know about  his circumstances it looks  like the 
policy couldve been useful to him. So I dont  think  better information wouldve stopped 
him buying it.
Ive taken into account Mr Vs comments,  including what  hes said about his sick pay 
entitlement and his savings. But I still think Mr V wouldve thought  the policy  could be useful. 
So for this reason, and the reasons explained  above, these points dont change my 
conclusion. 
Ref: DRN00802482my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0080248