K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain Liverpool Victoria  Friendly Society Limited (LV) unfairly  declined  a 
claim they made under the critical illness part of their life assurance  policy. As most of our 
contact has been  with Mr J, to keep things simple  my decision will refer mostly to him.
background
In 2014 Mr and Mrs J took out a level term life assurance policy  which included critical illness 
cover (CIC). The policy would pay £100,000 of benefit in the event that Mr J or Mrs J 
passed away or was diagnosed with one of the critical illnesses specified in the policy. 
Unfortunately, Mr J was diagnosed  with a cavernoma (a cluster of abnormal blood vessels) 
of the brain in October 2017. In November 2017,  Mr J made a claim for cavernoma  under 
the CIC part of his policy. LV declined his claim as it said cavernoma wasnt  one of the 
conditions covered by the policy. However, LV looked to see if Mr Js claim might instead  be 
payable under the stroke or minor stroke  conditions,  which  were  covered by his policy.  
LV gathered  medical  evidence  to asses this, which included:
A letter from Mr Js consultant neurologist dated 5 July 2018 which  said My opinion 
is that he did have  a bleed  in his brain from the cavernoma
A letter from Mr Js consultant neurosurgeon  dated 23 November 2018 which said 
'These findings  are characteristics for the appearance  of cavernoma which shows 
multi-aging blood supporting the ongoing  microhaemorrhages and dynamic changes'
The opinion of LVs Chief Medical Officer (CMO) on 29 November 2018 in which  
they said At some point,  the cavernoma  has bled but this did not cause injury  to the 
brain parenchyma
In December 2018 LV declined Mr Js claim,  as it said the medical evidence didnt show hed 
had a stroke  or that the haemorrhage (bleed) had resulted in injury  to his brain. Mr J was 
unhappy about that, so he complained  to LV. In its final response,  LV said it had been  
correct to decline the claim because cavernoma wasnt  covered by Mr Js policy  and also 
because he hadnt  been diagnosed as having  had a stroke or minor stroke. LV also 
addressed other points  Mr J had raised  about  the sale of the policy and how LV had handled 
his claim.
Mr J still didnt think LV was treating him fairly  so he asked our service to investigate  LVs 
handling and decline of his claim. The handling of the claim has been considered  separately  
by our service and so wont be considered here. Instead, this decision is only about LV 
declining Mr Js claim. In considering this point, our investigator spoke to both Mr J and LV 
and they both made a number of arguments. Ill summarise these.
Mr J said hed never claimed to have  had a stroke, this was instead  something LV suggested 
to see if his claim would  fit and the process  has caused him stress  and upset. And he said 
the letter LV sent him on 27 June  2018 saying the key thing for the assessment of your 
claim is establishing if your cavernoma  haemorrhaged  or not. unfairly raised his hopes of 
the claim being paid,  as it led him to believe his claim only depended  on whether his 
cavernoma had haemorrhaged or not, and not also on the haemorrhage resulting in injury to 
his brain.  Mr J also said the medical evidence shows he had a bleed within his skull and so 
he meets  the stroke policy  definition.
Ref: DRN05654182LV said cavernoma  isnt a condition covered by Mr Js policy  and so it could have just 
declined his claim outright. It said it instead  tried to help Mr J by seeing whether  his claim 
could be paid in some other way, possibly under the stroke or minor stroke  conditions 
which were covered under the policy. But LV agreed  its letter  of June  2018  was poorly 
worded and offered Mr J £500 for that letter incorrectly raising his hopes.
After looking into things,  our investigator  said LV had fairly  declined  the claim because,  while 
theres no dispute Mr J suffered a bleed within his skull, there was no medical  evidence  that 
it had resulted in the death  of brain  tissue as required by the stroke and minor stroke 
conditions. 
Mr J disagreed. He thought the policy wording said that to have a claim he must have been 
Diagnosed with having a stroke,  that had involved death of brain  tissue  due to inadequate 
blood supply OR haemorrhage within the skull. And since the medical  evidence  showed 
hed had a haemorrhage  within  his skull, he thought he met this definition. Mr J thought  LVs 
offer of £500 wasnt enough compensation for his distress and inconvenience,  so he wanted  
LV to also refund the seven months of premiums hed paid between  the letter of June 2018  
and LV declining his claim in December 2018. LV didnt agree to this. And our investigator 
thought £500 was fair compensation for Mr Js loss of expectation and that LV hadnt made 
an error in charging  Mr J premiums while considering  his claim.
Mr J disagreed with our investigator, as he didnt  think  £500 was enough compensation and 
he wanted LV to pay his claim since it had raised  his hopes. And LV asked  for this complaint 
to be passed to an ombudsman. Therefore, this complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Mr J has clearly had a very difficult and worrying time and I realise my decision 
will be very disappointing to him, but Ill explain my reasons.
Mr J was diagnosed  with cavernoma, and Ive seen thats not a condition his policy  covers. 
So Im satisfied it wasnt unreasonable  of LV to decline  his claim for cavernoma. LV has 
explained that it instead looked to see if Mr Js claim could  be paid out under one of the 
other conditions covered  by the policy - it thought  this might be possible  under either  stroke  
or minor stroke. 
That was ultimately  unsuccessful, but I dont think it was unfair  for LV to try to see if Mr Js 
claim could  be paid some other  way. Thats because it was trying to assist him rather than 
just declining  his claim outright,  albeit Mr J found the processing upsetting. 
Mr J believes  his policy says that in order to have a claim for stroke he must  have  been  
Diagnosed with having a stroke,  that had involved death of brain  tissue  due to inadequate 
blood supply OR haemorrhage within the skull In other words, he believes  a haemorrhage 
within the skull is sufficient on its own for a claim to be paid. 
Based on the medical evidence Ive seen  from the doctors who treated Mr J as well as LVs 
CMO, its not in dispute that Mr J had a haemorrhage within  his skull. But I cant  agree with 
Mr Js reading  of the policys stroke and minor stroke definitions, and his belief that a 
haemorrhage in the skull is the only requirement  for a claim to be paid. And Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN05654183The policy gives the following definitions for stroke or minor stroke:  
Stroke - resulting in permanent symptoms
Death of brain tissue due to inadequate blood  supply or haemorrhage within the skull 
resulting in permanent neurological deficit with persisting clinical  symptoms.  For the 
above definition,  the following are not covered: Transient ischaemic attack
Minor  stroke - definite diagnosis
We will payif you are diagnosed with having had a stroke, that has involved death 
of brain tissue due to inadequate blood  supply or haemorrhage within the skull. For 
the above definition the following  are not covered: 
-Transient ischaemic  attack
-Traumatic  injury  to the brain  tissue or blood  vessels
-Incidental findings where there is no evidence of cerebrovascular event during 
the term of the policy
In other  words, both definitions say there  has to be death of brain  tissue  caused by one of 
two things - either inadequate blood  supply  or a haemorrhage within  the skull. So a 
haemorrhage within the skull isnt sufficient  for a claim to be paid, in and of itself. And for the 
minor stroke definition, there  also needs  to be a definite diagnosis  of a stroke.
Ive seen nothing  in the medical evidence Ive been  provided with to suggest the 
haemorrhage Mr J suffered caused any death  of brain tissue, or that hes been diagnosed 
with a stroke. Therefore  I dont think  it was unreasonable  of LV to conclude that Mr J didnt 
meet either the stroke or minor stroke definitions of his policy  and to decline his claim on that 
basis. So I wont be asking LV to pay Mr Js claim.
But I think the letter LV sent Mr J in June 2018 would have given  him the impression his 
claim depended on whether hed had a haemorrhage in the brain or not, as it said the key 
thing for the assessment of your claim is establishing if your cavernoma haemorrhaged or 
not. Since its not in dispute that Mr J had a haemorrhage  in the brain,  I think  that letter 
would have raised Mr Js expectations that his claim was going  to be paid. But the letter  was 
incorrect because,  as Ive said, the policy shows there needed to have been death of brain 
tissue caused by a haemorrhage within the skull.
LV itself accepts that letter could have been better  worded and has offered Mr J £500 
compensation for it incorrectly  raising  his hopes. But Mr J would also like LV to pay his claim 
as he says it led him to expect, and hed like it to refund seven  months of premiums  as well. 
As Ive already  said, Im satisfied it wasnt unreasonable of LV to decline Mr Js claim so Im 
not asking it to do anything more about  that. But I think LV should compensate Mr J for the 
incorrectly raised hopes that letter  caused him. Taking everything into account, I think  the 
£500 LV has already offered is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for that. So 
I wont be asking it to increase that compensation, either in the form of refunded premiums 
or some other way.
Ref: DRN05654184my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0565418