K820x#14complaints
Mrs V complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) withdrew access  to her 
accounts via its Voice ID service and claims she hadnt previously used it. 
background
Mrs V says shes  used Halifaxs Voice  ID service  to access her accounts  for some time. But 
Halifax says she never  used that service to access her accounts  until she registered on 
29 March 2019.  
Mrs V complained and says she had to unnecessarily register  for a service she was already 
using on 29 March 2019. 
Halifax looked at Mrs Vs complaint but said she hadnt used Voice ID to access her account 
information previously  but agreed she had been given unclear information and paid her £50. 
Halifax said that in July 2018 Mrs V was registered to use the Voice ID service with a 
different bank that was part its group. But it said Mrs V hadnt used the service  for her 
Halifax accounts and wasnt previously registered.
Mrs V referred her complaint to our service and an investigator looked at what  had 
happened. He said Mrs V had used Halifaxs Interactive Voice  Recognition (IVR) system to 
access her accounts prior to registering for the Voice ID service  in March 2019.  The 
investigator went on to forward Mrs V some information about how the two systems  
operated. 
Mrs V asked to appeal her complaint so its been  passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax says Mrs V has used the Voice ID system with an associated bank since July 2018 
but wasnt registered to use its system until 29 March 2019. Halifax  has sent us its systems  
notes which  detail when  Mrs V registered  for the Voice ID system. Im satisfied that the 
evidence shows Mrs V wasnt  registered  for that service prior to 29 March 2019. In addition, 
theres nothing to show Halifax has removed Mrs V from the Voice ID service at any point.
Halifax has also said that before registering Mrs V could  have used  its IVR system to get 
information about her accounts. IVR differs from the Voice ID system but still uses a 
customers verbal instructions to assist with account  access. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs V but I havent seen any evidence  to show she was registered  for 
the Voice ID system before 29 March 2019 or that Halifax deleted  her access. As a result, 
Im not telling Halifax to take any further  action.  
Halifax paid Mrs V £50 because it gave unclear information when she complained. Taking  
everything Ive seen into account, Im satisfied thats  a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
Ref: DRN03335462my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0333546