K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them fee-paying 
Gold Service and Platinum packaged  bank accounts. They  say that they were told to 
upgrade to the Gold Service  account to keep  their overdraft and to upgrade  to the Platinum 
account as theyd be viewed in a better  light and that it would allow them  to increase their 
overdraft. Theyve also said that some  of the benefits of both accounts  were not needed.
background
Mr and Mrs Fs account was opened  as a fee-free account. It was upgraded to a fee-paying 
Gold Service packaged account on 17 September 2001 and then later upgraded to a fee-
paying Platinum  account on 12 November 2008.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  that the packaged accounts 
had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  and asked  for their complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is 
available and the wider circumstances at the time. Having considered everything that Mr and 
Mrs F and Lloyds  have said and provided,  I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Gold Service account
Having looked  through the complaint, its not entirely clear if Mr and Mrs F are actually 
complaining about the sale of the Gold  Service  account, as they have previously  said that 
their complaint is about the sale of the Platinum account and not about the Gold  Service  
account. But they have also said that they feel the Gold  account was sold on the same basis 
as the Platinum account. But, going on the basis that they are complaining  about  it, I dont 
think it was mis-sold.
To say the Gold Service account was mis-sold, I would need to be satisfied that what they 
have said i.e. they were  told to upgrade  to the Gold Service account  so they could keep their 
overdraft, was more  likely than not to have  happened. 
However, Mr and Mrs Fs recollections of the Gold Service sale dont  seem  that strong, 
which is understandable as it did take place many  years  ago. And I also note that the 
account was a sole account in Mr Fs name  at the time, yet it appears that Mrs F is the one 
who believes  it was sold on a similar  basis to the Platinum  account  but hasnt really 
elaborated on why she thinks this.
Ref: DRN07973222Looking at the bank statements, I can see that Mr F was using the overdraft both before and 
after the sale and in our questionnaire  Mr and Mrs F say they were occasionally travelling 
abroad. At the time, the account cost £8 per month  and provided  worldwide  travel  insurance, 
card protection, extended warranty and £100 interest free overdraft facility  and reduced 
interest rates on balances  overdrawn by more than £100. And it offered discounts on 
personal loans  between £5,000 and £25,000 too.
So given everything, I think it was more  likely  that Mr F agreed  to the Gold Service account 
because he was attracted  to some of the benefits  it came with. So Im unable  to say that its 
more likely than not that he agreed  to it because he was misled  into thinking that he had to 
have it to keep  his overdraft. 
Lloyds recommended the account to Mr F. This means it had to make  sure the account was 
right for him. And based on his circumstances at the time, I think that Lloyds 
recommendation was not unreasonable, as the Gold Service  account was the cheapest 
account Lloyds  offered  at the time that came with travel insurance. 
Lloyds also had to give Mr F important information about the account so that he could make 
an informed choice. Unfortunately, due to how long ago it was sold there is little evidence  
available to show what was discussed  or what information he was given. But as Mr F later 
went on to contact the travel insurer, I think he was at least  given information about  the 
travel insurance during  the sale. 
I cant be sure if Lloyds  gave Mr F all of the important information about the account and the 
benefits. But Ive not seen  anything  about  Mr Fs circumstances at the time that makes me 
think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had he been given more 
information about it. So on the whole,  I dont think that the Gold  Service account was mis-
sold.
   
Platinum account
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint is largely focused on the sale of the Platinum account. They say 
that they were  told in Branch that they had to upgrade their account to a Platinum account so 
that they could  increase their overdraft.  And I acknowledge  that they did increase their 
overdraft on the same day that their account  was upgraded. However,  just because the 
overdraft increased on the same  day this doesnt mean that their account mustve been mis-
sold - which is what  Mr and Mrs F have  said.
Instead I have  to weigh up what Mr and Mrs F have  said about what  they were  told during 
the sale of the Platinum  account, along with all of the other evidence  that is available.  And I 
note that although the Platinum account  was sold more  recently  than the Gold  Service  
account was, it was still sold over ten years ago. So I have to take into account the 
possibility that memories can fade, and change, over time.
Around the time of the sale, Mr and Mrs Fs arranged overdraft facility increased  from £3,700  
to £3,850. However prior to then, I can see that Mr and Mrs F occasionally  increased their 
arranged overdraft facility.  So I think that in November 2008, they were aware that they 
could apply to increase  their overdraft without the need to upgrade  their account each time 
they wanted to. So I think they were likely to have been aware that the ability to increase 
their overdraft was not affected by the type of account they held. 
Ref: DRN07973223In November 2008, the Platinum account  cost £17 per month (£5 per month more than the 
Gold Service account) and provided worldwide travel insurance  (with a choice of family  
cover or winter  sports  cover), enhanced breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and card 
protection. It also offered a £250  interest  free overdraft benefit, and provided a reduced  
interest rate on balances  overdrawn by more than £250.
Mr and Mrs F have  said that the Platinum  account was sold to them during an account  
review. But, although  the customer notes suggest that there  was an account  review around 
the time of the sale, the notes also show that the sale didnt take place during the account 
review, but actually took place during an inbound call with Mr F. The notes of the call say: Jt 
Gold to Plat to save on o/d charges as well as extra benefits on travel ins. Aa etc. £12 for 3 
months then £17. Mr F aware So the notes suggest that Mr F agreed to the Platinum 
account because  of the overdraft benefit it provided but also because  of the travel insurance 
and breakdown cover it offered. And the notes  also suggest that the account  wasnt sold 
quite how Mr and Mrs F recall it to have been.
Prior to the sale, I can see that Mr and Mrs F had paid to add family travel cover to the travel  
insurance that came with the Gold Service account.  Indeed, the most recent family travel 
cover upgraded theyd  paid for expired in September 2008. And Mr and Mrs F went on to 
use the breakdown  cover  a number of times after theyd upgraded to the Platinum account  
as well. This included  the use of Home Start  which was an enhanced feature that wasnt  
available on the Gold Service  account. 
I note that the adjudicator said that the consumers were paying more  in overdraft interest 
and account fees after the sale happened, than they were before. But I dont think a direct 
comparison of what they were paying  before and after is always helpful,  as the amount and 
duration they were  in their overdraft mayve  varied, so its not always  a like-for-like 
comparison. And I can see that they were also paying unplanned overdraft charges after the 
upgrade took place.  But this was because they had exceeded the arranged overdraft limit  
and had nothing  to do with the type of account  they held. 
However, I understand the Platinum account  did provide a lower rate of overdraft interest  
than the Gold  Service account. And their agreed limit was substantially  more than the £250 
interest free benefit that came with the account. So when I take into account the notes  that 
are available from the time alongside  the combination of the interest free overdraft benefit; 
lower overdraft interest rate; and all of the other  benefits that it provided,  I think its more 
likely that Mr and Mrs F agreed to the Platinum because of the benefits it provided rather  
than because they were  misled into thinking  they needed it to secure an increased overdraft. 
Mr and Mrs F accept  that they used  the benefits on the account,  but say that they used them 
as they were already having to pay for them to get the overdraft they wanted. But, having 
considered all of the evidence  and weighed everything up, Im not persuaded that what  they 
have said was more  likely  than not to have  happened.  
Again, as Lloyds  recommended the account to Mr and Mrs F, it had to make  sure it was right 
for them. And based on the benefits that they were able to use, I think that the 
recommendation was reasonable  in the circumstances. I also accept that Lloyds might  not 
have been given them all of the information it shouldve.  But again Ive seen nothing that 
makes me think they wouldve acted  any differently  had they been given more information  
about it.
Ref: DRN07973224So for the above reasons,  I dont  think that the Platinum  account was mis-sold either. I 
appreciate that this will come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs F, but I hope that I have 
been able to explain the reasons why I have reached this outcome.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0797322