K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out online in 2000. The policy  was taken  out at the
same time as Mr M applied for an Egg credit card. Barclays  has taken responsibility for the 
sale, and therefore  this compliant. The PPI gave Mr M accident,  sickness and 
unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed so the complaint was passed to
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  or 
contradictory, I have  based my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on 
what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr M says if it had been made clear PPI was optional, he would have  declined  it. Barclays 
no longer has an exact copy of the screenshots Mr M would have seen. But this isnt 
unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. But it has provided  sample  screenshots that 
it says are a fair representation of what Mr M would have  seen. So when Mr M applied  for 
the Egg credit card online  its most  likely he was presented with two options on the screen  
to select or decline PPI. 
The bank has supplied the record of his application data and this shows  he selected  PPI. 
Mr M says it must have  been a pre-filled checkbox,  or that the application wouldnt proceed 
without it being  filled. The bank disputes  this. From the evidence  I have seen  I cant  fairly 
agree with Mr Ms conclusion. The screenshots submitted  by the bank show neither the Yes 
nor No option to be pre-populated, and there is nothing on the screen indicating  PPI has to 
be selected to proceed.  And the option  to decline PPI is set out with equal prominence. 
Mr M also argues that his parents  would have helped him  and that as they had done so 
previously this was relevant to his decision-making at the time  so he wouldnt have  taken 
PPI unless he thought he had to. Ive considered this comment carefully but I also have to 
take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what Mr M recalls. 
Ive found no evidence that there was anything presented  to Mr M that could reasonably  
have led him to believe the PPI was mandatory.  
Overall, given the balance of the evidence, I think its most  likely Barclays made it clear to 
Mr M the PPI was optional and he agreed to take it out. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M, so it didnt  have to check if it was suitable for 
him. It was up to Mr M to decide whether the policy was right for him, bearing in mind  his 
ability to make his credit  card repayments  if he was sick or lost his job.
Ref: DRN03036332Its possible Barclays didnt give Mr M all the information about the PPI that he needed 
before he made his decision. But Mr M chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations.  
This policy was fairly priced in the market and offered  a competitive benefit level.  If Mr M 
was sick the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, in addition to his work benefits of 
between six and 12 months pay. It also offered  up to 12 months redundancy cover.  I know 
Mr M has told us his parents would  have helped but thats not suitable alternative protection  
 its not guaranteed and peoples  circumstances  can change.  
Overall, given his circumstances and the terms I think it unlikely Mr M wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Barclays also offered Mr M £50 compensation to apologise for the distress  and 
inconvenience it caused by failing to correctly log his letter as a complaint. I think this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. He should  either contact the bank directly if he now 
wishes to accept this offer.  Or, as our adjudicator  previously said,  he can do this on 
Mr Ms behalf.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0303633