K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains about issues  shes  experienced with a car supplied by Motability 
Operations Limited.
background
In February 2018  Ms T purchased a car which had previously been  supplied by Motability 
under a contract hire agreement commencing in July 2014.
In May 2018  Ms T contacted Motabilty to report excessive  oil consumption.  Motability 
arranged for repairs  to be carried out at no cost to Ms T. It also reimbursed her £178 towards 
her additional  oil costs.
In April 2019 Ms T contacted Motability  again and complained that the oil consumption issue 
had re-occurred.
Motability told Ms T that because the second issue had occurred outside  of the first 6 
months she would  need  to provide  further  evidence.
Motability arranged  for the car to be tested. It was returned to Ms T in May 2019 with the 
garage having found no excessive oil consumption and no oil leaks.
Ms T drove  the car to Cardiff a few weeks later and the oil light came on. She reported this 
to Motability who asked her to return the car to the garage. 
Ms T says the garage kept the car for 4 weeks and put 1000  miles on the clock during this 
time. When the car was returned  to her the garage told her there  were  no oil warning lights 
illuminated.
Ms T says she didnt use the car until July 2019, but when  she drove it, it felt different and 
displayed a drivetrain  message. 
Ms T complained to this service.  Shes unhappy that the garage put 1000 miles on the car and 
that there  are new messages displayed. She no longer wants the car and wants a full refund.
During the investigation by this service, Ms T obtained an independent report. The 
inspection found  that the drive train light was illuminated and that the car had an unusual 
vibration. It concluded that this might be associated  with the clutch needing replacement due 
to wear and tear. The inspection found  no issues relating  to oil consumption.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the independent report  suggested that 
the fault was due to wear and tear rather than a fault which was present at the point of supply.
Ms T didnt agree. She said she hadnt  been fully reimbursed for all of the oil shed purchased.  
She remained unhappy that the garage had put significant mileage on her car and she felt that 
the fault with the car as diagnosed by the main dealer hadnt been properly considered.
Ref: DRN04218292my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because the car was initially  supplied  under  a contract hire agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Cars  are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person  would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances 
such as (amongst other things) the age and mileage of the car and the price  paid. I would 
expect a brand new car to be of a very high standard but as a car gets older  I would expect 
to see a degree of wear  and tear. In order to uphold this complaint I would need to be 
satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply due to an inherent 
defect, as opposed to general  wear and tear.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault arises in the first 6 months  its 
presumed to be present  or developing at the point of supply. If there  is a fault the business is 
allowed one opportunity to repair it. If a repair isnt successful  the consumer can reject the 
car. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show  that 
the fault was present at the point of supply.
In considering whether the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply, Ive looked at 
the available  service history, repair history and MOT history. Although the car has been 
serviced and repaired  from time to time,  I havent  seen  anything  which  suggests  that there 
was an inherent fault with the car. Theres no evidence  that the car had an ongoing  oil 
consumption issue.
Ive looked at the independent report which was obtained by Ms T in August 2019. The engineer  
didnt find anything to suggest that there  was an issue with oil consumption.  He identified engine  
vibration which  he said could indicate the clutch needing replacement. He said this was a wear  
and tear issue which was to be expected  with a car of this age and mileage.
Ive also looked  at the report from the main dealership.  This recommends a replacement  
turbocharger and links the oil consumption to worn turbocharger  bearings.  It says it wouldnt 
be unusual to expect  to have to replace a turbocharger on a car which  has covered 90,000 
miles. Based on what the independent  engineer  and the main dealer have said,  and whilst I 
cant be certain of exactly what the fault is, Im satisfied that the two possible faults (clutch 
and turbocharger)  are both wear and tear issues as opposed to inherent  faults.
I understand that Ms T is disappointed that the garage put mileage on her car whilst it was 
investigating the cause of the oil warning light illuminating. But in order to test whether  a car 
is consuming excess oil, I think it would be necessary for the garage to drive the car on a 
reasonably long journey. And the garage might have had to do this more than once whilst 
trying to fix the problem.  I cant safely conclude  that the mileage put on the car wasnt 
necessary as part of trying to resolve the issue.
Based on what Ive seen,  and whilst  I agree that the car needs repairs, Im not persuaded 
that the faults were present or developing  at the point of supply. Because  of this, Im unable 
to say that the car is of unsatisfactory quality and I wont  be asking Motability to meet the 
costs of repairs or to refund Ms T any further  sums  of money.
Ref: DRN04218293my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0421829