K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background
Mrs S bought the policy in 1998,  several months  after she took out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
I think Barclays made Mrs S aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and she chose to 
take it. Although  I can understand why she may not remember this given how long ago 
everything took place  and that taking out insurance  isnt a particularly memorable 
experience. 
Barclays has told us that Mrs S took out the credit card after an in branch discussion in 
May 1998. I have seen  a copy of the credit agreement and see that Mrs S chose not to take 
the PPI at that time.  The PPI was added three months later over the phone.  Barclays cant 
confirm if it was an incoming or outgoing call. It also cant  provide  a call recording or a copy 
of the script the adviser would have used at the time. But I dont find this surprising because 
of how long ago the sale took place and businesses arent obliged to keep records 
indefinitely. 
Because of this I cant be sure what was said to Mrs S at the time of the sale.  But I do know 
that the credit card itself had been  active for three months before the PPI was added. So I 
think its most likely  Mrs S knew she didn't  have  to have the PPI in order  to get the credit 
card, and that she had a choice about taking the PPI.
Barclays has told us it recommended the PPI to Mrs S, which  means they had to check  it 
was right for her. And based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time,  it looks like 
it was. For example, Mrs S wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.
Mrs S was employed at the time of the sale and has told us she would have received six 
months full pay followed  by six months  half pay from her employer if she wasnt  able to work. 
But in the event of a successful claim the policy would have paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance each month and for up to 12 months. It would have also paid out over and above  
any employee benefits Mrs S would  have received so they could have been used for other 
essential outgoings. 
Ref: DRN06035552Mrs S has told us she had £300 savings she could  have used to make  the card repayments 
if needed. But the policy would have ensured  the savings had remained intact and used for 
their original purpose or other  emergency.  
Its possible that the information Barclays gave  Mrs S about PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think that better  information would have put Mrs S off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ss comments,  including what  she has said about her employee 
benefits and not being given a choice. But because of what  Ive said, these points dont 
change my mind.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0603555