K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Ms P says Marks & Spencer Financial Services  Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
I think Marks & Spencer made it clear that Ms P didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. I say this 
because Marks & Spencer has given us a copy of the credit card application Ms P 
completed. There is a section to select and sign separately for PPI and PPI has been 
selected  Ms P has also signed the application  so I think  this reflected what  she wanted. 
Ms P has said that she was lead to believe she would have a better  chance  of getting the 
credit if she took the PPI. But I cant see it mentions  anywhere in the application  that taking 
the PPI would give her a better chance of obtaining  the credit. 
Marks & Spencer didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms P so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Ms P got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Marks & Spencer  gave Ms P about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  I cant see that the application form itself tells Ms P what the main terms or 
exclusions are. It refers to For details  see clause 7 of the terms and conditions but there 
was no requirement  for her to read this before selecting the PPI. So I think there  were  likely 
to have been failings in the information given  to Ms P.
So I need to consider if Ms P wouldve  acted  differently and not bought  the policy,  if better  
information had been provided.  And I dont  think she wouldve. I say this because:
Ms P was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look as though she wouldve been 
affected by any of the terms which mightve  made it difficult for her to claim, for 
example a pre-existing medical condition or unusual employment  circumstances.
Ms P has told us she would have  got between six to twelve months  sick pay but she 
had no other means if she was off work unwell to meet the repayments. Ive thought 
carefully about this but the policy wouldve paid 15% reducing balance  of any 
outstanding credit  card balance  each month  for up to 12 months. It would pay out on 
top of her sick pay. So I still think the policy couldve been useful to her if she became 
unwell or lost her job.
Ms P has said she wasnt made  aware  of the cost of the policy when  she applied for 
it. I dont think the cost was made clear enough  but I also dont think  Ms P wouldve 
acted differently if Marks & Spencer  had given  her clearer information about  it. I say 
Ref: DRN00549862this because the monthly premiums and policy benefit are in line with similar policies 
from the time. It looks like Ms P wanted the cover the policy  gave her. As its cost 
depended on how much  she spent, if she didnt use the card a lot, it wouldnt cost her 
very much. And as she was paying for the PPI monthly, she could cancel it without 
further cost if her situation changed  or she no longer  wanted it.
 
So overall, although the information provided  couldve  been  clearer, based on what I know 
about Ms Ps circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful to her and I dont 
think that more, or better, information wouldve made her act differently  and not buy the 
policy. So I dont think Ms P lost out as a result  of anything Marks & Spencer mightve done 
wrong.
Which means Marks & Spencer doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms P.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Marks & Spencer said that the level of commission and profit  share it received did create  an 
unfair relationship. So to put things right it paid back the extra Ms P paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
premium. It also included  8% per year simple interest to compensate  Ms P for any time she 
was out of pocket.  
Ms P says there have been other  court cases in relation  to non-disclosure of commission 
where consumers have received everything back.  So she thinks Marks & Spencer  should 
refund all of the money paid for the PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Ms Ps complaint is the law. But I also need  to take into account 
relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Marks & Spencer  has made  Ms P an offer of compensation in relation to the 
level of commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Ms P 
wants Marks & Spencer to do something different. 
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Ms P and her complaint to see if theres  
anything about  her that would mean  the business  should do something different  if the 
remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Ms P. But 
there isnt anything about Ms Ps complaint  or circumstances that suggest the redress paid 
by Marks & Spencer isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Marks & Spencers offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
Ref: DRN00549863my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms P.
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plcs offer of compensation to Ms P, for the level of 
commission and profit share it received  on Ms Ps PPI policy  is fair. It doesnt  need to do 
anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0054986