K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains Barclays Bank UK Plc will not refund a disputed transaction.
She is helped in this complaint by her husband   Mr C  but for ease, I will refer to all 
submissions as if made directly by Mrs C.
background
On 6th November 2017 a counter withdrawal  of £1400 was made  from Mrs Cs account at a 
branch of Barclays close to her home  and one which she had used  before.  Approximately 
15 minutes before that withdrawal, there had been  a balance  enquiry.  Barclays say the 
balance enquiry was carried out using the genuine  card and PIN.  The withdrawal had been  
made using  the same  authority  received  from the balance enquiry and was then signed for  
Barclays says giving  a match  to the signature it held on record.
The withdrawal left Mrs Cs account  overdrawn by almost £300.
On 9th November, expecting a credit  to the account  from her son, Mr and Mrs C visited  a 
Barclays branch to get a printout of her statement. It was when they saw the withdrawal on 
this statement that they complained to Barclays straight away.
Mrs C says she went back into the branch and asked  that the CCTV be checked because 
they had not been  in branch on 6th November and had not made this withdrawal.  She  said 
they were told by staff that only the police  would be able to check  the CCTV.  Mrs C says 
she insisted on this being viewed on a number  of occasions and was met with the same  
response.
Barclays ultimately rejected her complaint.  It said it was satisfied  her card had been in 
branch on 6th November  because the chip on the card had been  read during the balance  
enquiry.  And it was also satisfied the card had been used by someone who knew Mrs Cs 
PIN.  Without a plausible explanation as to how this could have happened,  it was going to 
hold Mrs C liable for the transaction.
So, Mrs C brought her complaint to this service  where our adjudicator looked into matters for 
her.  We asked Barclays for the CCTV footage from branch on 6th November  but due to 
the time that had elapsed, it was no longer available.
Our adjudicator considered the evidence and did not think she could ask Barclays to do 
anymore.  Barclays agreed  with this but Mrs C didnt.   She  asked for an ombudsmans  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so, I have  arrived at a 
different outcome than the adjudicator.  I have  explained to Barclays that I intend to uphold  
this complaint in full and have asked for its submissions in response.   It has responded and 
explained it needs an explanation as to how Mrs Cs card and PIN were used without her 
knowledge.  Until then,  it will not be changing  its stance.
Ref: DRN06990662Generally speaking, if the evidence shows its more likely than not that Mrs C authorised  this 
transaction, Barclays is entitled to hold her liable.   The relevant rules  say so.  But Barclays 
need to satisfy a two stage test before I can make a finding on authorisation.  It needs to 
show the transaction was authenticated and Mrs C consented to it being  made.
The evidence shows Mrs Cs card was read and her PIN was entered  correctly when the 
balance enquiry was carried out.  So, I am satisfied  that her genuine card was being  used.   
However, the withdrawal  was made  some  15 minutes later  Barclays  say under the same  
authority and by providing a signature.
That would mean the person carrying out the balance enquiry would have been  stood  at the 
cashiers desk for this amount of time or they left and returned and were not required to re-
enter the card and PIN because the cashier  had seen them do it minutes  earlier.
I dont know what happened during  those  15 minutes  but there was certainly  no other  
activity on the account.
In the circumstances, I cant be satisfied, on balance, that this withdrawal was authenticated.
However, even if I did find it had been authenticated, I dont think  Barclays has been able to 
satisfy the second  limb of the test  that Mrs C consented.
The similar signature on the withdrawal  slip carried little weight in assisting me in making a 
finding.  The  fraudster  who was able to gain access  to Mrs Cs card most likely was able to 
copy her signature from the back of it too.
Of course,  conclusive  evidence in this case may well have come from the CCTV footage  
from the day in question.   Mrs C told us they insisted on viewing it but were told by branch 
staff that only the police were able to do so.  Had the branch manager seized the relevant 
footage and arranged for it to be viewed by someone, this complaint may well have been  
resolved some time ago.  As it is, that never happened and we will never know  what  the 
footage showed.
Im also assisted by the fact that this was an unusual withdrawal as far as Mrs Cs normal  
transactions are concerned.  On  the statements available to me, I cannot  see that she had 
previously made such a large cash withdrawal.  Neither can I see that she has ever allowed 
the account to go overdrawn.  On 6th November  2017 both of these things  happened.
Mrs C says she never made this withdrawal.   Barclays says it has provided sufficient 
evidence that she authorised it.  Im afraid  I do not agree with Barclays   and being provided  
with a reasonable explanation as to how her card and PIN were  present in the branch 
without her is not the test that needs to be satisfied here.
For all the reasons I have  given above, I intend to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK Plc should refund Mrs C £1400 plus interest  at 
the rate of 8% from the date of withdrawal to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Ref: DRN06990663Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0699066