K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about charges at the end of a contract purchase agreement with Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS). 
background
In March 2016 Mr L was supplied  with a car and entered into a 24 month contract purchase 
agreement with MBFS.
At the end of the agreement and following collection  of the car MBFS charged Mr L for 
excess mileage and a missing key.
Mr L complained to MBFS. He said he had told the supplying dealer that he needed an 
annual mileage allowance of 15,000. He also said that when he returned  the car to the 
dealership he was told that he could  drop the spare  key in at a later date.
In response MBFS said that Mr L had signed an agreement with an annual mileage limit of 
10,000. It also said that the spare  key was required to be present  with the car on collection.
Mr L wasnt happy with MBFSs response  so he complained to this service. He feels  that the 
agreement was misrepresented  to him because he had agreed an annual  mileage limit of 
15,000 and because he was told the key could be returned later. Mr L wants  the charges 
waived.
Our investigator initially partially  upheld the complaint and said that based on Mr Ls 
testimony it was more likely than not that he agreed  to an annual mileage limit of 15,000 at 
the point of sale. In relation to the charges for the spare key the investigator said that Mr L 
was responsible for these because the key should have been present when the car was 
collected. 
MBFS didnt agree. It provided information  about  the distance  between Mr Ls home and his 
place of work which called into question whether an annual allowance  of 15,000  miles would 
have been sufficient. It also said that the information on the service schedule  (which was the 
document relied upon by Mr L as evidence of the fact that he had agreed 15,000 miles) 
related to the service interval and not to the mileage limit.
The investigator asked  Mr L to provide further information about his commute  and usage of 
the car. Mr L told the investigator that he worked  from home and used the car 3 or 4 times 
each week to visit his children which was a 44 mile round trip.
Based on the further information  obtained the investigator changed her view and concluded 
that MBFS had treated  Mr L fairly  and that the charges should  stand.
Mr L didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN06062842Im aware that Mr L has asked to discuss his complaint with me before I issue my final 
decision. However, Im satisfied that I already have sufficient information  to make a final 
decision so I wont be contacting Mr L or the business.
Excess Mileage
Ive considered what Mr L has said about the discussions  he had with the dealership at the 
time of entering into the agreement. Mr L has said that he calculated his annual mileage with 
the business manager based on his estimated usage of the car for 3 or 4 trips each week to 
visit his children. Mr L has said that based  on this he agreed with the business manager  that 
he required  15,000  miles per year.
Theres no contemporaneous  evidence of what was discussed when Mr L visited the 
dealership. The dealership doesnt have any notes in response to specific enquiries about 
this complaint and the business  manager  who dealt with Mr L no longer works at the 
dealership. I wasnt present when Mr L visited the dealership so I cant  be certain of what 
was said.
In circumstances  like this the best evidence of what was agreed is the documents  which 
came into existence at the time.  So Ive looked  at these to determine what  was more  likely 
than not to have  been  agreed.
Ive looked at the agreement which was signed  by Mr L on 1 March 2016. Under the heading  
default charges the agreement says that a charge of 9 pence  plus VAT will be charged for 
mileage which exceeds 10,000 miles per year. I would have expected Mr L to have read the 
agreement before signing it. Ive also taken into account the fact that because Mr L says he 
spent quite a long time discussing  his requirements with the business manager,  I would  have 
expected Mr L to check that important things such as mileage were correctly recorded  in the 
agreement.
Ive also looked  at the service care plan. Mr L has said that this is the document  which led 
him to believe that he had agreed an annual mileage limit of 15,000. The document  is clearly 
marked as a service care plan and because of this I think  its reasonable for a consumer to 
understand that the mileage specified  in the document relates to the service interval rather 
than to an annual  mileage limit. Because of this, Im not persuaded that Mr L can reasonably  
relay on this document to show that he was led to believe that his mileage limit was 15,000, 
particularly when the contract purchase  agreement itself clearly  refers to a mileage limit of 
10,000.
Ive also taken into account what Mr L has said about his usage of the car. Hes said that he 
worked from home and used the car to visit his children 3 or 4 times a week  which  was a 
round trip of 44 miles.  This equates to between 6864 and 9152 miles each year. If this was 
the information provided by Mr L to the dealership  (and on Mr Ls evidence, it was), then I 
dont think it was unrealistic for a mileage limit of 10,000 per year to be included  in the 
agreement, as this was sufficient  for  Mr Ls needs.
I can see that Mr L was asked by this service to provide the insurance documents for the car 
to show that he had insured the car for more than 10,000 miles per year. This information 
would have been important because if Mr L had insured the car for 15,000 miles per year, it 
would have supported his testimony that this was the mileage that he had agreed at the 
point of supply.  However,  Mr L was unable to provide the insurance details for the car and 
although he provided insurance details  for his current car, these details arent  relevant.
Ref: DRN06062843Taking all of the available information  into account  Im unable  to safely  conclude that MBFS 
mis -sold  the agreement. Im satisfied  that MBFS has acted in accordance  with the terms 
and conditions of the agreement in imposing charges for excess mileage.
Spare key
Mr L has explained that he didnt have the spare  key with him when he returned the car to 
the dealership  because  he had left it at his mothers  house and she was away on holiday. Mr 
L has also said that he was told by the dealership  that this didnt matter and that he could 
drop the spare key in another time. It appears  that the dealership contacted  Mr L before the 
car was collected and asked him to drop the key off. But Mr L wasnt  able to do this before 
the car was collected and says he was told by the dealership that he could post the key 
instead.
I can see from the returns standards documents which were sent to Mr L that it was made 
clear that the spare key was required  to be with the car when it was collected. So Im 
satisfied that Mr L would have been  aware  of this.
I think its more  likely than not that the dealership told Mr L that he could return  the key at a 
later date. This was incorrect  information.  But I have to consider what  would have happened 
if the dealership  had given Mr L the correct  information. In those circumstances, Mr L still 
wouldnt have been able to return the key because he didnt have access  to it. Because  of 
this Im satisfied that Mr L would have incurred the charge for the spare key in any event. So 
I wont be asking MBFS to waive the charge for the replacement key.
For the reasons  Ive given I wont be asking MBFS to waive the charges for excess mileage 
or the replacement key.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0606284