K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc blocked  his account and hasnt explained why. 
Mr F says this caused a great deal of inconvenience. And he wants  HSBC to pay him 
compensation. 
background
Mr F has a business account with HSBC.
In February 2018,  as part of its know our customer review process, HSBC asked Mr F for 
information to ensure  it understood  enough  about  his account and his use of it. Whilst it 
conducted the review  HSBC blocked  Mr Fs account.
The block  stopped Mr F from being  able to access money in the account. On 21 February 
2018, HSBC wrote to Mr F to let him know it had blocked his account to comply  with its legal 
and regulatory  obligations. 
Mr F says that HSBC hasnt properly  explained  the reasons why it blocked his account.  Hes 
told us that this caused him a great deal of inconvenience. And the blocks  on his account 
made it difficult for him to pay bills and hes faced financial penalties from stakeholders. He 
wants to close his account and withdraw  the remaining  funds. 
Mr F complained to HSBC. It said its not obliged to enter  into any discussion with Mr F to 
explain its decision to block his account.  It says it acted in accordance with its UK statutory 
obligations and wont be releasing any funds to him. Unhappy with this response Mr F 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator said she was satisfied  HSBC had had followed its legal and regulatory 
obligations. So she didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed. Hes still upset that HSBC 
blocked his account without explanation. He says this caused him a great deal of upset and 
inconvenience. He wants HSBC to provide a full explanation and pay him compensation for 
the trouble HSBC caused by blocking his account.  So the complaint has come  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review  of Mr Fs account.  Anti-money laundering 
regulations and UK legislation place extensive  obligations on regulated  financial businesses  
to have suitable systems  in place for customer identification. Financial institutions  must 
establish the purpose and intended nature of a business as well as the origin  of funds, and 
there may be penalties  if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. 
HSBC have said that Mr Fs account was reviewed as part of their know  your customer 
work to meet  these legal requirements.
I appreciate Mr F feels strongly about  his complaint. But HSBC  was entitled  to review his 
account under the account  terms and conditions. Having  looked at the evidence, Im also 
satisfied that HSBC acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked and 
reviewed Mr Fs account. I accept that that this caused  Mr F difficulty. And I can understand 
Ref: DRN08661982that hes frustrated  that he hasnt been  given a proper explanation. But HSBC  doesnt have 
to provide this information. So I cant say HSBC did anything wrong by not giving him this 
information.
Whilst I appreciate HSBC havent explained why it placed the block  on Mr Fs account, I can 
see that it wrote to him on 21 February and on 20 September 2018 to let him know  his 
account was frozen.  So I think  HSBC did keep  Mr F informed of what was happening. 
Having looked  at whats happened  in this particular case, I can see no basis on which 
I might  make  an award  against HSBC given that I dont think it failed  to properly follow  its 
own procedures when  it blocked and reviewed Mr Fs account.  So Im not going to ask 
HSBC to compensate  him for any inconvenience  this may have caused him.
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Mr H feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt 
its been a difficult  and frustrating time. I know my decision  will come  as a great frustration 
and disappointment to him. But overall, based on the evidence  Ive seen, I cant  fairly  say 
HSBC have acted  unreasonably or treated Mr F unfairly. So I wont be asking them to do 
anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0866198