K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Guarantee Protection Insurance Limited (GPI) unfairly  declined  
a claim they made under their insurance  backed  guarantee.
background
In 2012 Mr and Mrs A had a bay window fitted  by Company A. The contract  they entered into
included a ten-year  company guarantee  provided by the fitter.
This is also included  a separate ten-year insurance backed guarantee provided  by GPI - to
be used in the event Company A ceased trading.
Around October 2018 Mr and Mrs A noticed gaps  around the edge of their bay window.
Company A was no longer  trading,  so they contacted GPI to make a claim under its
insurance backed guarantee. It reviewed the window and said Company As installation had
been the reason for the damage  saying it had over-tightened fixing screws leading  to the
outer frame  to bow.
GPI said its terms  excluded cover for issues arising where either  no component  part of the 
window had failed,  or where any issues arose  from a fault in manufacture  or due to a latent 
defect. And in this case, it said the damage  in question was caught by these exclusions, so it 
declined the claim.
One of our investigators  looked into what happened  and upheld  the complaint. She wasnt  
persuaded GPI had applied its exclusions fairly and asked it to reconsider the claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms.
Mr and Mrs A agreed, but GPI didnt. It reiterated that the damage hadnt  been caused by
the failing  of any component parts of the installation,  and instead was due to faulty
workmanship which wasnt covered. Because an agreement  couldnt be reached,  the
complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 June 2020  explaining  why I didnt intend to uphold  the 
complaint. Ive included my findings below:
To avoid confusion, I want to be clear  I have considered the claim Mr and Mrs A 
have made  against  their insurance backed  guarantee  - not their guarantee  with 
Company A (who has ceased  trading). I stress  this as the terms and conditions of 
these two guarantees differ.
Ive been provided  with a copy of Mr and Mrs As GPIs guarantee terms. These say 
GPI will provide a repair or replacement of the insured item (the window) installed by 
a member (Company A) which has failed to operate in accordance  with the 
manufacturer's specifications where,  at the date of the claim, the member is no 
longer trading.
Company A is no longer  trading. So the question I have  to consider is whether the 
window or any part of it has failed to operate  in accordance with the manufacturers 
specifications.
Ref: DRN04818482To answer  this question  Ive carefully considered  the service engineers report  that 
was completed as part of the review. Our investigator has previously shared these 
comments in full so I will not repeat them,  but in summary the report says the outer 
frame bowed due to the fitter overtightening the fixing screws - with no mention of 
failing materials or parts.
Ive been given nothing to suggest  this isnt an accurate account of whats  happened, 
and it seems Mr and Mrs A are in agreement the installation itself was the cause of 
the gaps.
From what  Ive seen, it doesnt appear the faulty  installation meets the requirement of 
the window failing to operate in accordance  with manufacturer's specifications . So 
Im not persuaded theres cover for this specific event  under  this guarantee. But, Ive 
gone on to consider the exclusions GPI has relied  on. This says the guarantee wont 
cover:
Leakage,  adjustments, malfunction, where no component part of the installation has 
failed.
It seems  fair to me to consider the damage  described as either a malfunction or 
adjustment. And having looked  at the report and evidence  provided, it doesnt seem 
any of the component parts (such  as screws,  bolts,  handles) have  failed.
I concluded that GPI had applied the exclusion  fairly and in line with its terms. And I was 
satisfied it was reasonable for GPI to decline this claim. Both parties have now had the 
opportunity to respond to my decision.
GPI didnt  provide  anything further,  but Mr and Mrs A did, saying:
Company A was acting as an agent  for GPI and they had been told they had a ten-
year guarantee that was insurance  backed should any issue develop;
they were only given copies of the terms and conditions after the installation was 
completed so were unable to dispute any terms; and 
overall they do not believe GPI has acted fairly.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still not upholding this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs A have  reiterated what they were told when they bought their windows, and the 
assurances they were  given by the sales person at the time. But within  this complaint, Im 
considering GPIs actions  considering this claim,  not Company As sale of the insurance.  
This also applies to the documentation they were or werent given at the time the windows 
were sold.  So this doesnt change my mind.
I am sympathetic to Mr and Mrs As situation, but for the above reasons Im not upholding 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN04818483my final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2020.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0481848