K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the time it took AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) to deal with a 
claim they made for accidental damage, under their home insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B have  explained that in September 2018 they noticed a crack in the shower tray 
in their en-suite  bathroom. So, they contacted AXA to make a claim under their home 
insurance policy. AXA accepted the claim.  And it has provided a cash settlement for the loss 
 which  Mr and Mrs B have agreed  to. 
Mr and Mrs B have  said they are satisfied  with the cash settlement amount eventually  
provided to them. But, theyre concerned with the time it took AXA to provide this settlement 
figure to them.  They  feel the claim could have  been  progressed more efficiently. 
In particular, Mr and Mrs B have said that they made another claim for damage to their 
en-suite previously, and AXA appointed  a surveyor to attend their home  and compile a 
scope of works. They said this meant it was clear to AXA what work needed to be done to 
put the problem right. But, when it came  to this claim a surveyor wasnt appointed. Instead, a 
scope of works was compiled through a desktop validation  meaning the scale  of work  
needed in this claim wasnt clear to AXA.  And this meant Mr and Mrs B needed to get quotes 
and submit these, to ensure the settlement provided  to them  was correct.
AXA agreed there were  some delays in the progress of Mr and Mrs Bs claim. It said it had 
initially attempted to repair the shower  tray at Mr and Mrs Bs home, but this was 
unsuccessful and caused delays. But, it was satisfied it had progressed  the rest of 
Mr and Mrs Bs claim efficiently. It offered Mr and Mrs B an amount of £200  compensation 
for the initial delays  in their claim  this being the £100 excess  waived,  and a compensation 
payment of £100.  Mr and Mrs B didnt agree, so they referred their complaint to this service 
for an independent review.
Our investigator looked into this complaint and agreed there  had been  delays in the initial  
stages of Mr and Mrs Bs claim,  and he felt the desktop  validation team  could have been  
appointed more efficiently. But, he thought AXA acted  reasonably  in appointing  the desktop  
validation team, and in moving the claim forward to settlement from there.  So, he considered 
the £200 offered to Mr and Mrs B for the initial delays to be fair.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree. They reiterated their feelings that if a surveyor  had been 
appointed the claim  would have  progressed at a quicker pace.  Instead,  they had to take 
action and seek quotes to get the matter  resolved.  
Because Mr and Mrs B didnt agree this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive explained why below.
Mr and Mrs B have  raised concerns with the handling of their claim  and the time AXA took 
to deal with the loss. ICOBS 8.1.1 does set out what is expected of an insurer when handling 
Ref: DRN07344322claims. This explains a claim should be handled  promptly and fairly. So, Ive considered  
whether Mr and Mrs Bs claim was dealt with promptly and fairly,  in line with these rules.
Mr and Mrs B have  compared this claim to another claim  they previously made. Theyve said 
that claim took four weeks to resolve,  and this one took 24 weeks. So, they feel a delay of 20 
weeks occurred. I should highlight that different claims will require different action to be 
taken. And whats necessary will depend on the particular circumstances of that claim. So, I 
dont think a direct comparison can be made  between the two losses. Instead, I need to look 
at this particular  claim,  and decide whether it was dealt with in a fair and reasonable way.
Both parties  are aware of the history of the claim, so I dont intend  on detailing  it all here.  But 
Ive carefully considered  whats happened. And Im satisfied AXA could have  moved the 
claim forward more  efficiently  in its initial stages. 
I can see a repair to the shower  tray was attempted  by a specialist appointed  by AXA,  but 
this repair  failed. A repair attempt was completed a second time, and this was also 
unsuccessful. AXA has acknowledged that this caused a delay. And I agree this caused a 
delay to the progression and conclusion  of the claim.  I do think  this caused  some upset and 
inconvenience to Mr and Mrs B. So, I think compensation should be provided to them for 
this. 
But Mr and Mrs B have  said the avoidable delays  to their claim were  more extensive than 
this. And they specifically  referred to the appointment of the desktop validation service  
following the failed  repair attempts. They feel this caused a problem with the scope of works  
being correct.  Ive thought  carefully  about  this. But, I dont think  AXA acted incorrectly  in 
deciding to validate the costs for Mr and Mrs Bs claim  in this way, or that this caused any 
unnecessary delays. Whilst I understand Mr and Mrs B would have preferred a surveyor to 
attend their property, it isnt unusual  for desktop  validations to be used to assess  the costs  of 
a claim.
From looking  at the claims notes provided to me, Im aware that during the desktop 
validation AXA offered an amount of £350 as settlement for the claim during the validation  
call. It based this figure on the shower  enclosure and the bottom  row of tiles needing to be 
removed to complete  the work.  But Mr and Mrs B explained at the time they werent sure if a 
like for like replacement of the tray would be possible   and this would mean a new shower  
enclosure would be needed. So, AXA did take this into account and understood the scale  of 
the work  could be higher than its initial thoughts. And it was agreed Mr and Mrs B would get 
a quotation for the work instead. Mr and Mrs B did this  and an increased  settlement was 
agreed. So, whilst I understand the initial figure AXA offered wasnt right  the desktop 
validation team did explain at the time it was happy  to consider additional costs if they were 
needed, as I would have expected. Once  Mr and Mrs B proved they were  needed, AXA 
agreed to the additional  costs. 
Mr and Mrs B said they would replace the tiles in the bathroom with aqua  panels instead. 
And so they got a quote for this work  to be completed. Once AXA received  this in 
December 2018  it promptly  agreed to settle this cost, and sent Mr and Mrs B the settlement 
figure. Towards the end of January  2019  Mr and Mrs B advised the use of aqua panels their 
contractor had quoted for was no longer a viable option. And in February 2019 they provided 
a quotation for tiling the bathroom instead. Again, Im aware AXA agreed to increase the 
Ref: DRN07344323settlement figure as a result of this  and provided the settlement to Mr and Mrs B within  the 
week. So, Im satisfied  AXA acted  promptly in dealing  with the claim as it evolved.
AXA has offered  Mr and Mrs B an amount of £200  compensation  for the avoidable  delays in 
the progression  of the claim. Ive thought about  whether this amount is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. And I think it is. I say this because I think it fairly  reflects  the trouble and 
upset Mr and Mrs B experienced as a result  of the avoidable delay in the initial repair  work 
carried out. So, I think AXA should pay this amount to Mr and Mrs B. But, I dont require it to 
do anything more.
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything more. It if hasnt already done so, AXA Insurance  UK 
Plc should pay Mr and Mrs B the £200  it has already offered  by waiving the £100  excess,  
and providing  Mr and Mrs B with a payment  of £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0734432