K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) is unable to locate a dormant 
bank account  from a building society that Nationwide acquired. He is also not happy  with 
how Nationwide handled a phone call he made.   He would like Nationwide to compensate 
him with the amount he believes is still in his account.
background
Mr G says he opened a building society account in 1997. To prove  this he sent in a 
photocopy of his passbook. And a letter  dated 22 July 2000 confirming his balance.
He says Nationwide acquired this building  society in 2014.  He  says he contacted  
Nationwide asking it to find his account but it wasnt able to do so.
He says he cant have  closed the account  as he still has the passbook which needs to be 
submitted for closure. He has explained  he had a number of dormant building  society 
accounts. All apart from the one with Nationwide have been  located and reactivated.
He says as there was as a significant sum of money  in the account - £3,410.32 he wouldnt 
have closed it. If he had taken the money  out he would  have left a small balance  in to keep 
the account open.
Nationwide said it hadnt been able to find a record of Mr Gs account. It said this suggested 
the funds had been taken  out of the account  before  the merger took place. And for data 
protection reasons it had no record of the transactions that took place before the merger.
Nationwide did credit Mr Gs account with £50 as it had given Mr G the wrong telephone 
number to call. As a result Mr G went through to a non-customer facing department who 
werent able to help him. It said it had spoken  to the member of staff in question  and assured  
Mr G it was not that individuals intention to cause Mr G any further  upset.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found Nationwide had no record of Mr Gs 
account transferring  over.  Or of his account  existing now.  And there  were  circumstances 
where accounts could  be closed without  a pass book being submitted, for example  if a 
consumer reported  a passbook as lost.
Mr G didnt accept this view. He felt Nationwide should evidence his passbook  had been lost 
if that was what it was suggesting. And it should  evidence his account was closed. If it cant  
he felt it should  reimburse  him for the balance in the account.
He said he hadnt  had any problems reactivating other accounts which had a similar 
longevity to the one in dispute. And asked why he would close an account  which  he believed 
one day might be de mutualised. 
He noted he changed address in 2004  and asked why Nationwide couldnt  search  for his 
account under his name or present address.  He insisted his account  did exist
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view.  She reiterated that 
Nationwide confirmed that no account was transferred from the building  society in question. 
She said she couldnt ask Nationwide to prove  a negative   that is that an account didnt 
exist. 
Ref: DRN01463842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G feels strongly  about this and I do understand that as there is a reasonable sum of 
money that Mr G cant trace. So I appreciate Mr G is going to be disappointed as Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator.
Ive looked at the evidence Mr G has given  us  that is a copy of his passbook  and a letter  
from his old building  society confirming  his balance in 2000. I appreciate the letter confirming 
his balance says that if he wants to close his account he would have to send the passbook 
in. But I dont feel the fact Mr G still has his passbook is proof the account is still open. 
Nationwide has explained that in some  situations,  for example when passbooks are reported  
missing, accounts can be closed without them. Mr G has asked for evidence  this happened. 
But Nationwide has explained  it doesnt  have access to information  prior to the merger. 
In terms of the letter confirming the balance on the account Ive noted that it is over 18 years 
old. And Mr G hasnt  been able to provide  any more  recent correspondence. So I dont think 
a letter  from such a long time ago is, in itself, proof Mr Gs account is still open.
We have gone  back to Nationwide and asked  it to provide evidence of the searches it made 
to try to find Mr Gs account. Nationwide has given  us screen shots of multiple searches that 
it did on its systems  to try to find Mr Gs account. For example it did searches using the 
account number,  name,  date of birth and address. It also searched under savings and 
customer contact and checked archived and dormant accounts.  
Nationwide also gave  us a migration letter it sent to Mr G on 4 April 2014. This was in 
relation to another account with the same  building society  in question that was due to 
transfer to Nationwide. I have checked  this and the account number in the letter  isnt the 
same as the account  in dispute.
From this I feel that Nationwide has done  its best to locate  the account  but hasnt been able 
to do so.  I am inclined therefore  to agree with Nationwides view that its likely the account 
was closed before the merger of the two buildings societies. Had that not been the case  I 
think Mr G would have had a migration letter about the account in dispute.  And the account 
would have shown  up on Nationwides systems  but didnt.
I appreciate Mr G has given us a list of a large number of other building  societies he has 
funds in. He hasnt given us any evidence  of those actual funds but I have no reason to 
disbelieve what he has told us. He has also made  the point he wouldnt close an account as 
he believed  he might benefit from societies de mutualising. Unfortunately  I dont feel Mr G 
has given conclusive evidence his account  is still open. And just because he tells us that he 
has been able to locate all of his other accounts that doesnt  prove  that the account in 
question is still open And as Nationwide cant find a record of the account I cant  reasonably 
ask it to compensate  him for the funds Mr G believes is in the account.
Mr G also complained about a particular call he had with a Nationwide  member of staff. 
Unfortunately that call wasnt recorded  so I cant listen  to it. Nationwide has explained that 
Mr G wasnt given the right telephone  number to call. As a result  he contacted a non-
customer facing department which would probably  explain  why the person he spoke to 
Ref: DRN01463843wasnt able to help him. Nationwide  credited Mr Gs account with £50 compensation  which I 
think was reasonable under the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0146384