K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mr W are unhappy with the service they received from Inter Partner  Assistance SA 
when they made a claim on their travel insurance policy. 
background
Mr H and Mr W were on holiday when Mr H became  very unwell and was admitted to 
hospital. They missed  their flights back to the UK and incurred further  expenses  as they had 
to pay for a hotel and new flights.  
Mr H and Mr W are unhappy with the service they received abroad and delays in handling  
the claim on their return. They also said they felt IPA had discriminated against  them  as 
correspondence referred to them as being  friends,  when they are in fact partners. 
IPA has since settled  the claim but acknowledges that the standard of service fell below the 
standard theyd  accepted. They offered £100 compensation as an apology. 
Mr H and Mr W complained to our service. An investigator looked into what happened  and 
didnt uphold  the complaint. She thought £100  was a fair offer for what  went  wrong. Mr H 
and Mr W didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review  the complaint. They said that 
there were multiple issues including  breaches of data protection, discrimination, poor 
complaint handling and delays. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im really  sorry  to hear that Mr H was taken ill on holiday. From  the information Ive been 
provided with I can see that this must  have been a frightening and upsetting experience.  
Experiencing a medical emergency abroad  is distressing  and inconvenient.  I need to decide 
whether the way in which the claim was handled added to this. 
Mr H and Mr W have  made a number of points as part of their complaint.  But Ive focused  on 
those that I think are central to my decision.  
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I think the offer of £100 is fair and I wont be increasing it because:  
Ref: DRN09132282I appreciate Mr H and Mr W feel it wasnt appropriate to ask for the medical history 
given the nature  of Mr Hs illness. But its standard industry practice for insurers to 
ask for medical records in order to verify cover.  This is to ensure that a policyholder 
has accurately declared their medical history. So it wasnt unreasonable for IPA to 
ask for this information 
Mr W and Mr H say that they feel theyve been  discriminated against  because of their 
sexuality. Its not my role to determine  whether Mr W and Mr H have been 
discriminated against under the Equality Act 2010  as thats a matter for the courts.  
But I have taken  into account whether IPA treated them fairly and reasonably, and 
when doing so, Ive taken into account  the law as Im required to do. So Ive 
considered what  I think a court is likely to find if Mr H and Mr W made a claim under 
the Equality Act 2010. As Ive outlined  above  its standard industry practice  to ask for 
medical information in support  of a claim so I think it is unlikely that a court would  
conclude Mr H and Mr W were treated differently because  of their sexuality 
I can understand why it was upsetting  for Mr H and Mr W to be referred  to as friends 
when they were partners. I think this was most  likely  to be a genuine  
misunderstanding and down to human error. And, based  on everything Ive seen, I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that they were treated differently by IPA 
because of their sexuality or that their sexuality had an impact on IPAs  handling of 
the claim in any way. I can also see that IPA has given feedback to their staff about 
how they were referred to. So Im satisfied theyve responded appropriately to Mr H 
and Mr Ws concerns  on this point
There were  delays  in handling the claim.  I dont  think this impacted on Mr Hs ability  
to access treatment.  IPA were in regular  contact whilst Mr H and Mr W were  abroad 
and were chasing the medical centre for a medical report. Again, this is standard  
industry practice and Im satisfied this was addressed with appropriate urgency in 
the circumstances of Mr Hs illness. As Mr H was discharged  and able to return 
home IPA asked Mr H and Mr W to submit a claim which is what  Id expect them to 
do given that the medical bills had been paid in full
IPA acknowledges  that they should have asked for the medical  history  earlier  and 
also asked for information they already had on file. But I think the compensation 
offered fairly reflects the inconvenience caused. Thats because the medical records 
would have been needed to properly assess the claim  and the delays related to the 
period of time when Mr H had returned  to the UK and was no longer in need of 
emergency assistance
Mr W says that IPA discussed Mr Hs previous medical history  with him by accident. 
IPA appears to have  accepted there has been a breach  of data protection  legislation 
as they said in their final response it had been escalated  as a breach internally.  But I 
dont think this point  is central  to my findings in this case. Even if I thought that IPA 
had most  likely disclosed personal  information when they shouldnt  have Im not 
awarding further compensation. Thats because I dont think  it caused  Mr H or Mr W 
to experience any additional  distress  or inconvenience based on what  theyve told us 
about the information that was disclosed.  So this point doesnt  change my thoughts 
about the outcome of this complaint.
Ref: DRN09132283my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr H and Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2020.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0913228