K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out with a store 
card. Financial Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL) didnt actually sell the PPI, but its 
accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep things 
simple.
Mrs D says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI policy.
background
Mrs D opened a store card account in a shop in 2000. There was an option to take out PPI 
on the store card application form. Mrs D declined the cover at that stage. But PPI was 
subsequently added  to her account  in January 2002, following a phone call.
If Mrs D had made a successful claim on the policy for accident,  sickness  or unemployment, 
it would  have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on her card each.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. In summary,  she said that Mrs D had several  
medical conditions  when she took the policy out, and she didnt think  Mrs D would have 
taken the policy if it had been  made clear that she wouldnt be able to make  a claim for 
sickness resulting from any of those conditions. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators  view,  
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D. So it didnt have to check that it was right for 
her. It was for Mrs D to decide  whether to take the cover, knowing what  other means 
shed have had of making her store card repayments if she was off sick, or if she lost her 
job. But FICL did have a responsibility  to give Mrs D clear enough information, before 
she agreed to take the policy, to enable her to decide whether the policy  was right for 
her.
Mrs Ds told us that she suffered from a range of medical conditions when she took out 
the PPI. Shed  already had time off work  due to some of those conditions. And at least  
one of the conditions  could lead to a range of serious medical problems.
The policy wording  included some exclusions from the cover for sickness. One of them  
was that it wouldnt  pay sickness  benefits  resulting  from any sickness, disease,  
condition or injury  which Mrs D knew about,  or should have known about, when she 
took the policy out.
Ref: DRN02086402I acknowledge that Mrs D would only have been able to make  a successful sickness  
claim under the policy in any event if shed been off work for at least 30 continuous days. 
But I think some  of the conditions that she suffered from had a realistic  potential to result 
in periods off work of at least  that long. So I think there was a reasonable chance  that the 
policy wouldnt have  been of use to Mrs D when she most needed it.
Its true that Mrs D could have claimed  under the policy if shed lost her job. But I think 
its likely  that at the time when  she took the policy out, Mrs D would have thought  that 
time off sick due to one of her medical conditions was the most likely reason shed need 
to make  a claim on the policy.
I cant know exactly what was said during the phone call when  Mrs D agreed to take out 
the PPI. But taking  everything  into account,  I think its likely that if Mrs D been  given clear 
information about the restrictions relating to medical conditions, she wouldnt have 
decided to take the cover .
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs D in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs D would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs D owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs D would have 
owed when she closed her account from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs D would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs D 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs D paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs D would 
have owed FICL something on her store card. The interest  rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs D what its done to work  out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs D that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN02086403my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I require Financial Insurance  Company Limited  to 
put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0208640