K821x#15complaint
Mrs U complains about the interest charges  on her Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (trading as 
Barclaycard) account.
background
Mrs U received an email from Barclaycard suggesting she increase her monthly payment. 
But she couldnt afford to. So she asked if Barclaycard  would freeze the interest  for a short 
period. But it only agreed  to do so for one month.  
Mrs U said she was in financial difficulty. And her balance  was only going down by £5 each  
month. Shed managed to transfer  £4000 to another card. But she still owed £2000  on her 
Barclaycard account.  So she wants the interest  on the remaining balance freezing.
Barclaycard said Mrs U had only been making  the minimum monthly repayments. So itd 
contacted Mrs U to say she should consider increasing her monthly repayment. Otherwise 
she would  be in persistent debt. Barclaycard  said Mrs U had contacted it in October 2018. 
She wanted her interest freezing. To help Barclaycard suspended the interest for one month. 
And it provided contact  details for organisations that might be able to offer advice. But it 
couldnt do any more.
Mrs U wasnt satisfied with Barclaycards  response.  So she contacted  our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She considered  whether Barclaycard had done enough to 
help Mrs U. Although Mrs U had expressed concern about her credit rating being affected 
she felt Barclaycard couldve acted more sympathetically when shed asked for help. And 
she said Barclaycard  should  pay Mrs U £200 compensation.
Barclaycard didnt agree. It said it had to respond within the relevant regulatory  
considerations. And it had to take into account  the limitations Mrs U had placed  on the 
options shed  consider.  So its asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard feels it did all it could  when Mrs U asked  for help. Shed been identified as a 
customer in persistent debt. And she hadnt  been  able to reduce the outstanding balance 
through her monthly payments for a considerable period of time. So it followed guidelines 
from its regulator, the FCA, and contacted her about increasing her payments.
Mrs U told Barclaycard that wasnt possible. Shed  separated  from her partner and had two 
children to care for. And she needed  help. She was concerned about  the monthly interest on 
her account.  So she asked if Barclaycard would reduce the rate or consolidate her debt into 
a loan.
Barclaycard said there were limitations  to what Mrs U would consider. She didnt  want to do 
anything that affected her credit rating. Barclaycard  said it didnt offer consolidating loans. 
And it didnt  have any 0% interest rate offers available.  So it suggested she look at other 
providers. 
Ref: DRN08908072Barclaycard said Mrs U hadnt specifically said she was in financial difficulty. And at the time 
she wasnt behind on her payments. If Mrs U had been in arrears  it wouldve referred her to 
its recoveries team to see what it could  do to help.
Ive listened to three calls between  Mrs U and Barclaycard. Mrs U says shes received the 
message about  increasing her monthly  payments. On each occasion she explains that shes  
now on her own with her two children. And she cant  afford  to pay any more. Shes already 
paying some  £475 a month to credit  cards. And although shes not missed any payments 
shes only just managing to pay the minimum amounts each month.
Barclaycard said it didnt have any promotional rates or loans it could offer Mrs U. So it 
suggested she look at other providers. And it also passed on information about third parties  
who might  be able to help Mrs U manage  her finances. During the third call with the 
relationship manager Mrs U says she doesnt  want to do anything that might  affect  her credit 
rating. And shes concerned if she unsuccessfully applies  for loans to consolidate her debts 
she wont be able to apply  again for another six months. 
Our adjudicator felt Barclaycard  couldve  done  more to help Mrs U. And Ive considered  what 
Barclaycard said in response. But based on everything Ive seen I agree with her view. Its 
clear Mrs U was trying  to find a realistic and affordable solution to her problems. She wanted  
to reduce and then pay off her debts. She didnt want to default on her borrowing. And she 
wanted a solution that didnt affect  her credit rating and make  it harder in the future.
Although Mrs U didnt specifically say she was in financial difficulty its clear  she was asking 
for help.  Her financial circumstances had worsened.  And by paying  the bare minimum each 
month she wasnt reducing her level of debt. Mrs U describes the situation  as being in a 
vicious circle of transferring to 0% promotional rates whenever they become available. 
Even though  Mrs U wasnt behind on her payments  I do think  she said enough to suggest 
that might  become  the case  if she wasnt able to reduce her monthly outgoings. And 
Barclaycard had already identified Mrs U as being in persistent debt. Her calls make  it clear 
theres a real risk of her situation getting  worse not better.
So I think Barclaycard  couldve done  more to help. If shed been transferred to a more 
appropriate department it couldve discussed  her financial circumstances and clearly stated 
what options Mrs U had. Even if Barclaycard didnt have any products available  at the time 
Mrs U wouldve been clearer on what she needed to do.
I can see Mrs U has now been able to clear her Barclaycard balance using more  favourable  
rates from other providers. And I hope she is able to continue to manage and improve  her 
financial situation. But I think  Barclaycard couldve done more to help Mrs U. 
The FCA guidelines  which  help businesses  identify customers who are in persistent debt are 
designed to try and break that cycle  of minimal debt repayment.
So I think Barclaycard  shouldve transferred Mrs U to a team who couldve carried  out a 
more thorough review.  And it couldve made  sure Mrs U was fully informed what  her options 
were and what impact each would have.  I can see our adjudicator suggested  Barclaycard  
compensate Mrs U for not doing  more. And she suggested a figure of £200. I think  thats 
appropriate in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN08908073my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) should pay Mrs U 
£200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0890807