K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mrs O says Darlington Building  Society  (DBS) mis-sold  her the MPPI. The level of 
cover was increased on request when Mrs O borrowed more money to move properties. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Os case.
Ive decided the MPPI wasnt mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Mrs O says that she thought she would have  a better chance of getting the mortgage if 
she took out the MPPI  but shes not said much  about why she felt this was the case. 
Due to the time thats passed, theres  not much information available from the sale,  but 
this isnt unusual  for a sale that took place over twenty years ago  businesses  arent  
required to keep  records indefinitely,  and I wouldnt expect Mrs O to remember what 
happened in much  detail either. Because of this, I dont have enough  to say that Mrs O 
wasnt given a choice  in taking the MPPI   and I cant  uphold her complaint for this 
reason.
DBS didnt recommend the MPPI  to Mrs O so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs O got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information DBS gave Mrs O about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI  cover - so it 
could have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the MPPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the MPPI  would have  put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs O has said  including what shes said about  getting sick 
pay from her employer  at the time she took out the policy. But the MPPI couldve paid out on 
top of any existing sick pay she had, for up to 12 months per claim. So this point doesnt 
change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs O paid on her MPPI   and whether DBS treated 
her unfairly. 
DBS has told us that the commission for Mrs Os MPPI was less than half of what she paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how DBS has been working this out and based on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Os commission was less than half the cost of the 
MPPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed  to tell her about the commission  so I dont 
think DBS treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mrs O back any of the 
commission she paid for the MPPI. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN06154792I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0615479