K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave him a loan 
that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr W was given one instalment loan by Sunny  on 21 July 2017. The loan was repayable in 
six monthly instalments  of £100.82. Mr W repaid his first instalment  but wasnt able to make 
any more repayments.  Sunny  has sold the outstanding balance  to a third party  debt 
collection company.  
Mr Ws complaint  has been assessed  by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the checks 
Sunny had done before agreeing the loan had been  enough. And he thought  those checks 
suggested that the loans  were affordable for Mr W. So he didnt  recommend  that the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Mr W didnt agree with that assessment. He said that Sunny should have seen he was in 
difficulty by looking at his credit report.  So, as the complaint  hasnt been  resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Sunny was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to see whether Mr W 
could afford  to pay back the loan before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr W was borrowing, and his lending history,  but 
there was no set list of checks Sunny had to do.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr W. Before  granting  the loan it 
asked him for details  of his income,  and his normal expenditure.  And it checked Mr Ws 
credit file before granting the loan too. Although those checks showed  that Mr W had some  
other borrowing, I dont think those issues were sufficient to cause significant additional 
concerns to the lender.  What can be seen by the lender is very different to a full credit file 
and from what I have  seen there  was nothing to alert Sunny that Mr W was struggling or 
require further  checks.
The loan was repayable over a six month  period. So the amounts that Mr W needed to repay 
each time were smaller than if hed taken  a normal payday loan. But of course he was 
committing to making  those repayments  over a far longer period. 
The loan that Mr W took was relatively  modest compared to the income hed declared to 
Sunny. He told Sunny that his income was £1293 and his outgoings were £275. So the 
repayments all appeared to be easily affordable based on what hed told Sunny about his 
normal expenditure. So I think it was reasonable for Sunny to rely on the information Mr W 
had provided. And that suggested  that the loans  were affordable for him.
I appreciate that Mr W says his financial situation  was much worse  than he told Sunny. And 
he says that repaying  the loans has left him with ongoing financial problems. But I think 
Ref: DRN04589132Sunny was entitled to rely on the information Mr W provided at the time,  and that suggested 
the loans were affordable.
Mr W has also raised an additional  issue with regard to a default and the third party 
collection agency. I cant look at the complaint against that business  in this decision and Mr 
W will need  to raise a separate complaint  about  that matter if he is unhappy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Elevate Credit International Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0458913