K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about etika Finance UK Limiteds (EFL)  refusal to give him a refund.
background
In October  2017 Mr W entered into a point of sale loan agreement with EFL.  The purpose of 
the loan was to pay for a training course which  Mr Ws son was following with a limited 
company that I will call S.
It was always the intention that Mr Ws son would pay his dad back for the repayments under 
the loan, Mr W told us he only agreed to take out the loan because  S made false statements 
of fact about the training  course to him. Mr W complained to S because  he thought it had 
misled him. But it declined to assist  him. As Mr W had taken out a point of sale loan he 
thought this gave him protection under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. 
Specifically, he thought  it permitted him to complain to EFL about  what he said S had done. 
On this basis, he complained to EFL.
EFLs stance was that Mr W was provided with inaccurate information about how long the 
course would  take to complete. But it didnt  think that if he had been given correct 
information about this from the beginning,  Mr W would not have agreed to take out the loan. 
In other  words, EFL thought this inaccuracy  was not material  as it hadnt impacted Mr Ws 
decision either way. In any event, it thought that S had not misled Mr W. Further,  it thought 
that S had delivered the service it had contracted to provide to Mr Ws son. So, there  was 
nothing to put right anyway. As a result, EFL didnt agree it had to do anything more  for Mr 
W.
Mr W wanted this service  to look at his complaint and came to us.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding Mr Ws complaint. She explained that we 
decide complaints  on the basis of what is fair and reasonable. In doing  this, amongst other 
things, we take relevant law into account. Section 75 is relevant law. But this provision has 
some very specific requirements.  One of these  is that there must be a valid debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship between Mr W, S and EFL. However, she didnt agree that there was 
one here.  Because the parties to the training contract were  S and Mr Ws son, not Mr W. 
That meant that there was no valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship here. It followed she 
had no proper basis for asking EFL to take further action.
EFL accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr W did not. In short, he was greatly 
disappointed, he told us that the only reason  the finance was in his name was because S 
told him it had to be. He was given no other choice. Now, from his perspective,  because of 
this he is being  denied any help and S isnt being  held to account.
Mr W asked that an ombudsman  review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN01739092I have finished  my review  of Mr Ws complaint. I think  I have no proper basis to tell EFL it 
has to take any further action. I realise  this is far from what Mr W would have hoped to hear 
from me. Please let me explain why Ive come to this conclusion.
I recognise that Mr W may well want me to go into the ins and outs of his complaint. In 
particular, I can see well enough that he is very upset by what  he says S told him, his sense 
of injustice jumps off the page. But before I can look at what  he says about  
misrepresentation and breach of contract I have to go back  a step and look at what is fair 
and reasonable when  I take account of relevant regulations.
EFL can be held to account equally with S in certain  circumstances.  EFL is a regulated 
business and the type of loan it has sold is a regulated loan. Which means we can look at 
what happened here. Moreover, this type of loan also benefits from the protection of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Specifically,  Mr W is complaining about the course  that he paid 
for using  a point  of sale loan. He is correct to say that because  he used this type of finance 
he potentially has rights under relevant law including Section 75. 
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
Section 75. Neither am I making findings  against the supplier. Rather,  in deciding whats  a 
fair way to resolve  Mr Ws complaint, I have to take account of relevant law, amongst other 
things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive taken it into account. But that doesnt  mean  
Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mr W pursued 
a claim for misrepresentation or breach  of contract. Our service  is an informal  alternative to 
the courts.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr W has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract  against the supplier he can also bring that claim against EFL as I have already 
said. But that isnt the whole story, Mr W can only invoke the provisions of Section 75 
provided certain conditions are met. 
One of these conditions is that there  must be a very specific relationship  in place,  that is a 
valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. This is a pre-requisite for the operation of Section 
75.
The difficulty  here, for Mr W, is that I dont think there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship here. For there to be one he not his son would have had to have contracted with 
S. But when I look at the terms and conditions of the training contract  they make it clear  that 
the training contract was between the trainee, Mr Ws son and it.
It do appreciate that Mr W might find this very galling as he says this wasnt his choice. He 
tells us he only took out the finance  in his name because S told him he had to do this. That 
may be so, Ive made no finding about that. This makes no difference though to my thoughts 
on this one. Because the key thing  here,  as I already said, is because there is no valid 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. It follows that I cant fairly and reasonably  hold EFL to 
account here and ask it to take responsibility.
I also appreciate that from where  Mr W is standing, S has pulled a fast one by setting up 
the deal in such a way that meant,  he had no rights against the lender in this scenario under 
Section 75. But as I said above I am making  no finding about S, so I am not saying that S did 
this on purpose.  Neither do I have any power  to make any finding about S in this decision.  S 
is not a party  to this complaint EFL is.
Ref: DRN01739093I dont say any of this to upset Mr W, far from it. But based on the information Ive got, I have  
no fair and reasonable basis for saying  EFL is responsible for what  has gone  wrong  here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0173909