K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that British Gas Services Limited  mishandled a home  emergency  insurance 
policy.
background
Ms B complained that British Gas had been taking payments for cover  for glazing, locks,  
roofing, and pests (GLRP) since about  February 2011. She made that complaint in March 
2019. The Financial  Conduct Authority dispute resolution rules  (DISP)  provide (at 2.8.2  R) 
time limits for bringing a complaint. But on 14 May 2019 British Gas consented  to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  considering  the complaint where the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 
R had expired.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
British Gas had acted incorrectly. She thought  that British Gas had sent Ms B renewal 
documents, detailing  the terms and conditions of the policy, every year since the policy 
started in February  2011. 
Ms B disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint. She says,  in summary,  that:
She has never taken  out any GLRP cover.
British Gas never sent her any renewal letters. 
She needs to see the contract  and hear the call that happened  in 2011.
British Gas has made an error which they need to take responsibility  for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas says its records show that Ms B took out GLRP cover in February  2011.  I 
wouldnt expect it to have  call recordings or copies of all documents from that long ago. 
But, from British Gas records that Ive seen, Im satisfied that it generated annual  renewal  
letters saying that Ms B had GLRP cover. British Gas had got Ms Bs correct postal address. 
So I find it likely that British Gas sent all the renewal  letters through the post and Ms B 
received at least most of them.
The GLRP cover is separate from British Gas HomeCare  cover.  But British Gas has shown 
that in November 2016 Ms B cancelled  her HomeCare plumbing and drainage cover and 
continued her HomeCare boiler and controls  cover. From that I find it likely that she had 
thought about what she was paying  British Gas for. 
British Gas says it sent the most  recent  renewal letter on 5 January 2019. And Im surprised  
that it says that it didnt  keep a copy on file for any longer than 28 days  so it didnt have a 
copy when Ms B rang in on 19 February 2019.  
From the call recording, I think the first call-handler couldnt say what cover Ms B had. But 
the second call-handler told Ms B she had GLRP cover.  I accept that Ms B thought shed got 
plumbing cover. But I dont think British Gas was responsible  for that mistake.
Ref: DRN00313072Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  British  Gas to refund the premiums Ms B 
paid  or to do anything  more in response  to her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Services Limited  to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0031307