K820x#14complaint
K a limited  company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC initially  allowed a Trading As name  
to be added to Ks account but later reversed this decision. 
K is represented in this complaint by Mr A.
background
In 2014 K opened a business account  with Lloyds. In 2018, Mr A, a director of K, tried to add 
a Trading As name to this account. This would  allow cheques made payable to either  K or 
to the Trading As name to be deposited.  
Lloyds initially approved this and added  the Trading As name  to the account  in late 
November. But after further  investigation  it discovered the Trading As name  was extremely  
similar to the name  of a separate legal  entity  registered on Companies House as a dormant 
limited company. Since it was a separate legal  entity from K, Lloyds determined for security 
reasons it shouldnt have been  added to the account  name. Lloyds let Mr A know  of its 
mistake, apologised and reversed its decision in December.
Mr A complained on behalf of K. Lloyds didnt think it had done anything  wrong  in not 
permitting the addition of the Trading As name.  But it agreed  it had given  incorrect  
information and provided poor customer service. It paid K £150 compensation for this. This 
was ultimately increased to £300 in recognition of the effect of the mistake and the fact there 
will be further issues with cheques issued  by Ks clients.  
Mr A didnt think this was enough.  So he brought  Ks complaint  to this service.  One of our 
investigators looked into what happened and thought that in the circumstances  where the 
second company  was dormant, had the same director and registered to the same  address  
potential security issues were limited. She recommended Lloyds allow the Trading As name 
to be added. Lloyds responded that even though it remained  of the view that it hadnt acted 
incorrectly in removing  the trading as name, it agreed to allow the Mr A to reinstate this for 
Ks account. It didnt  think any further compensation was warranted  and the investigator  
agreed. 
Mr A thought  the compensation paid wasnt enough  in the circumstances, so this complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and there is very little I can add to whats  she said.
But I think its important that I make clear that the mistake made here was Lloyds allowing a 
Trading As name to be added to Ks account in the first place, since  it wasnt in accordance 
with its security procedures. And I consider the £300 compensation already paid to K fair in 
light of the impact of the mistake, given how quickly Lloyds discovered  the error  and 
corrected itself.
Banks are entitled to implement policies and procedures to protect the security of the 
accounts held with it. I dont think Lloyds were  unreasonable  in not allowing the Trading  As 
Ref: DRN00461712name  which  is nearly identical  to the name of a separate  limited  company  to be added to 
the account. So I dont think it did anything wrong  in later providing  K notice and removing 
the name when  it was discovered how similar it was to another limited  company. 
Since the complaint was brought to this service, Lloyds has allowed the Trading As name  
on the account. This was done  as a good  will gesture and after agreeing  with our 
investigator that the security risk in these particular circumstances was very low. I dont see 
anything wrong  with Lloyds changing its mind here and doing so is precisely  what K wanted. 
Lloyds was under no obligation to allow the Trading  As name in the first place, so I cant 
see further action  or compensation  is warranted  here.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A, on behalf  of 
K, to accept or reject  my decision before 22 August 2019. 
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0046171