K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about issued hes experienced with a car supplied  with finance from BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited.
background
In January 2017 Mr S was supplied with a used car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS. At the point of supply  the car was 3 years  old and had covered 
24,500 miles.
In June 2018 the car broke down. It was diagnosed with a shredded alternator caused by the 
alternator pulley seizing. The engine had to be replaced.
The manufacturer paid for 60% of the repair costs leaving a balance  of £2,574.12. Mr S 
wants BMWFS  to pay for the remaining repair costs. He thinks  the car had a fault at the 
point of supply.
BMWFS rejected the complaint. It said Mr S hadnt shown that the fault was present at the 
point of supply.  It offered  to waive two monthly payments as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr S wasnt  happy with the response so he complained  to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He was satisfied, based  on the technicians report, 
that the fault was a manufacturing  fault and asked  BMWFS to pay for the repair  costs.
BMWFS didnt agree. It said the part failed 19 months  into the agreement and that the 
technicians report didnt  confirm the fault was present at the point of supply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMWFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied  
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Cars  are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person  would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances 
such as (amongst other things) the age and mileage of the car and the price  paid.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault occurs in the first 6 months,  its 
presumed that it was present or developing at the point  of supply unless the business  can 
show otherwise. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer  
in this case Mr S  to show  that the fault was present at the point of supply.
Ive looked at the available evidence including the technicians report  and the letter from the 
manufacturer. The technicians report says that the alternator pulley seized which means 
this is a defect to the part and not damaged by outside influences.
The letter from the manufacturer  says we do have  a process  of goodwill to help towards 
repairs should the issue be due to a manufacturing fault. Ive seen that the manufacturer  
paid 60% of the repair costs. I dont think it would have done this if it hadnt  been of the 
opinion that there was a manufacturing  fault.
Ref: DRN01711012Ive taken into account the age and mileage of the car. Given  that the car was around 5 
years old at the time when the fault occurred and had covered average mileage,  I dont  think 
a reasonable person would expect  to experience this type of fault and have to replace the 
engine in a car of this age and mileage.
Ive taken into account what BMWFS has said about  part failures. But in this case, the 
technicians report refers  to a part defect as opposed  to a part failure, and expressly states 
that this isnt caused by external influences. On balance, Im persuaded that there was a 
manufacturing defect.  I think Mr S has provided  enough evidence  to show that the fault was 
present at the point of supply, which means  that car isnt of satisfactory quality.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited must 
pay the balance  of the repair costs  of £2,574.12. It should also pay compensation of £300 for 
the trouble and upset caused to Mr S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0171101