K820x#14complaint
Mr F1 and Mr F2 complain that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading  as Aegon) didnt give an 
explanation or include  sufficient interest on a second corrective payment it made  from their 
late fathers self-invested personal  pension (SIPP)  in 2012.
background
The late Mr F sadly died in May 2001  and the proceeds of his SIPP were paid out in 2003 
under a discretionary trust, which Aegon decided to exercise in favour of his two sons, Mr F1 
and Mr F2. In June 2012 Aegon got back in touch  with the beneficiaries, having identified  a 
shortfall in the amount it paid in 2003  as charges had been incorrectly applied to the late 
Mr Fs plan over a number of years  previously. It sent them a further cheque.
In early 2018 another of the late Mr Fs pension providers identified a similar  charging  error, 
and offered his beneficiaries a corrective payment that included interest at the variable rate 
of 1% above the Bank of England base  rate. It appears that the beneficiaries challenged that 
payment and that insurer agreed to increase it to a fixed rate of 8% per year simple  which  
it described as the recommended Financial Ombudsman Service rate.
Mr F1 and Mr F2 then complained about why Aegon hadnt identified  its own charging error  
sooner than 2012, and why more interest  hadnt been paid. Aegon explained that in 2012  it 
had followed  its standard approach to paying  interest (which  was Bank of England plus 1% 
compound, like the other insurers  initial  offer) and was unwilling to increase the rate. It 
added that it hadnt been aware of the charging  error before 2012. It offered them £200 for 
putting them  to the trouble of providing  further  identification.
Mr F1 and Mr F2 didnt agree with this and came to the ombudsman service. Aegon  initially  
said that it hadnt consented  to the ombudsman service looking into the complaint  under our 
time limits, but I took the view that it had done so in its final response  letter.  Aegon  then 
agreed to withdraw  its objection.
The beneficiaries believe they are entitled  to interest  at a fixed  rate equal  to the prevailing 
Bank of England  base rate at the time of Mr Fs death (5.5%pa),  plus the statutory rate of 8% 
per year. Both of these  rates (separately,  but not added  together) have been used in specific  
situations by the ombudsman  service  in the past. Theyve said:
I was not aware  of the law on the owing  of such monies until a month  or two ago and now 
I have raised the complaint. With any money  I might owe for example on a credit card,  I 
would be required to pay higher levels of interest than 8% and it would be compound  interest 
and possibly compounded on a monthly  basis I was not aware of 1% interest  only and the 
rule of statutory interest until 2017.
One of our investigators  looked into the merits of the complaint and didnt think  it should 
succeed. In summary,  he said: 
It's unusual for a complaint  about  the rate of interest used to be raised  so long after 
the date it was paid. 
He hadn't seen  anything that would've prevented them  from questioning the rate in 
2012 (as they decided to do with the other  provider in 2018), so he could  only 
assume they were  satisfied with the rate when  it was paid.
The ombudsman service wouldnt necessarily  have taken the same approach in 2012 
as the other insurer agreed to take when Mr F1 and Mr F2 disputed the other 
payment in 2018.
Ref: DRN07833452In 2012 we considered the Bank of England base rate plus 1% as an appropriate 
benchmark for calculating the loss of any investment growth caused by a delay.
He could see that Aegon had also shared its approach with the regulator, the 
Financial Services Authority (FSA),  when it wrote  out to customers (or beneficiaries) 
affected by the discrepancies in charges on its plans in 2012.
So the investigator wasnt satisfied that an ombudsman  would  have concluded, in 2012, that 
Aegons use of the Bank of England base rate plus 1% was unfair or unreasonable in the 
circumstances. Aegon  believed  that what it had offered in 2012  was consistent with the 
Financial Ombudsman  Services  approach  at that time. So it wasnt  appropriate  to consider 
this complaint in light of what our approach now, given  the significant  time thats  passed.
Aegon said it had nothing  further to add. Mr F1 accepted the investigators  findings but 
Mr F2 didnt agree. He said he couldnt  accept that the Bank  of England  base rate plus 1% 
could have been a fair benchmark, given that he owed debts that charged interest  at over 
18% p.a. and often  compound interest  that accumulates monthly. He considered  the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  was strongly  affiliated to those investment pension  banks 
who you "help" to regulate.
Mr F2 also referred to our current website notes on compensation for being  deprived of 
money and investment loss. He was seeking compensation by reference to the fact his 
residential property  had doubled in value from 2003  to now.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During the investigators review of the file, he asked Mr F1 and Mr F2 what they originally 
spent the distribution  from their late fathers  pension on. Mr F2 said that he would have 
invested the money in his residential  property. Mr F1 said he put the funds in 2003 towards 
buying a property.
Aegon didnt ask these questions in 2012   there was no particular reason  it had to do so, as 
it was carrying out a past book review of its charges under discussion with the regulator.  So 
the compensation everyone received in this review  didnt alter based  on their personal  
situation. 
However if Aegon had taken their personal  situations into account  in 2012, I dont think  it 
was necessarily wrong to refer to the Financial  Ombudsman Services  benchmark  of 
compensation for an investment  loss, rather than for being deprived of money.  Thats 
because the contributions Mr F1 and Mr F2 made  towards the acquisition  or improvement of 
property was a form of an investment  it would potentially increase the value they realise  
from the property. They  werent necessarily  deprived of money which they would have spent. 
It could equally be argued that they were deprived  of the opportunity  to invest that money.
At the very least,  I think Aegon  was entitled  to expect Mr F1 and Mr F2 to question  the rate 
of interest it was going to pay on the late distribution  from their fathers estate,  if they didnt 
consider it was sufficient.  When Aegon wrote  to their solicitor  in May 2012, it included  a 
questions and answers document which confirmed, Interest is calculated at the
prevailing Bank of England base rate plus 1%. They  were also given the breakdown of the 
amount of interest  (£603) included in the total amount  (£1,943).  I should point out that over 
much of the period from 2003 to 2012,  the Bank  of England base rate had been around  5%.
Ref: DRN07833453Mr F1 has referred to having  paid interest at 18% per year.  Although this doesnt appear  to 
directly tally with the details he provided  of an investment  he made in property, I think it 
would have been reasonable to expect him to query why Aegon was only paying  interest  of 
up to about 6% per year at the time it distributed  the extra money. Later  on, a different 
provider used the same Bank of England base rate plus 1% on its payment, and Mr F1 and 
Mr F2 did question the rate on that occasion.  I think they could reasonably  have done the 
same thing with Aegon in 2012   the fact that they didnt  do so suggests  to me that they 
considered the £603 fair compensation for the loss of investment opportunity on this money.
From what  I can see, it was the new provider that said 8% simple interest was the Financial 
Ombudsman Services recommended rate. This is indeed  mentioned  in the note Mr F1 has 
found on our website. We may decide  to use that rate where  a consumer has been deprived  
of money they would have spent. Its called a statutory  rate as its the rate payable on certain  
court judgements. But thats not the same  thing as saying a court  would have awarded 8% 
simple interest for the period prior to its judgment, if Mr F1 and Mr F2 had taken their dispute 
to court.  We dont know what a court might have awarded.
Our approach in 2012  which isnt mentioned  in the note, as it has since  changed  to a 
variety of investment  benchmarks  was to award Bank of England base  rate plus 1% as 
compensation for investment  loss. We used that method as an approximation, even though  
investments could both rise and fall in value. So we may have applied that approach  in this 
case, and not awarded Mr F1 and Mr F2 any more compensation.
I appreciate it was the other provider second  guessing what we might otherwise award in 
that case in 2018 which prompted  this complaint. But that doesnt  mean  the two disputes  are 
the same; that Aegons approach in 2012  was fundamentally incorrect; or that its fair or 
reasonable to reopen a matter that had been settled without dispute about six years  earlier.  I 
say this without  any affiliation to Aegon   Im on neither Mr F1 and Mr F2s or Aegons side.  
We also dont regulate Aegon  thats currently the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
And Ive said above that the former regulator, the FSA, seems to have been  aware of the 
approach Aegon was taking when  it contacted  policyholders  or their beneficiaries in 2012.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award. I trust that Aegons offer of £200 to Mr F1 
and Mr F2 is still open to them, should they wish to accept it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F1 and Mr F2 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Gideon Moore 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0783345