K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1989. Mr and Mrs B say Newcastle Building Society (NBS) mis-sold them the MPPI.
The mortgage was in joint names, but the policy only covered Mr B. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I now this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs B  
and Id like to thank  them for their patience during the time its taken to look at their 
complaint. Ill explain  the reasons for my decision below. 
Mr and Mrs B say that they thought  that they had to take out the MPPI or they wouldnt 
get the mortgage. They  also say that they were young and nave at the time, and trusted 
NBS to tell them  what they needed  to do. I cant be certain what was said to them to 
make them  feel this way  and Mr and Mrs B havent provided much  detail  on what  lead 
them to believe this was the case  so I have to base my decision on the information I do 
have.
NBS has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application  I can see on this that 
the MPPI  is presented as optional  - and has been selected with a tick. Mr and Mrs B 
have then signed this application. Mr B also completed and signed a separate 
application for the policy. And while I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B were relatively young 
at the time, they were  still applying  for an important financial  commitment,  so I wouldve 
expected them to make  sure they understood the product they were  applying for and ask 
questions if they were unsure.
So taking everything in to account,  I think NBS made it clear  that Mr and Mrs B didnt  
have to take out the MPPI and that they chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why they cant  remember  this as it was so long ago.
NBS didnt recommend the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for them. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs B got the information  they needed to 
decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information NBS gave Mr and Mrs B about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take out the MPPI  - so it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like Mr B was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover  - so it 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like the MPPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover.  
This means NBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs B.
Ref: DRN07214042But NBS will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs B because: 
NBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because NBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, NBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B has said - including what  theyve  said about Mr 
B having a good steady income  in a reliable and well paid job at the time the policy  was 
taken out. But MPPI,  like all insurance, is taken  out to protect against the unknown. NBS has 
also confirmed that a successful unemployment claim was made  in the same  year the policy  
was taken out. So this point doesnt change my decision. 
what the business needs  to do
NBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the MPPI  premium. NBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
NBS should pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. NBS should also 
pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax if  they dont  pay 
tax.
Ref: DRN07214043my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Newcastle Building Society does  not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Newcastle Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0721404