K821x#15complaint
Mr D is complaining about how Allianz Insurance Plc settled his pet insurance  claim and 
surrounding issues.
Background
Earlier in September 2019 I issued a provisional decision saying that I was minded to uphold  
the complaint  but to award  a lesser amount of redress. I invited both parties to let me have 
any further submissions before I reached  my final decision. Both parties  have responded 
stating that theyve received my provisional  decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Allianz has agreed with the position set out in my provisional decision.  Mr D has responded 
and largely recounted what  has happened  during the timeframe  concerned.  Mr D hasnt 
chosen to argue where my thinking  is wrong in the justification of my position. Mr D has 
repeated his displeasure at what happened with Allianz. Specifically Mr D hasnt argued that 
the impact on him was worse than I have  outlined. And I appreciate what  happened  wasnt  
perfect from Mr Ds point  of view. However  I dont think Mr D has provided any persuasive 
reasoning for why I should change my position on any element including regarding  Ms D. 
Accordingly I see no persuasive  reason to deviate from the position as set out in my 
provisional decision. Consequently  this complaint is upheld.
What the business needs  to do
So considering everything that has happened here it is my decision that Allianz Insurance  
Plc should pay Mr D £125 to reflect  the distress and inconvenience caused on top of the £40 
of vouchers it paid previously.
my final decision
For the above reasons and those described in my provisional decision attached  Allianz 
Insurance Plc should make  payment  as I have described above within 28 days of this 
decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 October  2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00161452COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr D is complaining about  how Allianz  Insurance Plc settled his pet insurance claim  and surrounding  
issues.
background
Mr D made a claim on his pet insurance  for his dog. There was ongoing treatment and Mr D sourced 
medication for this treatment elsewhere and more  cheaply. Mr D says he was given incorrect 
information about getting these costs paid. There were also difficulties with getting veterinary  history 
and other  customer service issues including  a phone call and general delays. So Mr D complained to 
Allianz.
Allianz agreed in part with Mr D and gave him £40 worth  of vouchers. Mr D felt this was far too little 
considering what had happened. So Mr D complained  to this service.
The investigator agreed with Mr D and decided that Allianz should  pay an additional £175 plus the 
vouchers already provided. Mr D accepted this position.  After much correspondence Allianz  has 
moved to offer £125 but has asked for an Ombudsmans  decision as it feels £175 plus vouchers  is 
unreasonable considering what happened.
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of their complaint.
I have decided to issue a provisional  decision at this stage which allows  both parties one final say on 
the matter.
I think  it is reasonable  for first claims on a pet insurance  policy for a full clinical history to be 
considered to see if there is information in that history which might  impact the claim. As the dog had 
only been registered with the current vet since 2014 but was born in 2009 it was reasonable for 
Allianz to want to see the dogs  history from 2009 to 2014.  However there was some delay 
attributable in this process to Allianz.  And Allianz paid £40 in vouchers  to reflect the delays to the 
initial claim of 16 June  2018.
Mr D raised the issue of the accounting charge  on the vets statements of account  and also queried 
a sharps bin and their impact on the excess charged. Neither of these  were billed  for in the end, so 
they didnt impact  the excess paid. So I dont think Mr D lost out here. 
Mr D also raised the issue of claiming  for medication  sourced  independently at a lower cost than that 
charged by the vet (thus  making it cheaper for Allianz). It is clear that Mr D wasnt properly  informed 
about what to do regarding such a claim on the call in question (5 September). But I can see that the 
first payment  towards  this medication  was paid on 21 September. So there was a delay of around 16 
days between when the claim was paid and the earliest it could have been paid. So there is some 
delay here.
Due to all that had happened Mr D closed his policy  in October 2018. Due to the type of policy it was 
and that it was due to renew in November 2018  it is clear Mr D wouldnt have been able to claim on 
the policy  for the condition the dog had after it renewed as Allianz  at the point of renewal  would have 
excluded the dogs illness. And Im happy that Allianz had made  this clear. So I dont think  hes lost 
out because of this.
Ref: DRN00161453Lastly Mr Ds representative (Ms D) has talked about how she suffered medical effects  due to all that 
has happened. However as she isnt the policyholder I cannot consider the impact of whats 
happened on her as she isnt eligible  to complain here about what happened.
This leaves the crux of the remaining complaint, which is the amount Allianz needs to pay to 
compensate for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Allianz has accepted incorrect  information was given and its call handler  was unhelpful and that this 
would have led to frustration for Mr D. I have listened to the call. The call handler takes Mr D through 
security and then Mr D explains the situation. Then the call handler gives incorrect information. There  
is then a bit of circular  conversation between Mr D and the call handler. Mr D then says he wants to 
pass the phone to his partner (roughly 3 minutes and 37 seconds into the call).  Im satisfied  he 
leaves the call because hes frustrated  with the situation rather than any rudeness by the call handler.
Ms D then comes onto the line and the call handler  continues to give incorrect information. Then at 
roughly 9 minutes 50 seconds into the call Ms D asks to speak  to a supervisor. The call handler says 
straightaway  I cant give you a supervisor.  Ms D then says why? The call handler then says the 
supervisor will tell you the same thing . The call continues in a circular fast paced discussion  with the 
call handler  clearly  not knowing how to deal with the matter but continues to say the vets must sign 
the claim form and Ms D pointing out the difficulties that causes.  Ms D ends the call after fifteen 
minutes. 
At no point is the call handler  offensive to either Mr D or Ms D. There  is a degree of interjection by 
both parties  when the other party is speaking. But Im not persuaded there is any significant  talking 
over either  Ms D or Mr D by the call handler.  The call handler is wrong regarding the situation and this 
would be frustrating.  However Im not persuaded he was rude or deliberately difficult. And although 
Ms D asked to speak to a supervisor and this didnt happen I dont think the delay that followed on 
from this had significant  impact on Mr D.
This service isnt here to punish businesses but to rather  to make awards for the impact on 
consumers where businesses  get things wrong. All in all I dont think all that happened had 
substantial impact on Mr D. So I currently think £175 plus the voucher is excessive. Allianzs  latest 
offer was £125 plus the voucher and that seems a fair and reasonable solution to this complaint  in the 
circumstances at this time.
Mr D has referred  to Allianzs unwillingness  to cooperate in the matter  and disrespectful of the initial 
decision made  by the investigator. They also feel that Allianz hasnt shown  any remorse  or 
accountability for their actions. However just as consumers can disagree with the views of 
investigators and ask for an Ombudsmans  decision, so can businesses. Allianz has chosen to do this 
here. And I think Allianz has cooperated throughout and particularly in significantly  increasing its offer 
which Mr D has refused.
What the business  should  do to put things right
So considering everything that has happened here it is my current  position  that Allianz Insurance Plc 
should pay Mr D £125 to reflect the distress and inconvenience  caused on top of the £40 of vouchers  
it offered earlier.
my provisional  decision
I am currently minded to uphold  this complaint and direct Allianz Insurance Plc to resolve matters  as 
Ive described above. As such  I now invite  both parties to let me have their responses in line with the 
guidance at the beginning of this decision.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0016145