K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Santander  UK Plc gave them  misleading  information and 
delayed their mortgage application so that they couldnt reclaim an early repayment charge 
(ERC). They  ask that Santander refunds  the ERC and pays compensation for the way they 
were treated.
background
Mr and Mrs H intended to sell their property  in December 2017. They contacted  Santander 
about porting  their mortgage to a new property and avoiding an ERC. Santander said theyd 
have a three month window to open a new mortgage account  and have the ERC refunded. 
Mr and Mrs H sold their property and repaid the mortgage on 15 December 2017. They paid 
an ERC of about  £12,700.
Mr and Mrs H had an offer accepted on a property and applied  to Santander for a mortgage  
in early February 2018. This was declined due to adverse data on their credit files. This was 
sorted out and Santander issued a mortgage  offer on 14 March  2018. But it was too late for 
the purchase and mortgage to complete within the three months  window. Mr and Mrs H say 
Santander deliberately delayed the mortgage application so that they wouldnt be able to 
reclaim the ERC.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She said Santander 
had told Mr and Mrs H in December 2017 that to be eligible for a refund of the ERC  they 
needed to open a new mortgage account within three months of repaying their mortgage. 
They didnt do this, but this wasnt because Santander deliberately delayed the mortgage 
application. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. In summary,  Mrs H said she wasnt  given clear information about  
the ERC  when she called Santander in December 2017. She says if theyd known how much 
it was, theyd have  considered postponing  their sale until the end of the mortgage product. 
And it wasnt clear that theyd have to complete the purchase within three months,  which 
Mrs H says isnt reasonable.  
Mrs H also said the way Santander dealt with the adverse data on their credit  files was 
unreasonable and Santander gave her inconsistent information about their application  being  
declined. Mrs H says she should have been  able to speak to the underwriters  directly  about 
this. Mrs H feels strongly that Santander  treated  her unfairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with Santander  in 2015. The mortgage offer said an ERC  
was payable if the mortgage was repaid  before  2 March 2018. As the mortgage  was repaid 
in December 2017, I think Santander was entitled  to apply the ERC.  The mortgage offer 
Ref: DRN09154482says the ERC is a percentage  of the amount  repaid. It gives examples of the amount of the 
ERC if the mortgage  was repaid on certain dates.
Mrs H called Santander in December 2017 to say theyd sold their property and the sale 
would complete the following week. She said they hadnt  yet found a property to buy. Mrs H 
asked what her options were with the ERC. Santander said theyd have three  months from 
closing the account to open a new mortgage  account with Santander to have the ERC 
refunded. 
Mrs H says Santander didnt tell her how much  the ERC would be. However, this was set out 
in the mortgage offer. And if she wasnt sure, she could  have  asked Santander. The 
mortgage terms and conditions say Santander  may refund all of some  of an ERC if the 
customer enters a new mortgage  within three months of repaying their mortgage. 
I dont think Santander  misled Mr and Mrs H about the amount of the ERC or the 
circumstances in which it would be refunded.  
Mr and Mrs H didnt take out a new mortgage  with Santander within  three months of 
repaying the mortgage. So they didnt qualify for all or part of the ERC  to be refunded.
I might  find it reasonable to require Santander to refund the ERC if I found that Mr and Mrs H 
didnt take out a new mortgage within the three months window because  Santander made 
errors or acted unreasonably. But I dont think thats the case  here.
Mr and Mrs H applied to Santander  for a new mortgage on 5 February 2018. There was 
adverse data on Mr Hs credit file which meant their application was declined. It seems the 
adverse data was due to errors  by the creditors and, from what Mrs H says,  related to small 
sums of money. I appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs frustration with this. But the adverse data 
meant they didnt meet  Santanders  lending criteria. Santander told Mr and Mrs H why their 
application was declined and what it needed them to provide to consider their application.  I 
think this was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs H provided a letter from one creditor accepting fault with the adverse data on 
19 February 2018. Santander  allowed  an appeal  and a new application was started before 
the end of February. Mrs H doesnt  agree that all of the information Santander asked for was 
necessary. But I think Santander was entitled  to ask for information  to help it assess  the 
application. I think Santander processed  the application within  a reasonable time. It issued a 
mortgage offer on 14 March 2018.  
I dont think its reasonable to say that the mortgage didnt complete because Santander 
caused unnecessary  delays  with the mortgage application. Id also note that in May 2018, 
after a survey of the property, Mr and Mrs H decided not to go ahead  with the purchase. 
They purchased a different property. 
Mrs H says she applied for a mortgage  with another high street lender and was given a 
mortgage offer within two hours. She hasnt provided evidence  of this. But Santander is 
entitled to set it own lending criteria and processes to assess mortgage applications. 
Im sorry  that Mr and Mrs H werent  able to complete their purchase and mortgage within the 
three month window so that all or part of their ERC was refunded.  But I dont think this was 
due to errors by Santander. I think Santander made Mr and Mrs H aware  of the ERC  and the 
Ref: DRN09154483three months window  to open a new mortgage account if this was to be refunded. And I dont 
think it acted unreasonably  when they applied for a new mortgage. 
It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander to refund the ERC or 
pay compensation to Mr and Mrs H.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0915448