K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to Mr M. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  with a credit card PPI policy starting in 1999.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
The sale took place  about 20 years ago and there  are no original documents  surviving about 
the sale of the PPI. I also wouldnt  expect someone  to recall in detail everything  that 
happened so many years ago when the PPI started.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case  and trying to 
reach a fair decision. 
Ive considered what Mr M has said, but Ive decided the policy probably wasnt  mis-sold.  I 
will explain  why:
I think Bank of Scotland probably made  Mr M aware that the PPI was optional  and 
that he chose  to take it  although  I can understand why he can no longer remember 
this. The ombudsman service has information  about the application forms and 
standard practices used by Bank of Scotland at this time.  This suggests that Bank of 
Scotland would  have  presented the PPI as a choice.  And I dont have strong 
evidence to suggest this didnt happen in Mr Ms case.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr M, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The PPI could 
have helped pay the credit card bill for a period longer than Mr Ms employer sick pay 
and other resources lasted. And it would have paid out at the same time as any sick 
pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mr M more  financially secure  for longer. It would 
have meant Mr M wouldnt need  to fall back on other resources so soon. So the PPI 
was potentially useful.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And I cant  see any 
other reason  why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the PPI. Its possible 
the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But I dont think,  in his circumstances,  full information about costs 
and benefits would have affected whether  he took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like 
hed have been affected by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy. 
Ref: DRN09797982my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  26 May 2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0979798