K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Ferratum UK Ltd was irresponsible  to lend him money,
background
Mr H took out one instalment loan with Ferratum  in January 2018 He was due to repay £500 
by three  monthly  instalments, the highest of which was £254.
Mr H says that he had a gambling  addiction and when Ferratum lent to him, he had multiple  
payday loans  from other  lenders.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint be upheld.  The adjudicator said that 
he wouldnt  have expected Ferratum to ask for the level of information that wouldve shown 
the loan to be unaffordable.
Mr H doesnt agree with the adjudicators recommendation. He says that other lenders have 
upheld his claims of irresponsible lending. Mr H says that he is now in a debt management 
plan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Ferratum should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN02584192Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Ferratum has given  us evidence that it asked  Mr H for details of his monthly  income and it 
checked his credit file. I cant see anything in Ferratums  credit checks that should have 
reasonably prompted it to ask more questions than it did. 
As it was early on in Mr Hs lending history  with Ferratum and the maximum  repayment  on 
the loan represented a fairly modest  proportion of his declared monthly income  of £3,000,  I 
think that Ferratum carried out proportionate checks. Based on the information it held about  
Mr H, it looked to Ferratum as though he could afford to repay the loan.
I dont think it was reasonable  to expect Ferratum to independently verify  the information  that 
Mr H gave by asking  to see bank statements for example. This means that Ferratum  couldnt 
have known about Mr Hs gambling addiction unless  hed disclosed it.
I appreciate that Mr Hs financial situation  was worse that he told Ferratum but I dont 
consider proportionate  checks wouldve revealed this. Its for this reason that Im not 
upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
I need to consider each complaint on its own merits. This means that even if other lenders 
have upheld Mr Hs complaint about  loans  taken around a similar  time,  it doesnt necessarily 
mean that I must do the same.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0258419