K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ds complaint is about the level of commission received by Santander  Cards  UK Limited 
(Santander Cards) on her payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy  that was attached to 
a store  card.
background
Santander Cards says it looked at Mrs Ds store  card account to determine  whether it was 
going to offer any compensation  for the level of commission and profit  share it received. It 
said that as Mrs D hadnt paid any premiums after 6 April 2007  it didnt  have to pay her any 
compensation.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. They explained that we can only look at whether 
Santander Cards treated  Mrs D unfairly  about commission  from 6 April 2007 and as it didnt 
look like Mrs D had paid any PPI premiums after 6 April 2007,  they didnt think Santander 
Cards had to refund  any of the commission Mrs D paid.
Mrs D didnt agree with what the adjudicator  said. She says she believes she is entitled  to a 
refund of any commission she paid as part of her premiums, regardless of when they were 
paid.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved it has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
why 6 April 2007  is an important date
We can only look into complaints where we have the power to. The rules  we follow (set out 
in FCA handbook)  give a list of activities that we can look at complaints about.
Before the 6 April 2007, we couldnt look at complaints about some  consumer  credit  
activities, including complaints about  store cards. On 6 April 2007  our powers were extended 
and complaints about store cards, like Mrs Ds, became something we could look at. But 
only about things  that happened  on, or after 6 April 2007.
Put simply, this means I dont have the power, in this case,  to look at what  happened  before 
6 April 2007. I can only look at what happened  from 6 April 2007 onwards. 
what does this mean for Mrs D
This means  that I can only look at whether Santander Cards  treated Mrs D unfairly in relation  
to the commission  and profit share  it received on any premiums Mrs D paid after 6 April 
2007  and not before.
Ref: DRN00460342Santander Cards has said that Mrs D wasnt charged any premiums after this date. So, it 
doesnt need to refund anything. As Mrs D didnt pay anything for the PPI on or after 6 April 
2007, there is nothing  for it to consider giving back.   
Santander Cards has provided a transaction summary of Mrs Ds store  card account. It 
shows that while Mrs Ds store card continued to run after 1 April 2005, she didnt pay any 
premiums for her PPI from this date onwards. 
Having considered the evidence provided by both Mrs D and Santander  Cards,  I think  its 
unlikely Mrs D paid any PPI premiums  after 6 April 2007. That means  I cant tell Santander 
Cards to pay Mrs D back any of the commission or profit share she paid for the PPI sold with 
her store card.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2021.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0046034