K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  HSBC UK Bank  Plc will not refund some  disputed transactions.
Mrs B brings this complaint on behalf of herself and Mr B  so for ease, I will to Mrs B 
throughout this decision.
background
Between 14th and 20th February 2018, a number of transactions  were  made  from Mr and  
Mrs Bs account to another account held with a bank  who I will call S.  Daily payments  of 
£250 each were made. These were  made  using Mr Bs card on the account  but Mrs B says 
these were not authorised.
On 13th February a number  of smaller  payments had also been  made  to a supermarket and 
a train operator  by way of manual key entry and online  card not present  transactions 
respectively.  These transactions were also made  using Mr Bs card and were also disputed.
Whilst HSBC carried out its investigations,  it refunded the full amount in dispute  but it then 
re-debited the seven transactions to S.  Mrs B says she was given a number of reasons why 
this was but ultimately, HSBC rejected her complaint.  The transactions made to the 
supermarket and the train operator  were  not re-debited.
Mrs B says she was initially told the reason for rejecting her complaint was because there 
had been no attempts to access the account  once the card had been  cancelled  this being 
indicative of the person  making the transactions having more  knowledge than a stranger.  
She was then told that she had made  payments to this bank before - and when she disputed  
this, she was told the device used to make the payments had been the same device used to 
make non disputed  payments in the past.
So, Mrs B then came to this service.   Her  submissions as to why HSBC was wrong  to hold 
them liable included the following:
-the account held with S has nothing to do with them;
-HSBC accepted, by virtue of the refund on the transactions from 13th February, that 
Mr and Mrs Bs account had been  accessed by fraudsters;
-there had been an attempt  to transfer  another £250 to S after the fraud had been  
reported and the card cancelled  so the fraudster must have been a stranger;
-the device  ID which  HSBC says matched non disputed transactions  was capable  of 
being copied;
-Mr and Mrs B had no reason to make these transactions and then claim they were  
fraudulent because of the relatively healthy balance  on their account  and their high 
net worth;
When our investigator looked  into matters  for her, he did not think he could ask HSBC to do 
anymore.  He explained this to Mrs B  but she was not happy  and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Ref: DRN04051962Our investigator has already explained the process around authorisation to Mrs B  its the 
combination of authentication and consent.   He has also explained that HSBC needs to 
show both elements of authorisation in order to hold Mr and Mrs B liable for these 
transactions.
From the evidence I have  seen, I am satisfied that the transactions  were authenticated  
because Mr Bs card details would have  been  entered to make  the transactions.   But as I 
said, thats not enough to hold them liable.
I have considered Mrs Bs arguments  as to why she thinks  HSBC is wrong to hold her liable.  
And there is some strength in her submissions.  My role is to decide whether HSBC  has 
been unreasonable or unfair in its stance.
The evidence which cannot be ignored  here is the documentary evidence  of the matching ID 
device.  I accept HSBC  cannot  categorically  prove  that the device is something which  Mr or 
Mrs B owns   but on balance, I think its enough  in the circumstances of this case  for it be 
relied upon.  The evidence shows that a device which had been used to make  genuine 
payments had also been used to make these  transactions  to S.
In light of this evidence, I asked Mr and Mrs B for further submissions on who else might 
have had access to their devices.  They run a business and it was possible that they 
employed others who were able to gain access.   They have told me that this was not 
possible as there is no-one  else involved in running  their business and whilst they have three  
grown up children,  they all live away in their own homes.
So, Ive had to consider  carefully whether I think HSBC is wrong in holding them liable  and 
on balance, I cannot say that it is.  Mrs  B has provided us with an article which suggests that 
device IDs  especially  those from the type of phones which she uses   are almost identical.  
This was an article written  in the USA and dated  back to 2013.  I have seen nothing  to 
confirm the provenance of that article i.e where  that information was obtained from and how 
reliable it is.  
In the circumstances, I am afraid  that from the evidence available, I think  Mr B authorised 
these transactions  and so I wont be asking HSBC to refund them.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 June  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0405196