K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by Barclays Bank  
UK PLC when she took out a credit  card in 2008 over the internet. 
background
Mrs C has already been paid some  money  for the commission Barclays  received from selling 
her the PPI. However,  I issued a provisional  decision  (summary attached)  in January  2019, 
setting out why I thought the complaint about  the mis-sale shouldnt be upheld. And I asked  
both parties to provide any further  submissions  or information to me within one month.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Neither party  has sent in any new 
information or arguments. So theres no reason for me to change  the findings  I set out in my 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Cs mis-sale complaint. And dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
any compensation. As Ive said, Mrs C has already  been paid some money for the 
commission Barclays received from selling her the PPI. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN04804932summary  provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
when she took out a credit  card in 2008 over the internet. 
background
Mrs C has already been paid some money for the commission Barclays received  from selling her the 
PPI. However, our adjudicator who looked at this case  said the complaint about the PPI being mis-
sold in the first place should also be upheld. 
Barclays disagreed  and so the complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  
Having done this, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C, but I dont currently intend to uphold  the complaint  
about the mis-sale. 
Mrs Cs main and original  point of complaint was that she didnt agree to PPI and didnt know it had 
been added to her credit card account.
I dont doubt that this is now her honest  recollection, but Im afraid I think she would have been able to 
see at the time that she had both asked for the PPI  and that it had been set up for her. 
I say this because weve seen quite a few similar internet-based  sales to this one and as a 
consequence, we have a good understanding of the procedures that were normally used. We know, 
for example,  that consumers like Mrs C would have had to either agree  to, or decline, the PPI when 
they were making their way through the on-line  form before being allowed  to finish their application. 
We no longer have access to Mrs Cs actual form, but thats not unusual given the type of application  
and when it took place.  Barclays sent us an example of the type of application form Mrs C would  
have used when she was applying for her card. And because we now know PPI was added to her 
account, I think its highly likely she selected  the yes option.
As well as this, I can see Mrs Cs monthly credit card statements showed that she was being  charged 
for the PPI and it was described  on these as Payment Protection. So I think  shed have noticed 
these charges at some point. And if shed never asked for PPI, shed have wanted to know what  the 
charges were for. 
I therefore  think Barclays  got her agreement for the PPI.
Being an internet sale, I think its reasonable  to say that Mrs C would have worked through  the 
application in her own time,  without any advice from Barclays. So it wasnt an advised sale and it 
was for Mrs C to decide  for herself whether or not she wanted PPI. Barclays duty was to provide 
clear enough information  for her to make  an informed choice.
After our adjudicator  sent out his initial  view saying he didnt think this was a complaint we would 
uphold, the company representing Mrs C said she had some medical  conditions. The adjudicator 
thought these  two issues might not be claimable under the policy  rules and that this wouldnt have 
been clear  to Mrs C. 
Ref: DRN04804933However, I can also see weve asked several times for some more evidence about  Mrs Cs health and 
the two conditions  that were belatedly  mentioned. And I think thats an entirely  reasonable request, 
given some of the inconsistencies  weve got in this case. To date, we havent  seen any medical  
records or been given enough confirmation about these matters. 
I would also like to make  it clear that I certainly dont want to suggest these  matters wouldnt  have 
been important to Mrs C, but there is very little evidence to show when these conditions existed and 
whether they are actually relevant to the point of sale, in 2008, when Mrs C took out her PPI policy.
In considering all other aspects of the case, I think Mrs C was eligible for the cover which, at 79p per 
£100 of the outstanding credit card balance, appears to have been an affordable charge. Also,  Mrs C 
didnt appear to have much sick pay with her job.
The PPI, on the other hand, would have covered  unemployment, as well as other forms of disability or 
sickness and it could have  reduced her credit  card balance by 10% a month for up to a year in the 
event of a successful claim. I therefore currently think the policy was of use to Mrs C. I think thats 
probably why she bought it.
So even if I accept Barclays could have been clearer in certain aspects, I dont think  Mrs C would  
have done anything differently. I think she would have still bought the cover. I think the evidence quite 
strongly shows she wanted some protection and I dont think the medical issues mentioned  would 
have changed her overall desire to have it. However,  if Mrs C would is able to provide any medical 
evidence showing when these conditions existed and medical responses that were  necessary, Ill be 
happy to consider that evidence.
 
In the meantime, I dont currently think Barclays has to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mrs C. Its 
already paid back  some of the cost of the PPI to her because  when the policy was sold it expected to 
get a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium).  To put that right,  
Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI 
premium.  I think  that offer is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently think the PPI policy  was mis-sold. So Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has paid to Mrs C the commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium.  
I now invite  both parties to send in any further information they have by 3 February 2019.
Ref: DRN0480493