K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  mis-sold  him a Barclays Tech 
Pack account  add-on in 2015. He paid a monthly fee for the Tech Pack which  provided 
several benefits in return.
background
In November 2015 Mr P called Barclays  to enquire  about adding the Tech  Pack to his 
account. The Tech Packs  main features were mobile phone  insurance, gadget  insurance  
and a fee-free  overdraft of up to £200.
Mr P has complained that he wasnt given sufficient information at the time he agreed to the 
Tech Pack. He says that because he wasnt fully informed of the exclusions and limitations 
on the insurance policies, they were void from the moment he agreed to the account. And he 
says he owing to the lack of information, he wasnt able to make  an informed decision about 
whether to take, and keep, the Tech Pack.
Mr P has also explained  that he wasnt told that there was an age limit on the items that 
could be insured under the Tech Packs  mobile phone insurance  and gadget insurance. So 
he says his iPhone and MacBook  that he believed were covered, in fact were not, due to 
their age.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Barclays had got things wrong when it sold the Tech 
Pack to Mr P, so she didnt recommend that Barclays should pay him any compensation. 
Mr P didnt agree so he asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr Ps complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr Ps complaint a lot of thought,  I dont  think Barclays has acted unfairly. Ill 
explain why.
Both Barclays and Mr P agree that Barclays made  a recommendation when it sold the Tech 
Pack to Mr P. That means that Barclays had to make sure it was suitable  for him. Thats to 
say, it needed  to make sure that it took into account  relevant  information  about Mr P and his 
circumstances, to sell him a product that was right for him.
Mr P has provided some  information sourced from the internet, which I note outlines  what  
Barclays shouldve done during the sale. The information hes provided highlights  that 
businesses should  do things such as checking their customer is eligible for the account, 
Ref: DRN07044362checking the account is suitable for them,  and sending  them  an annual summary of 
eligibility, so they can check their ongoing needs.
Mr P initiated the sale of the Tech Pack by calling Barclays.  He initially  spoke to an advisor 
with some general enquiries, and his call was then transferred to a second advisor. The 
second advisor explained the features of the Tech Pack in more  detail,  and asked a number  
of questions to assess the suitability of the account  against Mr Ps circumstances. 
Ive managed to listen to recordings  of both calls. To summarise, the calls included  several  
pieces of information from Barclays, which I note Mr P engaged with, and asked questions 
about. 
In the first call, the advisor explains  to Mr P that the mobile phone  insurance and gadget  
insurance are two separate policies. He goes on to explain  that the combined gadget cover 
limit of £1500 doesnt include the value of a registered mobile  phone   as that would be 
insured separately.
Of particular relevance in the second  call is the point at which  the adviser tells Mr P that 
gadgets need to be less than 2 years  old at the point  of registration, and have a combined 
value of less than £1500.  Mr P tells the advisor his laptop is just over a year old.
The advisor then goes on to explain the mobile  phone insurance, including the excesses 
payable and the claim limits. Mr P explains that hes got an iPhone 6. At this stage theres no 
mention of an age limit applicable to mobile  phones.
The call continues with some further  information about the cover provided with both policies, 
at which  point Mr P opts to receive  the remaining information in the post.  The adviser gives 
him a phone number  to call to register  his items,  which  by his response, it seems as though 
Mr P made note of. 
The call ends by Mr P clarifying that his bank account with added  Tech  Pack will cover  his 
iPhone 6, and his laptop, and will cost £9.50  per month. The advisor confirms Mr P is right,  
and the call ends.
Having thought carefully about everything  Mr P has said, and the phone  calls Ive listened to, 
I think Barclays did what it needed to do. The call was thorough and gave Mr P information 
on the cover  provided  and the steps he needed  to take to make use of it. The advisor  also 
made sure Mr P had a need  for the insurance  policies, and would be able to claim if he 
needed to. Although Mr P says he wasnt told about  the age limit on the mobile phone  
insurance policy, this was only applicable to the gadget insurance policy.  I havent  heard at 
any point during the calls  nor have I seen in the policy  documents   that mobile phones 
had to be newer than two years old in order to benefit from the accounts insurance cover.
Ive seen that Mr P found all of the information  confusing. And I understand why; after all, the 
mobile phone insurance  and gadget  insurance differ, even though  theyre both provided by 
the same  account.  But having listened  to the calls, it doesnt appear that Mr P didnt 
understand what he was signing  up for, nor that there were any doubts his items  would  be 
covered. Ive also seen  that he went on to register his laptop  and mobile  phone  two days 
after signing  up for the account.  I appreciate  Mr P cant remember doing this, but Im 
satisfied that he most  likely did, given the reason he took the account in the first place.
Ref: DRN07044363During a phone call with Mr P he told me that he needed to make  a claim for a cracked  
screen on his phone.  He says he went to a Barclays branch to do this, and he was told at 
that time that he wasnt covered due to the age of his phone.
Mr P couldnt remember much detail about this visit to the branch, including  which of 
Barclays branches he visited. But even  so, I think its unlikely a claim couldve been  made  in 
a Barclays branch. So I find it unlikely that the staff in a branch  wouldve discussed the 
merits of a potential  claim  it in much detail  with Mr P. That said,  even if the branch staff did 
have the ability to assess a claim, the accounts  mobile phone  insurance didnt have a 
handset age limit. So a claim wouldnt  have  been  declined for that reason.
I acknowledge that Mr P didnt hold the Tech Pack for long  and he says he removed it 
when he found  out his phone wasnt covered.  But for the reasons Ive explained,  I think  this 
was a misunderstanding, rather than the result of something Barclays  did wrong.
I know that Mr P feels strongly  about  his complaint, but having thought carefully  about  
everything he and Barclays have said, Im afraid I dont think Barclays treated him unfairly. 
Whilst I appreciate he now says he wasnt given key information  that wouldve enabled him 
to decide whether to keep the account, from what Ive heard, he was. 
I do understand that Mr P might not have received the postal information that he was meant  
to receive after the phone call with Barclays. But even so, I think Barclays did enough during 
its phone  calls to recommend a suitable  account and to give Mr P sufficient information  
about it. And I also think Mr P had sufficient means and knowledge  such  as the phone 
number he was given   to chase up the missing information that he says he didnt receive, if 
he wanted to.
So I dont  think Barclays mis-sold the Tech Pack to Mr P, and I dont think it owes him any 
compensation.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0704436