K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that he was mis-sold  a Select  Added Value Account (SAVA) by Lloyds Bank  
PLC (Lloyds). He also complains that Lloyds  applied unfair  charges and interest to his 
account when  he went overdrawn, and that it shouldnt have agreed  to give him an overdraft 
in the first place.
background
Mr N held a bank account with Lloyds from 2001.  His first account  did not have a fee.
He took out the SAVA in September 2007  which incurred a monthly fee.
Mr N upgraded to a Platinum Added Value  Account (PAVA) in December  2007  which  also 
incurred a monthly fee.
Mr Ns account became overdrawn at various times  from November 2007 onwards  and he 
incurred charges and interest as a result.
Lloyds has said that the PAVA was mis-sold and has offered Mr N redress as a result. But 
Lloyds has said that the SAVA was not mis-sold  and that they did nothing  wrong  in applying 
the charges and interest when his account became overdrawn.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ns complaint  and decided  that Lloyds response was fair and 
reasonable. Mr N disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has upheld Mr Ns complaint about the PAVA  and offered the redress that this service 
would require, so I dont need  to look into that. 
But Mr N also says the SAVA was mis-sold. In my view,  I dont  agree  and Ill explain why.
Mr N was aware he could  have an account with no fee as hed had one without a fee for 
many years. So I think he chose to take out the SAVA based on Lloyds advice and 
information.
Lloyds advised  Mr N to take out the SAVA. So, Lloyds  needed  to provide Mr N with sufficient 
information about the SAVA to make  an informed choice. And in recommending  the SAVA, it 
also needed to take adequate steps  to ensure that the SAVA was a reasonable fit for Mr Ns 
circumstances.
The SAVA contained a range of benefits including AA breakdown cover,  mobile phone 
insurance and sentinel  card protection. I dont know what Lloyds said or what  information it 
gave Mr N but Lloyds  has recorded that during  the sale Mr N expressed an interest in the 
mobile phone insurance.  Mr N has said that he previously had mobile phone insurance so I 
can see why he would  have been interested in that and possibly other insurance protection 
as well. 
Ref: DRN02296622When he took out the SAVA it was on a much reduced introductory fee of £2 a month which  
increased to only £7 a month after 3 months.  So in my view Lloyds advice to him to take out 
the SAVA was not unsuitable  in the short term and he could have chosen at any time later 
whether to continue  with it. And there was no information that he didnt receive that would 
likely have put him off taking the SAVA.  The SAVA was replaced  by the PAVA  two months  
later, and of course Lloyds is offering to pay back the fees he paid thereafter with 
appropriate interest. So I dont think Mr N lost out by taking  out the SAVA.
Mr N has also complained  that he incurred overdraft fees between November 2007  and 
August 2011 when  the account closed and that these  were unfair and contributed  to his 
financial difficulties.
Ive looked carefully  at Mr Ns account  statements throughout  this period. Mr N seems to 
have regularly exceeded his overdraft for variable periods. It appears to me that Lloyds 
initially gave  Mr N a reasonable level of overdraft  limit in his circumstances and increased it 
on occasions to help reduce his overdraft charges. Mr N has said that simply carrying out a 
credit check  isnt enough and that Lloyds should have considered  his circumstances more 
thoroughly before giving  him an overdraft.  But he hasnt explained what he means by that, or 
what it was about  his circumstances that meant  it was irresponsible of Lloyds to give him an 
overdraft. It also appears to have tried to help him to manage his overdraft  needs  down by 
reducing his overdraft level in steps in the later years of the account.
His packaged bank  account fees were small in relation  to his level of spending, and were not 
the only outgoing which led him to exceed his agreed overdraft  limit (which  is when  high fees 
were charged) and his overdraft  charges and interest appear  to have been in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account.  So I cant see that Lloyds has done  anything wrong in 
its operation of Mr Ns account, and it would not be fair to ask Lloyds to pay back the 
charges and interest Mr N incurred  when he went over his overdraft limit.
So in my view the SAVA was not mis-sold to Mr N and Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in 
agreeing his overdraft,  or in applying the charges and interest  to his account.
I see that Mr N complained about  the service he received  from Lloyds in handling  his 
complaint. In response Lloyds made  a payment of £50 for his distress and inconvenience. 
This amount is in line with the payment this service would award foe what happened to Mr N 
so I think this was fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0229662