K821x#15complaint
Mr F, represented by a third party, complains  that Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading 
as Satsuma) lent money to him that he couldnt  afford to repay.
background
Based on the information provided, Mr F entered into four loans with Satsuma between 
July 2016 and November 2017.
Loan Amount Date Term Repaid
1 £500 16 July 2016 52 weeks 18 July 2017
2 £350 22 November 2016 52 weeks 21 November 2017
3 £140 28 July 2017 52 weeks 15 June 2018
4 £200 22 November 2017 52 weeks 20 June 2018
Mr F says that reasonable and proportionate  checks didnt take place before the loans were  
provided. He says that had these happened Satsuma would have  realised that he was 
reliant on short term loans  and couldnt afford the repayments  in a sustainable way. 
Satsuma says that when the loans were agreed there was no evidence that Mr F was in 
financial difficulties. It says it assessed  Mr Fs income and expenses and increased his 
expenses amount where necessary. It says based on the information it received the loan 
repayments were affordable.
Our adjudicator said that she hadnt seen  enough  to say that loans one to three shouldnt 
have been provided. However by the time loan four was provided she thought Mr Fs pattern 
of borrowing  suggested  he was persistently reliant on short term loans. She recommended 
that Mr F be refunded the interest  and charges applied to the fourth loan.
Satsuma didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said sustained or sequential  borrowing in 
itself wasnt irresponsible.  It reiterated  the checks it carried out before the loans were 
provided. 
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr F could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
Ref: DRN03719812the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that there was enough evidence to say that the first three loans 
shouldnt have been provided. I agree with this.
However by the time the fourth loan was provided I think  that Satsuma should have been 
concerned about  Mr Fs pattern of borrowing.  I note the comments  Satsuma has made about 
the checks it carried out and Mr Fs repayment history. However  Mr F had been taking out 
loans for 16 months  and had been  taking  out new loans before repaying  his previous loan. 
This suggests Mr F was struggling to manage his money and could have become 
persistently reliant  on short term borrowing. 
Because of this I dont think it reasonable that Satsuma considered the fourth loan 
sustainable affordable and so I uphold this complaint in regard to this loan.
Ref: DRN03719813my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan four. Provident Personal  
Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr F paid on loan four;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
the amount  of time Mr F was borrowing by loan four means any information  recorded 
about it is adverse.  So all entries  about loan four should  be removed from Mr Fs credit 
file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident Personal Credit  Limited  (trading as Satsuma)  
to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0371981