K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Miss W have  complained that Personal  Touch Financial Services  Ltd mis-sold 
them a joint life assurance policy.
background
In 2010, while in the process of completing  a mortgage for their first home, Mr M and Miss W 
contacted Personal Touch  to obtain a quote for insurance. After  carrying out a fact find, 
Personal Touch recommended that Mr M and Miss W take out a joint life assurance policy 
which would pay off their mortgage debt if either of them  were  to die during the 25-year term 
of the policy. It also recommended that Mr M take out an insurance policy to protect against 
accident, sickness and unemployment. Mr M and Miss W agreed to the recommendations. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr M and Miss W complained  that they hadnt received  any policy 
documents even  though premium payments had already  been  taken from their account.
In 2011, Personal Touch  accepted it had been  at fault. It noted  that Mr M and Miss W had 
since received the documents. It offered to refund  the premiums paid for the first two months 
on both policies during which time Mr M and Miss W were without policy documentation and 
to add a further  amount for distress and inconvenience to bring the total compensation to 
£250. Mr M and Miss W accepted this offer.
In 2018, Mr M and Miss W had cause  to check the life assurance policy document.  They 
understood that pre-existing conditions were not covered. They complained  to Personal 
Touch that because Mr M suffered from epilepsy this meant  the policy was unsuitable.
Personal Touch didnt  uphold  the complaint. It said it would  have expected Mr M and Miss W 
to have closely examined the policy  documents  when  these were  provided following their 
earlier complaint. It further said that when Mr M and Miss W accepted the compensation in 
2011, they signed a statement  absolving Personal  Touch of liability  in respect of any other 
issue relating to the sale of the policies.
Mr M and Miss W were unhappy at Personal  Touchs response and referred their 
complaint to us.
While the complaint was under investigation, Personal Touch pointed  out that the policy  
didnt exclude  cover for Mr Ms epilepsy.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to not uphold  this complaint. My
findings were as follows:
The basis of the complaint is that Mr M and Miss W were sold a policy  which doesnt 
cover Mr Ms epilepsy. However, I have seen nothing to show that the policy doesnt 
provide cover for this. Mr M and Miss W havent explained why they think cover  is 
excluded. The investigator referred to a clause excluding cover for conditions  about 
which medical advice  had been  sought  in the twelve months before the policy  started 
but I can see no such clause and, having asked  the investigator about it, I conclude 
that the investigator made a mistake.
Ref: DRN00124272The evidence shows that Mr M disclosed his epilepsy in the application form and the 
insurer agreed to offer cover in full knowledge  of this. There is no exclusion noted  for 
epilepsy on the policy schedule and the policy has no exclusion relating  to pre-existing 
conditions. Im satisfied that Mr M had full cover under the policy  and would not have 
been prevented  from making a claim which related to his epilepsy.
Im satisfied that the policy  was a suitable  recommendation in all other respects. This 
being the case, I see no reasonable  grounds for concluding that the policy was mis-sold.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr M and Miss W didnt  accept my provisional  decision. They  said they didnt recall receiving 
a letter  from Personal  Touchs adviser  outlining his recommendation  for the joint life 
assurance policy and the exclusions which would apply. They  reiterated  that they shouldnt 
have been sold a policy which excluded cover for Mr Ms epilepsy.
Personal Touch didnt  respond to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  the joint life assurance  policy  does not exclude 
cover for Mr Ms epilepsy or for any other pre-existing condition. The complaint made  by 
Mr M and Miss W is therefore groundless. They believed  that cover  for Mr Ms epilepsy was 
excluded but they were  wrong. I therefore see no reasonable grounds for concluding  that 
this policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0012427