K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr and Mrs G 
say Santander  UK plc, Abbey National at the time, mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy 
was mis-sold.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 March 2019, which is attached  and forms part of this 
decision, setting  out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party responded with 
any new evidence or comments for me to consider. So based  on my previous findings, and 
in the absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold  so Santander UK plc doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But as stated in my provisional decision,  Santander  UK plc has to pay back to Mr and Mrs G 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy. Mr and Mrs G say 
Santander UK plc, Abbey National at the time,  mis-sold  them  the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN01673152Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs G case.
Mr and Mrs G have provided a lot of detail in support of this complaint.  So I dont doubt the strength of 
feeling. Ive read and considered everything theyve said. However, it may be helpful to explain  that 
the purpose of my decision  isnt to address every point thats been made   its only to provide my 
conclusions and reasons  for them. So while Id like to reassure them that Ive thought carefully about 
everything theyve said throughout this complaint, my findings will be expressed in considerably less 
detail.
Based on what Ive seen so far I currently dont  think  the policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs G say the PPI was taken out in 2002, when  they bought a property together,  and that the 
PPI policy  taken out in 2000 was a separate policy  which was taken out on a different mortgage. But 
Santander says its records show the PPI was taken out in 2000, and was amended when  Mr and Mrs 
G took out their mortgage  together in 2002 to include  Mr G. 
Santander has provided a copy of a PPI schedule which includes the policy  number and the start date 
of the PPI  and this supports what its said. The PPI was a standalone product, which  couldve been 
used to cover any mortgage borrowing. So looking at all the evidence available  I think  the policy  was 
first sold in 2000 in Mrs Gs name only. The policy schedule also shows this policy initially provided 
unemployment cover  only.
Unfortunately due to the length of time that passed neither party has been able to provide any 
documents from the sale of the policy in 2000. The only document Ive seen from around this time is 
the PPI schedule.  In such cases, where theres little or no evidence from the point of sale, I have to 
consider what  both parties tell me in order to come  to a decision on what I think is more likely  to have 
happened.
Mrs G says that she was pressured into taking out the PPI to the extent that she thought  she had to 
have the PPI in order to get the mortgage. But Mrs G hasnt given me a lot of information about what 
happened at the time, and Ive not seen  any evidence  to support  what shes said.  Ive also considered 
that this policy was sold around  19 years  ago  which is something I have to keep in mind.
Santander says it wouldve  made  it clear that the PPI was optional and that it wouldve only added the 
PPI with Mrs Gs consent. Ive seen  that only unemployment cover was taken  out at this time,  this 
suggests that there  was some discussion about PPI where Mrs G decided  not to take out the full 
cover but only to take out the unemployment element.
So without any stronger evidence  to the contrary, I cant fairly and reasonably  uphold the complaint on 
this point - and I think its more likely than not that Santander made  it clear  the PPI was optional  and 
Mrs G chose to take it out, for unemployment only,  knowing it was something she didnt have to have.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs G so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example she wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and she seems to have  had a need for 
the cover.
Mrs G says that in 2000 she was entitled to some sick pay and had some savings which  she couldve 
used to cover her repayments. But Mrs Gs policy covered  unemployment only - which, upon a 
successful claim,  wouldve paid out for up to 12 months and on top of her savings. So these  funds  
wouldve been  free to use for other expenses. And as in 2000  the mortgage was taken  out in her 
name only, so she was solely responsible for the repayments. So I think having the PPI in place 
wouldve provided  her with some additional financial  security.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  
But it seems  like it would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was 
Ref: DRN01673153affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking  out the 
cover.
Ive also considered what happened  when Mr and Mrs G took out a new mortgage with Santander on 
their joint property. Ive seen  a copy  of the mortgage application which was completed and signed by 
Mr and Mrs G in 2002. In this the section for PPI has been left blank. Ive also seen a copy of their 
mortgage offer, which doesnt include  any information to suggest PPI was taken  out here. Santander 
says that after the mortgage had been arranged, the PPI policy was amended  to include Mr G and to 
increase the monthly  benefit amount.
Mr and Mrs G dispute this, and say they were out of the country at the time.  However, this 
amendment was made by the insurers of the policy - so if Mr and Mrs G dispute that this amendment 
should have been made, they should contact the insurers  of the policy directly.
This means  Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G. But 
Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G because:
Santander got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have  told Mr and Mrs G about that. Because Santander  didnt tell Mr and Mrs G, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
Santander has to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should also pay back to Mr and Mrs G any extra  interest Mr 
and Mrs G paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs G the extra they paid each month because  the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay Mr and Mrs 
G 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs G can claim back  the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my provisional  decision
I currently dont think the PPI policy  was mis-sold  so I dont intend to tell Santander UK plc to pay all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But I do intend to tell Santander UK plc c to pay to Mr and Mrs G any commission and profit  share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium   as outlined above. 
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 28 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0167315