K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them a regular premium mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In December 1998, Mr and Mrs S purchased a PPI policy when they took out a mortgage 
with Lloyds. The policy provided cover for Mrs S only, in the event  she wasnt  working 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  The policy cost £37.50 each  month and in 
the event of a successful  claim it wouldve  paid a monthly benefit to cover their mortgage  
repayments for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs S case. Ive looked  at the available  information  with care and have decided not 
to uphold the complaint and Ive explained  my reasons below.
 
When Mr and Mrs S purchased the PPI policy, they completed a separate  PPI application 
form. And I can see that they chose the level of cover and amount of cover  they wanted  
together with how the policy benefit should be split between Mr S and Mrs S. They  signed  
this application  form in December 1998.
Ive also seen a copy of the signed direct debit  mandate that they completed to set up 
payment for the PPI separately from the mortgage.  And from what  I know about  Lloyds  
mortgage sales at this time, the mortgage  offer paperwork says that PPI is optional; it 
explains that customers dont need  to take out any insurance with the bank.
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage application form. Theres  a section relating to PPI and 
applicants are asked  whether  they are interested  in PPI and then presented  with two equally 
prominent choices;  Yes and No. In this case, I note the Yes option has been ticked and 
then the mortgage application  form has been  signed.
So taking all these things  into account, Im satisfied that PPI was separate from the 
mortgage and taking it wasnt a condition of being granted  the mortgage. And the paperwork 
suggests that Mr and Mrs S chose  to purchase the policy and agreed to pay for it  so I think  
that they knew, or ought reasonably to have known  that the PPI policy was optional.
Lloyds recommended the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs S. But from what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time of the sale, I think the policy was suitable for them.
I say this because  Mrs S was eligible for the policy  she met the policy  rules about  her age, 
where she was living  and her employment  status.  And from the information shes given  us, I 
dont think she wouldve been caught  by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in 
these types of policies  she told us she was in good health and she was employed at the 
Ref: DRN06683392time they bought the policy. So I think she wouldve been able to make a successful claim on 
the policy if shed  needed to.
Mrs S was working at the time and she says she had some  occupational benefits from her 
employer if she was off work sick. But this doesnt  automatically mean  that the policy  was 
unsuitable. This is because if she were  unable to work, the PPI was intended  to remove  the 
additional pressure  of maintaining mortgage repayments, at what  would likely be a difficult  
time.
Mr and Mrs S say they couldve relied upon  their family for help. Whilst I understand the 
point they seek  to make, there  could be no guarantee  that their familys financial 
circumstances wouldve allowed them to help at some  unknown point in the future.
Also, the mortgage was for a number of years and the PPI wouldve helped  to pay the 
monthly mortgage costs  for up to 12 months  for each successful claim  and on top of any 
other cover she had. So I dont think Mrs S existing work benefits  wouldve made  the PPI 
unsuitable.
So taking everything into account, I think the PPI was suitable  for them.
Lloyds needed  to properly explain the PPIs costs, benefits, exclusions and limitations.  It 
hasnt told us anything  that shows what was actually  said to Mr and Mrs S about  this. So I 
cant say its likely Lloyds did give them everything they needed to know before deciding  to 
take PPI.
But did Mr and Mrs S lose out as a result  - would they have taken the PPI if Lloyds had 
properly told them about it?
Ive explained  why I think the PPI was suitable. Given their circumstances at the time I think 
they wouldve  thought the PPI gave important cover  to protect the repayments  on their 
home. And that the costs  and benefits  were  competitive and gave peace of mind.  So I dont 
think they lost out because  I think  they wouldve taken the policy  if theyd been given enough 
proper information  about it. And as the policy was a regular monthly premium policy,  if Mr 
and Mrs S decided that the cost was unaffordable,  or that they no longer wanted the PPI, 
they couldve cancelled  it without penalty.  
I realise that this will be a disappointment  for Mr and Mrs S, but I do not think  that the policy 
was mis-sold to them. It follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0668339