K820x#14complaint
The trustees are unhappy that its claim for damage  to the propertys  roof under its 
commercial insurance policy has been declined by Allianz Insurance Plc.
background
Mr D is representing the trustees on behalf  of a trust, I will call the trust H. For ease my 
reference to things the trustees have said or done includes their representatives comments. 
In late 2016 a member  of the public noticed some roof tiles had moved on Hs property. 
In April 2017, the trustees had the matter  investigated by a local architect and structural  
engineer. The engineers  report  said the apparent reason for movement in the roof structure 
was due to the lack of chevron bracing but also said it wasnt  evident  when the damage 
occurred or whether it was a one-off wind induced event or a gradual  ongoing  movement. 
The engineer felt the property was unsafe and should be taken out of use.
In May 2017  the trustees made a claim on its commercial insurance policy. 
Allianz has declined  the claim because damage to the property that can be attributed  to a 
construction defect,  or faulty design  or materials, isn't covered.
It also said it wasn't told about the damage  until some months after it was discovered. This
prejudiced the claim and it's therefore  not covered under the policy terms.
The trustees have  said there has been a dispute with Allianz about which building  
regulations were in place  at the time of the property construction. It says the property was 
properly constructed  and inspected and certified as being correctly completed by the building 
regulations authority. The trustees say there were no problems or issues  until a sudden  
event happened  probably due to storms at the end of 2016. 
Allianz says it has considered this, but it doesnt  believe  the wind speeds were significant  to 
cause the type of damage the property has sustained. It said there were no loss of tiles, 
despite the distortion to it, which is what it would usually expect to see where a one-off storm 
event occurred. It says that the evidence supports that the lack of bracing meant that all 
weather events would  have  had a gradual bearing  on the movement of the wall/roof,  as 
opposed to one sudden movement due to a storm. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He felt the terms that Allianz  relied on to decline 
the claim were fair. He felt on the evidence presented that it looked like the property did have 
a construction  flaw. But he also said, even  if the property didnt have a defective roof, he 
didnt feel the trustees  had shown enough  evidence that the damage  was caused by an 
insured event. And given that five months  had passed  from when it was thought  the storm 
had happened, he felt Allianzs position  was prejudiced. As it wasnt given the opportunity  to 
inspect the damage  at the time it occurred and its likely to have worsened  over time given 
the cause of the damage appears to be lack of bracing.
The trustees didnt  agree, they say the structural engineer they used to commission their 
report made an error by applying the wrong code of practice for when the property was built.  
It applied BS5268 Part 3 -structural use of timber - code of practice for trussed rafter roofs. It 
sets out the minimum  requirements for roof bracing in trussed roofs  and they say it is evident  
that this has not been adhered to within the roof of the property so they feel this report 
should be ignored. 
Ref: DRN00976522The trustees say the delay in reporting the issue to the insurer was due to the lack of 
information. They say they were not aware  of the facts of the damage to start making a claim 
until they received  advice  from the structural engineer. 
As the trustees didnt agree with our investigator,  they have asked for a final decision.  So, 
the complaint  has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint,  for largely  the same  reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Ive looked at the photographs provided,  there is no doubt damage has occurred.  And its 
accepted the roof/wall have moved.
But whats  in dispute here, is whether the damage, was caused by an event that the policy  
would cover.
Allianz said it considered  the claim under the property damage section of the policy. Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions of the policy and on page 10 under  the exemptions  
section, it says:
We will not indemnify You in respect  of
(1) Damage caused  by or consisting of
(a) an existing or hidden defect in the property
(b) gradual deterioration or wear and tear
(c) ..
(d) faulty design of the Property Insured or faulty materials  used in its 
construction
(e) faulty workmanship, operating error or omission  by You or any Employee
I can see that there has been an ongoing  dispute as to what  building  regulations were in 
force at the time the property was constructed. I understand the building  control file has been 
destroyed so Ive only seen an email from the building control  office dated 9 May 2017 giving 
basic information of when the application  was approved  6 December 1985, commenced  on 
13 December 1985 and completed on 30 January 1990.
The structural engineer  report has relied  on building control BS5268 part 3 as being the 
relevant code of practice at the time of the build. The trustees believe this to be incorrect  and 
that CPI 12 Part 3 was the relevant code.  I can see the CPI 12 Part 3 was withdrawn and 
replaced in March 1985 with BS5268.  So, given  the limited information I can only consider 
what I think is more likely  and based  on what Ive seen, I dont think  its unreasonable  that 
the structural engineer  relied on the latter code of practice and that Allianz have also taken 
this into account.  From the information available, I think its fair for Allianz to have declined  
the claim under the exceptions in the policy.
Ref: DRN00976523The trustees have  also said they think the damage  to the property was due to storms in late 
2016. However, the claim wasnt made  to the insurer  until May 2017. The trustees say it was 
reported late due to lack of information. 
Ive taken everything the trustees have told us into consideration. But ultimately
they didnt report  the damage to their Insurer until at least  five months after the damage first 
came to their attention.  I understand the reasons theyve given for this. But the policy 
conditions say: 
You will:
(a) tell Us immediately of any event or occurrence  which may result  in a claim,
(b) 
(c) provide Us with all information and help We require in respect  of the claim and where 
requested by Us, and at Your  expense,  a written claim containing as much  information  as 
possible of the loss, destruction, damage, accident  or injury, including  the amount of the 
claim, within
(i) 30 days of Your becoming aware  of the event or occurrence
Ive seen extracts of minutes from the trust meetings. At the meeting held on 
21 January 2017  its notes  the concern about the roof and that they need  a structural  
engineer to look at it. The onus is upon  the policyholders to notify the insurer  of an event or 
occurrence which may result in a claim.  This shouldve been done in January 2017. I do 
think this has prejudiced Allianzs  position. Because further damage couldve occurred 
during those five months, therefore,  incurring  more cost to the Insurer. And it also makes it 
difficult for the exact cause of the damage  to be identified.  I dont think  Allianz have wrongly  
applied the policy term and condition.
There is no expert evidence that a storm caused  the damage. From  what Ive seen the 
evidence supports that the roof, whether poorly  constructed or not, was subject to damage 
from the elements  over time. Gradual damage  is also exempt from the policy.  Im therefore 
not persuaded that a storm was the dominant cause of the damage.  Based on everything 
Ive seen I dont  think Allianz have been  unfair in declining the claim and I wont be asking it 
to anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the trustees to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 June  2020.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0097652