K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Car Time Motor Company UK Limited (CTM) mis-sold her a 
mechanical breakdown  warranty.
background
Mrs C purchased a car from CTM on 30 November 2018, and was also sold a motor  
warranty alongside it which covers  her car components against  mechanical failure.  She says 
she was made to believe that the warranty was free, and that it wasnt  until a couple of days  
later that she realised she had actually  paid for it. 
Mrs C complained as she says she did not consent  to this. She says she was given the 
finance agreement  to sign, but that CTM made  her resign it as they said they had forgotten  
to add the warranty. Mrs C acknowledges that she signed the paperwork agreeing to the 
warranty, but says that she had been distracted by the sales person so she did not check  the 
documents properly.  
CTM disagreed that the warranty had been  mis-sold. They  maintained that Mrs C agreed to 
it which was why it was added to the agreement,  and that the costs were  clearly explained to 
her. But in any event,  they agreed to a partial  refund of her service plan and also offered a 
service free of charge  as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs C was unhappy  with this resolution, as 
she wanted a full refund as well as a three-year warranty for free. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Cs complaint. He was satisfied it was made clear that 
there was going  to be a charge for the warranty, and that there  was nothing to suggest that it 
was a free product.  As Mrs C had signed  a number of documents that included  the cost of 
the warranty, he thought it was likely she was aware  of how much  it cost and that it wasnt 
free. Mrs C disagreed, so the matter  has been passed to me to determine. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
In addition to the warranty,  I understand Mrs C has raised concerns about  issues relating to 
the quality of her car, which is being  dealt  with under a separate complaint  reference. So this 
decision will be solely  concerned with the matter of whether  her warranty  was mis-sold.
There is little evidence  available  from the point of sale other than the finance agreement.  
And given  that I was not present at the time,  I have to base my decision on what  I consider 
to be most likely in the circumstances. Having considered the finance  agreement,  I can see 
that it references the warranty in a number of places and sets out how much it will cost. 
Mrs C has also signed these pages a number of times, and it was her responsibility  to 
ensure she had checked what  she was signing and that she was happy with it. 
I appreciate she says she was distracted by the salesperson and was told the warranty was 
free. But there is very little evidence available  to corroborate this. So based on what Ive 
seen, I consider it more  likely than not that Mrs C was aware that the warranty  was a 
chargeable product. And given that the costs are set out in the documentation, and that she 
has signed agreeing to the warranty, Im unable  to conclude that it was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN01398392I note that in any event,  CMT have offered Mrs C a partial refund of £500 for her servicing 
plan, as well as a complimentary service, as a gesture of goodwill. And given that I do not 
consider there to be enough evidence to suggest  the warranty  was mis-sold, I consider this 
to be a fair and reasonable  compromise if Mrs C no longer wants  the product.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019. 
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0139839