K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander  UK Plc seeks  to go back on an agreement to 
permanently change the repayment basis of their mortgage from capital repayment to 
interest-only.
background
In 2007 Mr and Mrs C took out a capital repayment mortgage with Santander. They say that 
in 2013 Santander changed the repayments to interest-only owing to a change  in their 
financial circumstances. Santander  continued  on interest-only when they took a new 
interest-rate product in 2017. Santander  now says this was an error and wants  the mortgage 
to revert to capital repayment.
On their complaint  to Santander it said it had written  to them on 27 April 2018 saying that in 
June 2013, they asked  it to make a temporary  amendment to their mortgage. It had changed 
the repayment method from capital and interest  to interest-only to help them during a time of 
financial difficulty. This arrangement should have  ended in December  2014.  However  owing 
to an error  that didnt  happen. 
Santander acknowledged that Mr and Mrs C felt the change to interest-only had been 
permanent and not a concession. It said it would  like to discuss the matter further with them. 
It understood from a conversation with them on 1 May 2018 that they wanted to remain  on 
interest-only owing to their personal circumstances. They had confirmed they had a plan in 
place to repay the mortgage at the end of the term. Santander asked them  to provide details 
of this on a form provided.
Mr and Mrs C werent  happy about  this and made  a complaint to this service, but our 
adjudicator didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that when Mr and Mrs C had financial 
difficulties in 2013 Santander  had agreed  to temporarily allow  them to move to interest-only 
as a concession.  The interest-only period had been extended several times at their request 
as they were in financial difficulties.  They had complained in October 2013 saying they 
thought it was a permanent  change, but Santander had responded that it was a temporary 
concession. 
The adjudicator said that for an interest-only  mortgage, the lenders assessment included  
understanding the borrowers plans to repay  the capital  at the end of the term. This was 
perhaps the reason why Santander wanted  them to confirm their plans for repayment. But 
aside from this, it was good practice  to make sure consumers  were  aware of the need to find 
the outstanding capital  by the end of the term, when they still had the chance to make 
suitable plans.
The adjudicator said Mr and Mrs C seemed to have  their repayment  plans well in hand, so 
they might  wish to share these plans with Santander by completing the forms it had sent to 
them. Assuming their plans appeared reasonable, it seemed Santander  may agree to the 
change permanently. It wasnt  unreasonable for Santander to want to know  their plans.
Mr and Mrs C said the adjudicator was wrong because  Santander had lied about not 
changing the mortgage permanently to interest-only. Santander had lied about everything  
and if it were honest the adjudicator would  reach  a very different conclusion. 
Ref: DRN02483282They said Santander  had not only changed their mortgage to interest-only but when the 
product expired it agreed another. Mr and Mrs C suspected that Santander didnt like the fact 
that it wasnt earning enough  interest on their mortgage, and the fact that they were  reducing 
it significantly was also not in Santanders financial interest. It had been  very economical 
with the truth. It didnt tell them the change was ever temporary. It had lied about  everything. 
The adjudicator had reached  a conclusion based  on lies.
Mr and Mrs C had received paperwork which they were being forced to sign,  when there was 
no reason for them to do so. They said the adjudicator was very much mistaken in her 
findings because  she hadnt been  furnished with the whole truth.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santanders position is set out in its letter to Mr and Mrs C dated 27 April 2018  which  says:
In June  2013  you asked  us to make a temporary amendment to your mortgage account. We 
changed the method of repayment from capital and interest to interest only to help you 
during a time of financial difficulty. This arrangement should have ended in December  2014  
however due to an error this didnt happen. Were  sorry  weve not been in touch sooner and 
for any confusion caused.
Wed like to speak to you about your options  to ensure you have a plan in place for repaying 
your mortgage. Whilst your mortgage remains on interest only, youre not paying off any of 
the capital balance (the money  youve  borrowed) within your monthly payments.
Its important that you have a plan for repayment  as its your responsibility  to repay the 
outstanding balance when your mortgage matures.
If you want to remain  on interest only, please complete and return the form enclosed  with 
evidence of your repayment  plan. Once weve received your form, well be in contact to 
discuss further. Your current  financial circumstances  will then be assessed  to see whether 
you meet  the requirements for remaining  on interest-only permanently.
In other  words, Santander is not at present insisting  that Mr and Mrs C revert to capital 
repayment. However it does wish to review  whether  interest-only remains appropriate.  
Mr and Mrs C say its not entitled to do this because it never told them the change was 
temporary.
After the time which has elapsed, Santander  no longer has the recording of the phone  
conversation on 1 May 2013. Therefore Ive considered Santanders letter  of 20 November 
2013 in which it says:
I have listened to the call you had with one of my colleagues on the 1 May 2013 when the 
interest-only concession  was agreed. The request for an interest-only concession  from you 
was due to Mr C having a reduced income. You advised on the call that Mr C was currently  
in a temporary position within the school and a permanent  internal vacancy had become 
available. You advised  Mr C had been encouraged  to apply for this position and you were 
confident he would get the role. You advised if Mr C did get this role he may not start until 
January meaning  you would need longer than a six month interest-only concession.
Ref: DRN02483283My colleague discussed  with you in more detail the increase in income  Mr C would be 
receiving and you advised that ideally  for piece of mind and to get things up and running 
twelve months on an interest-only concession would be a good amount of time.  The adviser 
also stated at the beginning of the call that this was not a long-term option and was not 
indefinite. They also discussed with you the actions you would take if in twelve  months time 
Mr C had not got an increased  income.  At this point you advised  that although it was 
something you had not considered at this time and not really wanting to consider,  you would 
look at selling the property.
This account of the call indicates that Mr and Mrs C knew their mortgage wasnt permanently  
transferred to interest-only.  They  didnt reply saying Santander was lying.
Furthermore, Mr and Mrs C have  acknowledged in their email of 11 January 2019 to the 
adjudicator: In the first instance they did say it was temporary.
On this evidence  I believe that when the mortgage was first switched from repayment to 
interest-only, this was a temporary concession owing to Mr and Mrs Cs financial problems, 
and that they knew  that. What happened  after that was that Santander  mistakenly renewed 
their mortgage product  on interest-only.  Im not persuaded that Santander  never told 
Mr and Mrs C that the change was temporary and that it is now lying.
As stated in its letter dated 27 April 2018 Santander is not at present insisting that 
Mr and Mrs C revert to capital  repayment. However  it does clearly wish to review  whether 
interest-only remains appropriate and wants to know Mr and Mrs Cs plans for repaying the 
mortgage at the end of the term. I agree with the adjudicator that this is reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 June 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0248328