K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1991 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs M say Yorkshire  Building Society  (YBS) mis-sold  them  the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
The PPI covered Mr M only so I have  mainly considered his circumstances  at the time.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
YBS had to make  Mr and Mrs M aware the PPI was optional  and gain their consent before 
adding it to their mortgage.  I cant be certain what was said when Mr and Mrs M applied  for 
their mortgage and PPI, but YBS has provided a copy  of the available  paperwork.  Mr M 
completed and signed  an application  form for the PPI separately to applying for the 
mortgage. So I think Mr and Mrs M would have been  aware it wasnt part of their mortgage 
and that they had a choice in taking it. I also think they chose  to take it out, although I can 
understand why they may not remember this.
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs M got the information they needed to decide 
if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. Mr and Mrs M have told us that Mr M was self-employed. But the policy didnt make it 
any more difficult for self-employed people to make  a claim.  And based  on what  Ive seen of 
Mr Ms circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was affected  by any of the remaining 
exclusions to, or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for Mr and Mrs M if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  YBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN05804332Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said - but these points dont change my 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest on each payment  (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0580433