K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc made mistakes when dealing with his loan and 
credit card repayments.
background 
Mr S had several accounts  with HSBC which included a current  account  with an overdraft, a 
credit card and a personal loan. Mr S defaulted  on his credit  card in 2016.
 
In 2018 Mr S was in arrears with his loan and experiencing financial difficulties. Mr S said he 
contacted HSBC to change  the date for his loan repayment which they agreed.  The following 
month Mr S said he rang HSBC but was told the payment date hadnt been moved. 
Mr S complained to HSBC who apologised and paid £70 compensation. 
But HSBC  then made an error setting up the new loan repayment and over the next two 
months, Mr Ss payment was taken twice  per month. Mr S said this meant he went over the 
overdraft limit on his current account.  So, Mr S contacted HSBC.  He told them  to keep the 
extra loan payments because he was in arrears and wanted to avoid defaulting. And HSBC  
agreed not to charge him for going over his overdraft.  
Because of his financial difficulties, HSBC then put a 60 day hold on his accounts  to allow  
him to pay off the unarranged part of his overdraft. Over the next few months Mr S paid this 
off and then asked HSBC to remove  the holds. A few weeks  later, Mr S tried to make a 
payment towards  his credit card but couldnt because HSBC  had passed  the account  to a 
debt collection company. Mr S said this happened because HSBC  didnt remove  the hold on 
his credit card account as hed requested. Mr S complained to HSBC who told him they were  
legally allowed to pass on debt.
Mr S remained unhappy,  so he brought his concerns to us. He also complained that HSBC  
were still taking payments  for his debt even though  theyd passed it to a debt collection 
company. Mr S wanted  HSBC to amend his credit  report, pay off his debt and compensate 
him for his time and the upset caused  by selling off his debt. Mr S also explained he was 
experiencing health problems at the time. 
Our investigator found that HSBC had made  mistakes in relation to the loan payments. 
They thought the £70 paid was reasonable and suggested a further £100 compensation for 
mistakenly taking extra  payments.  They  didnt  think HSBC  had done  anything wrong in 
relation to Mr Ss credit card debt. HSBC  accepted  this view.  But Mr S remained unhappy 
and so his complaint has been passed to me to consider.
Im aware Mr S has made other complaints  about  the impact  of mis-sold PPI and related 
compensation payments but these  are being  dealt  with separately and so I wont be 
commenting on them here.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S clearly  feels  very strongly about whats happened. Hes sent in a lot of evidence  and 
information about his financial difficulties and his overall health. I want  to assure Mr S Ive 
Ref: DRN01394762taken into account  everything hes told us. But Ive also considered  that a lot of what hes 
told us relates to other complaints  hes raised with us. So, I wont  be commenting  on any 
issues that I dont  think  directly impact on the outcome of this complaint. 
changing the repayment date
Mr S said he asked  for the loan repayment date to be changed  and it wasnt. 
HSBC apologised  and offered £70 compensation. So, Ive considered if this was fair in the 
circumstances. 
I can see Mr S wasnt able to make a loan repayment that month. So, I dont think this 
mistake caused him any loss. But the call notes show Mr S was concerned  about  the 
mistake and at a time when he was in financial difficulties I can understand why. He then 
had to contact  HSBC to fix the problem which would have been inconvenient. Given  this, I 
think £70 compensation is fair in the circumstances. 
taking double payments and financial difficulty
HSBC have now agreed they shouldnt have taken additional loan repayments, so again  I 
need to look at the impact of this mistake  on Mr S. 
Mr S told us these payments put him over his overdraft limit. But Mr Ss current  account 
statements show that he was already  over his overdraft limit. So, I dont think this wasnt 
caused by HSBCs mistake.  And Mr Ss evidence is that once he realised double  payments 
had been taken from his account,  he told HSBC to keep the money because he was in 
arrears on his loan. At this point, Mr S decided not to have the payments  refunded.  So, I 
dont think its reasonable to consider  HSBC  responsible for the impact of this decision on 
his finances. HSBC also agreed not to charge him for going  over his overdraft limit. For all of 
these reasons, I cant find that Mr S lost out as result of this mistake.  
I realise this error caused Mr S some  worry and inconvenience. Mr S had to get back  in 
contact with HSBC  to resolve  this issue. And I recognise  this was the second problem with a 
relatively straight forward request to change his repayment date. At a time when he was in 
financial difficulties and experiencing health problems, I can see why this caused Mr S some 
additional worry. But Ive also noted  he didnt realise  the error  until the second payment 
came out, after which  he phoned HSBC  so I think this worry was temporary.  And for these 
reasons, I think £100 compensation is reasonable in the circumstances.
credit card debt
In this case, HSBC  asked  another agency  to collect the credit card debt on their behalf,  but 
they havent sold it. This is why the payments from Mr Ss current account were  still being 
made to HSBC.
I can see why Mr S is upset by the fact he is now dealing with another company, particularly 
given he was trying to make his payments. But as they explained to Mr S, HSBC are allowed 
to pass on debt to other companies in circumstances like this. They can do this even if all 
repayments are being met, and so I cant find that theyve done anything  wrong  here. 
Mr S says hes been disadvantaged  because he was blocked from making a repayment  
when the debt collector took over administration  of the account. But at that point this debt 
Ref: DRN01394763had already defaulted. This means  any delay in making his repayment wouldnt have had 
any significant impact on the amount he owed or what  was recorded on his credit file. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I've given,  I partially uphold this complaint. 
I am aware  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has now made  an offer to pay £170. I conclude that 
such an offer is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. My decision is that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  pay Mr S £170,  if it already  hasnt done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Jade Cunningham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0139476