K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy with his building warranty provider National House-Building Council
(NHBC), he says it hasnt handled  his claim  for snagging issues with his new home  very well 
or taken  action against the developer for failing to carry our repairs.
background
Mr B bought  his new home in January 2016. In February he sent a list of over 100 snagging 
issues to the developer. When it had done  nothing by March,  Mr B complained to NHBC.
NHBC organised a meeting, found  defects  at the property and set a deadline of 
31 August 2016  for the developer to do the work by. It also found that some  issues  Mr B had 
raised werent defects  according to the policy and so, in those respects,  didnt recommend 
that any work be done. The recommendations it had made werent completed in time.
Mr B had also submitted  a further snagging  list of around 80 items  in May 2016. NHBC 
considered it but thought there was a lot of duplication. It asked the developer  to comment  
on the items within the list but nothing was forthcoming.
In 2017 NHBC arranged  a further appointment to visit Mr Bs home and assess  the 
outstanding work. This took place  in June. Just prior to this, in May, NHBC issued its final 
response to Mr B. It referred to the re-visit and answered some other concerns Mr B had 
raised to that point.
The re-visit  went ahead,  items on both lists were  considered and some, on the first list, were  
marked as resolved. For the outstanding  items that were classed as defects, the developer  
was given until 30 September 2017 to complete  repairs. This deadline wasnt met but NHBC 
acknowledged that it had been somewhat delayed in issuing its report following the June 
meeting  this was only issued in August. In November Mr B told NHBC that no work had 
been done. NHBC sought clarification from Mr B as it thought some work had been. In a call 
Mr B told it that some work from the first list had been done but nothing from the second list.
In December  2017 NHBC wrote to both Mr B and the developer, attaching the lists from the 
June meeting and asking  both to clarify, point by point, what had been done and what 
remained unresolved.  Two days later NHBC issued a further final response to Mr B. It said 
work had taken longer than it would have  liked but as the developer was still willing to be 
involved it wasnt appropriate  for it to take over. However, once it received detail from both 
about what work had been done  it would review  the situation and decide how best to 
complete the claim. It said it had always chased  the developer and had kept Mr B informed 
of what was happening, replying to his contacts.  It said it wouldnt change  his case  handler  
at this point as theyd  done nothing wrong and had invaluable insight into his claim history.
Mr B was unhappy  and complained to us. As well as setting out detail about what had 
occurred to date regarding his first two snagging  lists he said a third list and issues  set out in 
a surveyors report had been ignored by NHBC.  He said NHBC had now offered him around
£10,000 in settlement of his claim  but this wasnt enough and he didnt  think  it covered all the 
issues. He said NHBC should  pay him compensation for everything hed been through  
having bought a new house which hed reasonably expected to be perfect. He said it should 
also compensate him for all the annual leave hed had to take.
Ref: DRN07613182Our investigator noted the response NHBC had issued to Mr B in May 2017 and that when 
hed complained to us it had been more than six months later. So she said shed look at 
things from the point of that response onwards.
She noted that NHBC had previously worked  with the developer  to get work  done and had 
since offered to pay for everything outstanding. She said Mr B hadnt  shown its offer was 
unfair and we couldnt challenge the content of the NHBC reports. She thought there were 
items that NHBC needed to consider from the third snagging list and surveyors  report  but 
that Mr B should speak  with NHBC directly about  this.
Mr B was unhappy.  He detailed that hed paid for some things himself. He provided an 
estimate for repair  in the region of £28,000.  He said this would likely increase once work 
started. The estimate said it was to cover snagging issues.
The complaint was passed  to me and, having considered  it, I felt I needed to issue  a 
provisional decision. That was because I didnt  think the cash settlement  or the third 
snagging list were  things I could look at under this complaint. I did think  NHBC should  pay 
Mr B £250  compensation though for some  delays I felt it had caused.  My provisional  findings 
were:
resolution service
NHBCs warranty isnt just an insurance policy. That means that some of the actions NHBC 
undertakes arent insurance related. The resolution  service NHBC offers  is one of those 
things  it is intended to help the homeowner and developer resolve  any differences  they 
have but it isnt an insurance  activity.
At this service we can only consider complaints  about insurance (or regulated) activities. So 
any complaints or parts of complaints that are about  things that NHBC does as part of the 
resolution service arent within our jurisdiction to consider.
That means that if NHBC creates a resolution  report as part of the resolution service which, 
for example, says that not all snagging issues equate to defects as covered by the policy  (so 
no repairs are recommended) and the complainant disagrees  we cant consider that.
Likewise, if the complainant  is unhappy with repairs or how long they take, or that the 
developer misses  appointments and their time is wasted  we cant look at that. Not as long 
as NHBC isnt carrying out a regulated activity.
This service though  considers  that NHBC begins carrying  out regulated activity when:
A resolution report has been issued, and
The developer has failed to complete the work in the report  by the deadline set.
This means that, in respect  of the third snagging list and surveyors  report,  NHBC hasnt ever 
started to carry out any regulated activity. Thats  because it hasnt issued a resolution report  
containing recommendation and a completion  deadline which then hasnt been  met. So
I cant consider anything that has happened  or failed to happen in respect of this part of 
Mr Bs complaint. I know he wants his cost refunding  for the surveyors report  but that isnt 
something I can look at.
Ref: DRN07613183Regarding the other lists; NHBC was carrying out a regulated activity:
In respect of the first snagging  list from the resolution report deadline set and that wasnt 
met  31 August  2016.
In respect of the second snagging list, which didnt  have a resolution report issued until 
August 2017, from the deadline  date NHBC set and that wasnt met  
30 September 2017.
However, I still cant look at everything  that occurred from August 2016 onwards. Thats 
because of NHBCs letter issued in May 2017.
final response letter May 2017
As well as only being able to look at complaints about regulated  activities this service  can 
only consider complaints,  or parts of complaints, that have been bought to us within certain 
timeframes. One such period is when a complaint is made to us more  than six months  after 
a final response letter  issued.
NHBCs issued its first final response to Mr B in May 2017. But Mr B didnt complain to this 
service until January 2018, after it had issued a further final response in December 2017.  
For Mr B this means that I cant look at anything that hes complained about that was dealt 
with by NHBC in its May 2017 letter. So I cant look at whether NHBC unreasonably delayed  
his claim or acted unfairly in any way between August 2016 (when it first began  carrying  out 
regulated activity)  and May 2017.
My assessment can only start from May 2017 onwards. And it can only go as far as NHBCs 
second final response letter dated 22 December  2017. I cant  look at the cash settlement 
offer NHBC made in February 2018.
cash settlement February 2018
When an insurer issues a final response on a complaint that allows the complainant  to ask 
us to consider their concerns. Any complaint, as Ive said above has to be made within 
six-months from the date of the final response letter. NHBCs last final response letter was 
issued on 22 December  2017, before its cash offer was made. This occurred two months 
later, and one month after Mr B first complained to this service. So the offer is not part of his 
complaint as made to NHBC  and forwarded  to us to consider. And NHBC hasnt provided us 
any evidence in respect of how it came to make that cash offer or said that we can include 
consideration of this issue within this complaint.
work Mr B has paid for
Whilst Mr B paid for some work himself it seems  this occurred after the 22 December 2017 
letter. So I cant consider that here. Even  if he did some work before this time, the nature of 
that work (if it was something NHBC should have done) and the cost of it would have to be 
considered alongside the settlement  offer NHBC made in February 2018 (and that Ive 
commented on in my section immediately above this one). Thats because those costs may 
well have been factored fairly into the sum NHBC offered. So the two issues go 
hand-in-hand, meaning as I cant consider the offer, I cant consider whether NHBC needs  to 
reimburse Mr B for his outlay for the work  hes had done and paid for.
Ref: DRN0761318417 May 2017 to 22 December 2017
This then is the period in which I can consider  NHBCs actions. And in doing that I have to 
keep in mind that, in respect of the second snagging list, NHBC only began  carrying out 
regulated activity on 30 September 2017.
Following the May letter, I think that it was always important for NHBC to go back  to the 
property to look at what had and hadnt  been  done. I understand that the first point such  a 
meeting could be arranged was June  2017.  The necessary delay this caused,  from the point 
of the May letter, was reasonable. There was then a delay whilst the assessor made  his 
report. Ive seen the reasons given  for this delay, I think this delay was unreasonable and 
could have been avoided. I accept  it caused Mr B some  frustration,  however, it didnt affect 
the deadline given for work to be completed  this wasnt extended. And the deadline still 
has relevance here, in my opinion, because of the complication created by the second 
snagging list and the fact that, at the point of the June 2017  meeting, NHBC was only 
carrying out regulated  activity regarding the first list.
If there  was only the first snagging list, or if NHBC had been carrying  out regulated activity in 
respect of both lists at the point of its meeting  in June 2017, then Id likely have said that 
NHBC should reasonably  have got involved directly to at that point  to sort out all of the 
unresolved work, either within the only list there was or across both of the lists. But the 
second list and lack of regulated activity  in respect  of it, as at June 2017, affect that.
NHBC has a contractual arrangement in respect of its warranties with the developers of the 
property. The developer is liable in those  first two years for fixing defects but NHBC will try 
and facilitate repair under  its resolution  scheme.  It cant step in though, to take over from the 
developer, until the developer has had a chance  to do it and failed. So whilst  by June 2017 
the developer  had had that chance  and failed in respect of the first snagging list, it hadnt 
had that chance regarding the second. I understand that NHBC was obliged to give it that 
opportunity. And that being the case I couldnt reasonably  expect NHBC to take over in 
respect of the first list whilst simultaneously  asking  the developer to resolve list two. Not in 
the circumstances here where there  are so many issues  in each list that affect almost all 
areas of the home. It would be an impractical arrangement at best.
However, I think that NHBC should reasonably  have  kept a weather eye on the progress of 
work and, once the deadline for work on both lists had passed  at the end of September  with 
no real progress having occurred, it should have taken action straight away to take this out 
of the hands of the developer. I think it could also reasonably have  prepared  for the likely 
eventuality that little progress would be made by putting some provisional arrangements in 
place for shortly after the deadline  ended  so as to avoid further delay in resolving the claim. 
Leaving it to progress beyond this point and merely asking Mr B and the developer for 
updates was unreasonable. I think that it carrying  on in this vein between 1 October  2017  
(the day after the deadline expired) and 22 December 2017 (the date of its final response)  
caused Mr B a fair deal of frustration and upset.  I think it should pay him £250 compensation 
to make up for this.
reimbursement of surveyors  report and annual leave
Im not going  to make NHBC  do anything  regarding these  two issues.
Mr B submitted the surveyors report to NHBC by way of showing it snagging issues  that it 
hadnt considered already within the first two snagging lists (as I mentioned earlier  on in my 
Ref: DRN07613185findings). So this report hasnt been  made  in respect  of any regulated activity NHBC was 
carrying out. Even if it includes somethings that were on the first and second list but not 
completed by the developer, I dont  think the report has reasonably influenced either NHBCs 
actions or my decision.
Furthermore, the report essentially shows pictures of issue Mr B has with his home. NHBC 
isnt responsible for every  issue Mr B might find. As it has explained before, the warranty  
cover, in respect  of issues notified  to the developer in the first two years, only applies to 
defects. Defects  have  a particular definition within the warranty  and not every problem a 
homeowner finds will fall within that definition. So sending photos  of problems  or even a 
repair estimate that refers to fixing all snagging  issues, doesnt show  that NHBC is 
responsible for the issue in question.  So even  if the report relates to regulated  activity,  Im 
not minded to make NHBC  reimburse the cost of it.
Mr B would always  have needed  to attend  some meetings to resolve the problems he found 
with his home. NHBC isnt responsible for the fact his home has defects. I know  it carried  out 
an inspection before the building was completed  but that wasnt done with a view to 
guaranteeing no defects with the house  were  present. And when NHBC did this check  it 
wasnt carrying out regulated activity, so its actions arent something  I can look at.
As I said above I think the June 2017  meeting was always necessary. It isnt clear to me if
Mr B then had to attend meetings after this time and before 22 December 2017. The fact that 
he reports no work was done  suggests  he didnt have any need  to take time off to meet the 
developer or its contractor. But even if there were a few necessary meetings that wouldnt be 
unusual  there reasonably has to be some  input by a homeowner  when work is being done. 
So whilst its unfortunate that Mr B had to take time off, this isnt something  I can reasonably  
require NHBC to compensate him for.
responses to my provisional  decision
NHBC said it accepted my provisional findings.  Mr B was dissatisfied with my findings.
Mr B said NHBC  had confirmed it had failed him by not initially dealing with his claim 
following his first contact with it in February  2016. He said hed never  received NHBCs first 
letter to him. He felt too much attention had been  given  to processes and not enough  
consideration had been  given to what had actually  gone on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time Mr B first contacted NHBC,  NHBC wasnt carrying  out a regulated  activity.  As I 
explained provisionally I cant consider any acts of omissions of NHBC when it wasnt 
carrying out a regulated  activity. In respect  of Mr Bs first snagging  list that didnt begin until 
31 August 2016.  But I also explained  that I couldnt  look at what NHBC did between then 
and its first letter of response to Mr B in May 2017.
Ref: DRN07613186Even if Mr B didnt receive  that, Id only have to be satisfied that NHBC sent it, which  I am. 
But, in any event, Mr B supplied a copy of this letter to this service  as part of his initial 
complaint submissions.  
I appreciate that the processes and rules are frustrating  but they cant be ignored. And the 
result of applying the processes and rules  means that most of Mr Bs concerns cant  be 
considered by this service. That means that I cant,  for the most part, look at what went  on. 
There is a short period that I can consider  and have reached an outcome on; 17 May 2017 
until 22 December 2017. Ive reached my conclusion on what happened during this time 
based on my experience  and knowledge. The date of the meeting in June and deadline  
dates for work are facts known to Mr B and NHBC. Taking these events into account against  
the backdrop of all of the work  both parties  were  aware needed resolving, only part of which  
NHBC could reasonably have stepped in and taken  over, allowed me to conclude  that NHBC 
should have acted differently. It should  have  been  prepared to start all work on 
1 October 2017, rather than merely  chasing Mr B and the developer  for updates over the 
following months (to the point of its December response). For the upset caused as a result of 
this Im satisfied that £250 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.  
my final decision
It is my decision,  as explained above, that there are parts of Mr Bs complaint, as made to 
this service in January  2018, that I cant consider. Therefore, in respect  of these  aspects of 
the complaint,  I cant and havent considered their merits.
Regarding the rest of the complaint that I am able to and have considered,  I uphold  it in part. 
In that respect, I require National House-Building Council to pay Mr B £250  compensation.  
I dont make  any other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0761318