K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that a promotional offer marketed  by Sporting Index Limited was 
misleading and as a result  he has suffered  financially.
background
Mr M has said he received a promotional offer from Sporting Index Limited  on                         
20 November 2018. The offer said Sporting  Index would refund up to a maximum of £100 for 
any losses on bets placed on any Spread Game products  offered  by Sporting Index. Mr M 
has said the email didnt make it clear  if casino games were  covered by the term spread 
games. And the only time he has ever played  spread  games was a few years  ago, and that 
was in response to an offer linked to a specific game. So, he wasnt clear what  was meant 
by the term spread games.
Mr M decided to use the promotional offer to play roulette  as he assumed this game  was 
included. He expected his losses to be refunded  in line with the promotion. But no refund 
was applied. So, he contacted Sporting  Index and he was told that the promotion  didnt apply  
to casino products.
Mr M says the promotional offer was misleading for many reasons, including, the fact that on 
the mobile platform (which Mr M uses) the link to the spread games was not immediately 
available and was only accessed after clicking several links.  Secondly Mr M says that in the 
promotional email it referenced Blackjack which led Mr M to believe games on the casino 
site were also covered  by the promotional offer. And so, Mr M raised a complaint to Sporting  
Index
Sporting Index  looked into Mr Ms complaint, but it said it was satisfied that the promotional  
offer clearly  outlined which products were  covered  by the promotion.  Also,  it said Mr M had 
opened a spread betting account with it in June 2000. So, it said Mr M wouldve understood 
the difference between fixed odds betting  and spread betting. And as the promotion  used  the 
term spread it indicated that the nature of the product was different to traditional casino 
games. 
Sporting Index  did acknowledge  that on the mobile  platform, Mr M would have had to click 
on several links, but it didnt think this supported his argument that the promotion was 
misleading. It also said whilst there was an image  of Blackjack in the email, if Mr M had 
clicked on the image it would have taken  him to the casino spread games section. So again, 
it didnt think this was enough to say the promotion  was misleading.
Mr M didnt  agree with Sporting Indexs response. He said just because he had been  a 
customer for a long time and had previously played a spread  game (several  years ago), this 
didn't mean he knew what was covered  by the term spread games. So,  he brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator investigated Mr Ms complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld.  To 
summarise she said the promotional email was clear  that the offer only applied  to spread 
game products and she said the terms were clear  about what is meant by spread game 
products. So, she didnt think the offer was misrepresented  or misleading. 
She explained that while she understood  that Mr M was confused  about  blackjack being 
included in the email, upon investigation she established it said blackjack is now available 
Ref: DRN00240392on mobile so again  she didnt think this was enough  to confuse the reader that blackjack 
would be included in the promotional offer. 
She said she accepts that the term spread games isnt immediately shown on Sporting 
Indexs homepage  of the mobile  platform.  But the promotional offer was sent by email and 
contained a link which directs customers to the spread games needed  to qualify for the offer.  
She concluded by saying  having reviewed Mr Ms usage of the account she could see he 
had placed over 600 spread bets. So, she felt this was enough to demonstrate he was aware 
of the difference between fixed odds bets (the traditional casino games)  and spread bets. 
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigators opinion  so the case  was passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will explain why.
Promotional Literature
Mr M received a promotional offer from Sporting Index by email.  This type of promotional 
activity is regulated and subject  to the FCAs principles of business. So, the issues for me to 
consider are:
Did Sporting Index  pay due regard to the information needs of its customers
And did it communicate in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Having reviewed the email (promotional offer) sent to Mr M Im satisfied that it clearly  states  
the offer only applied  to spread games therefore,  it plainly explains what  product the 
promotion applies to. The email then goes on to say:
Read the T&Cs  then enjoy the excitement of spread games
So, with that in mind, I think its reasonable to conclude  that it was clear the offer related to 
spread games  only, and the terms and conditions  were  provided to ensure the reader was 
aware how the promotion worked and what it related to. 
Understanding the term spread games
Ive considered the point Mr M has raised  about  his understanding  of the term spread  
games. And the fact he has said he was confused further by the fact the email  said:
Plus  Blackjack. are now available on Mobile!  So, you can play your favourite games on-
the-go, wherever you are.
Which he says led him to believe  traditional  casino games were  included. And indeed, 
casino games were included, but only the spread betting version  of those games  qualified  for 
the promotion not the traditional  version  of the games. 
I have reviewed evidence  provided by Sporting Index which  shows how the platform  would 
appear on a mobile  device. And having  done so, I am satisfied there is a distinction  between 
Ref: DRN00240393the spread games and the traditional  casino version of these games. Secondly,  I have also 
considered Mr Ms experience in placing spread bets. Mr M explained he has previously 
place spread bets. So, its reasonable to suggest Mr M wouldve known what  is meant  by the 
term spread games and how it differed  to non-spread bets. Also, as an execution only 
customer, Mr M has a responsibility  to ensure he understands what  product he is trading. 
Sporting Indexs  website has a very clear  frequently asked questions  section  explaining 
the difference between casino games and spread games. So, there was enough information  
available for him to understand the difference. 
So, with that in mind, I cant say Sporting  Index has acted unfairly  or unreasonably. I say this  
because the promotional offer gave Mr M enough information for him to understand what  
products were covered by the promotion and how the promotion worked. And considering  Mr 
Ms experience and account usage I am satisfied he had enough experience to distinguish 
between a spread  bet and fixed odds bet. Therefore, I wont  be asking Sporting Index to do 
anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0024039