K821x#15complaint
Ms S has complained about  her home  insurer Fairmead in relation to a claim she made after 
a car was driven  into her home.
background
A car was driven into Ms Ss home in August 2017.  Ms S and her family had to move out but 
there were issues with this as well as some initial delays. Ms S complained and Fairmead 
issued a final response dated  13 October  2017.  Ms S didnt complain  to us in the six months 
following that response and the claim continued.  
On the day of Fairmeads final response  Ms S moved into a rented property. The move did 
not go entirely smoothly and one of Ms Ss daughters  had moved in with her partner instead 
of remaining  with Ms S. Into November Fairmead expected repairs  on Ms Ss home  to start 
and be completed  in January 2018.  But it was then decided  that the work needed to be put 
to tender  this process did not complete until June 2018. Reinstatement  followed  but Ms S 
remained unhappy.
In September  2018 Fairmead wrote  to Ms S to address her concerns with the claim.  It said 
there had been  a six-week delay in late 2017  and into 2018. This was because of a mix-up 
over the premium payment. It noted  Ms S said some items had gone missing and it was 
looking into that. For the delay, which it accepted it had caused, £200 was paid to Ms S.
By December 2018 most work was reported  as being complete  but Ms S hadnt moved 
home. Ms S had reported cracking having occurred  at the property. Fairmead  instructed a 
structural engineer. A report was completed  in January 2019 which concluded  the cracks 
were unrelated to the incident  of repairs. In early February 2019 Ms S received short  notice 
that shed have to move  to different accommodation.  
In early March, within six months  of the date of Fairmead September  2018 final response, 
Ms S complained to us. She later confirmed  that it was late May 2019 when she was able to 
return home. But in order to do this shed had to organise herself for the property to be 
cleaned (although Fairmead  reimbursed the cost). Ms S also told us what issues she 
believed to be outstanding. 
Our investigator explained that we couldnt  take into account what had happened  before 
Fairmeads letter in October 2017  but said he would look at everything which had occurred 
until Ms S returned home in 2019. He felt Fairmead  should pay Ms S a further  £800  
compensation. 
Fairmead agreed. Ms S said this didnt answer  her concerns about the outstanding issues. 
When Ms Ss complaint was passed to me, I noted that, to that point, we hadnt properly 
assessed all of Mrs Ss complaint. I looked at the other concerns Ms S had told us about and 
shared my thoughts on these aspects with both parties. In doing so I explained that once 
they had considered my views, and replied  with any final comments for me to take into 
account, Id review the complaint as a whole. My views,  as shared with the parties, on the 
outstanding elements of the complaint, were:
Boiler not working   Fairmead replaced the pump as it had seized likely due to the house 
being empty  and the system being inoperative for a while. Farimead  says its plumber said 
the system wasnt in good working order before the repair. But Ive seen  no evidence of this. 
Ref: DRN03193412I think Fairmead fairly needs  to assess the boiler. If the fault found  is likely linked to long 
periods of disuse  or the pump replacement repair, then Fairmead will need  to resolve the 
issue. 
Cracked window  pane,  blinds in lounge, curtains  in top bedroom   Three  items which  
Fairmead has agreed to pay for but which  it says it is waiting on prices for from Ms S. 
I havent seen  that Ms S has sent those costs to Fairmead but I did ask it what  price it would 
put on these items. It has said it cant say. If Ms S has costs for these items, Ill consider 
them. But otherwise I intend to require  Fairmead  to pay Ms S £500  to allow  her to replace 
them, based  on my awareness of the costs for such items. In the absence of evidence of 
actual prices for these  items, I think this is a reasonable sum.
Double wardrobe and all contents were  disposed of  Fairmead is waiting  for a cost for all of 
this. I have no way to estimate what a reasonable sum might  be in this respect. For this 
issue Ms S will have  to work with Fairmead. Fairmead will have to respond reasonably  and 
work with Ms S to find a suitable resolution  for items where  there is a lack of proof regarding 
value. 
Bath taps dont work  Fairmead says it didnt do any work on the bathroom.  I cant see any 
logical link or likely reason why this might be something Fairmead is liable for.
Various water leaks  Further damage occurring to a home  whilst it is being  repaired can be 
frustrating. I havent  seen though anything that makes me think these leaks resulted from 
poor work or errors by Fairmead and its contractors.
Independent structural assessment was never  carried out  Ive seen that it was and 
Fairmead says it has shared the report with Ms S. For completeness  Ive had our 
investigator share it with Ms S.
Missing items, including kayak from garage   Ms S says items  went  missing whilst  Fairmead  
was repairing the property. Fairmead says it doesnt  know when or how the items came  to 
be missing, but Ms S and her family all had access to the house even while  it was doing 
repairs. Fairmead had suggested that Ms S reports the matter to the police and makes a 
theft claim on her policy. Whilst I understand why Ms S feels  Fairmead is responsible,  Ive no 
way know that is most likely the case.  I dont intend  to find Fairmead is liable for these 
items.
Responses from the parties
Fairmead agreed with most of what Id said. But it said it doesnt  have  contractors who can 
assess the boiler as it only employs  contractors to repair  or replace boilers.  It said Ms S 
should get the boiler tested and it would consider things from there.
Ms S said she wanted to draw this matter  to a close. She provided a police reference 
number regarding the missing kayak.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN03193413Ive noted what  Fairmead  has said about the boiler,  but Im not persuaded by its comments. 
As an insurer Fairmead completes repairs on many large loss water  and fire claims, many of 
which will involve damage to the propertys heating system and, quite often, a natural part of 
the repair process is for the boiler  to be tested. If damage cant  be diagnosed, it cant  be 
repaired. Im not persuaded that Fairmeads contractors are not in a position to complete the 
actions I set out in my provisional decision.  However, if Fairmead really has no one on its 
panel that can complete diagnostic work, then it will have to source such  a resource. 
Fairmead worked on the boiler and part of completing a proper repair  (where  it hasnt been 
shown that there were  any pre-existing issues with the boiler, as is the case  here)  is to 
ensure it works properly  afterwards. Fairmead needs to complete that work  it isnt fair to 
farm it out onto Ms S.
I appreciate that Ms S has reported the missing  kayak  to the police. If she wants to pursue a 
theft claim for this item with Fairmead  she should  contact it directly. I remain of the view that, 
currently, there isnt sufficient evidence for me to reasonably conclude  Fairmead  was liable 
for this item going missing  during its repair of the property. 
The comments I received  from the parties  in response to the preliminary findings I issued 
havent changed my view as to what  Fairmead needs to do to put things right. Those  
findings now form part of my final decision.  
As our investigator explained, I cant look at what happened before 13 October 2017, the 
date of Fairmeads initial final response letter.  Ive taken into account activity from then until 
Ms S moved home in summer 2019.
I think this claim  took far longer than it ever should  reasonably have done. It was a complex  
claim, revolving around complex structural issues  but there seem to have  been  significant 
delays with the tender process  starting before and continuing long after the six weeks 
Fairmead has accepted  liability  for. This meant that Ms S and her family  were out of their 
home for far longer  than they should have been. And I see there were sometimes  problems 
with the accommodation too  rent not being  paid for example and having to move  at short  
notice. Whilst Fairmead  paid for cleaning the property, Ms S had to organise this. I can see 
the protracted situation has caused Ms S a lot of upset, Im satisfied that a further £800 is 
fairly and reasonably due. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to:
Assess Ms Ss boiler, via use of an appropriately qualified heating  engineer,  to determine 
what is wrong with it, and if that fault is due to the boiler having not been used for a long 
period, or is linked to the replacement  pump  repair it previously carried  out, it will have to 
reinstate the boiler. 
Pay Ms S £500 to allow  her to repair/replace the window  pane, blinds and curtains.
Consider settlement for the wardrobe and its contents.
Pay Ms S a further £800 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03193414
Ref: DRN0319341