K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Elavon Financial  Services Designated Activity  Company closed his card 
terminal account. It recorded that fact on card schemes databases,  making it difficult for Mr 
N to make alterative  arrangements,  and Elavon  continues to seek payment from Mr N of 
money it says is outstanding.   
background
Mr N runs a small  business as a sole trader.  Elavon provides merchant card services, 
enabling businesses  to take card payments from their customers, which  it processes and 
passes to customers banks. Elavon and Mr N had an agreement enabling him to take card 
payments. 
In January 2019 Mr N says he was contacted by someone who asked him to take a card 
payment for an events  planner. He was to take the payment of nearly £3,000  and pass most 
of it to a third party. Mr N agreed to do that. 
The payment was, however, fraudulent. The cardholder  hadnt authorised it; someone  had 
used their card without their consent. Elavon queried the payment with Mr N, because  it was 
for more than the usual amounts that Mr N took by way of card payments. When Mr N 
explained what had happened,  Elavon  told him that it was in breach of their agreement to 
take payments  on behalf of third parties; he should, it said, process a refund to the 
cardholder. 
In the meantime, however, the card payment had been credited to Mr Ns bank account  and 
the genuine cardholder had reported the payment as fraudulent. Mr Ns own bank froze  the 
payment while  it looked  into what had happened. Elavon  refunded the payment to the 
cardholder; Mr N had been unable to do so because of the restrictions  on his account. 
Elavon terminated  the agreement with Mr N  by giving 60 days  notice  and recorded  that 
fact with the relevant card schemes.  It also sought  payment  of outstanding sums it said were 
due from Mr N, including the fraudulent  payment. 
Mr N contacted this service after receiving demands  for payment from an external agency  
acting on behalf  of Elavon. Our investigator  contacted Mr Ns bank, which  returned the 
fraudulent payment to Elavon  reducing  Mr Ns liability to it by the same  amount. In return, 
Elavon provided  Mr Ns bank with an indemnity,  enabling the bank to look to Elavon  should it 
receive any competing claim on those funds.  
Mr N didnt think that went far enough, however.  Specifically,  hes concerned that Elavon is 
still seeking payment  from him and that the reports made to the card schemes  mean he cant 
obtain card services elsewhere.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
There seems  to me no dispute that the payment Mr N was asked to take was part of a 
fraudulent scheme,  of which  he was a victim.  The cardholders  card provider  would have 
investigated that before seeking a refund  for its customer. Elavon doesnt  suggest that Mr N 
acted dishonestly in taking the payment; it does  say however that he acted in breach of the 
Ref: DRN02616402terms of its agreement with him. I agree with Elavon on this point; the terms said that 
merchants should  not take payments for third parties. 
I agree  too that Elavon was within its rights to end its agreement with Mr N. It gave notice 
before doing so. 
Mr N remains  unhappy however that Elavon reported what had happened  in such a way that 
he cant now obtain merchant card services. Elavon says that its arrangements with the card 
schemes mean that it had little or no choice in that. I accept that was the case; whatever the 
reasons, Mr N took a fraudulent payment and breached the terms of his agreement  with 
Elavon by taking  a payment for a third party. He didnt know  the payment was fraudulent, but 
he did know it wasnt ultimately intended  for the person for whom he took it. I can understand 
why the card schemes and other merchant services providers might wish to be aware of 
that. 
I note too that Elavon is seeking  payment  from Mr N. However, the amount its now seeking  
doesnt appear to include  the fraudulent payment,  for which its now received reimbursement 
from Mr Ns bank. Its not for me to say what, if anything, Mr N owes,  but I agree that Elavon 
has correctly dealt  with the refunded payment in its account with Mr N.    
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont require Elavon Financial 
Services Designated Activity Company to take any further steps to resolve Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0261640