K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc didnt help her when she made  a payment to the 
wrong account.
background
Miss S went to a HSBC branch on 2 May 2018 to make a payment of £950 to her landlord.  
She says she was directed by HSBC staff to use a faster payment express machine. She 
says the staff member  selected her previous landlord as the payee but she accepts she then 
checked the transaction and approved it. The payment was sent to her previous landlord  and 
not her present one. Miss S says she asked staff to help her but was not given  any help and 
sent away. She says the following day she went to a different HSBC  branch and staff there 
helped her and tried to get her money back. Miss S says she only received £64.82 back.
HSBC accepts Miss S received poor service in its branch and has offered £150  
compensation for that part of her complaint. It says it followed the misdirected payment 
protocol by raising the mistake  within  two days but unfortunately  only £64.82  was able to be 
returned.
Miss S brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator thought HSBC had dealt fairly with 
the complaint.  The adjudicator accepted Miss S had received poor service  in the branch but 
thought the offer of £150 was fair and reasonable. The adjudicator  thought that HSBC  had 
followed the agreed process  by raising the problem within two days and that Miss S had 
authorised the payment.
Miss S didnt accept  that view and asked that it be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  She says 
shes been caused a significant  level of stress  as a result of what happened and was caused  
significant financial problems.
I asked both sides for further information.  In summary I asked HSBC why its staff didnt try 
and do more for Miss S and if the delay of a day in doing something  impacted on the amount 
of money recovered.  I asked Miss S to explain why she waited a day in raising  the issue.
HSBC says the delay doesnt  matter as it still raised the issue  within the required two days. 
Miss S says she wasnt  given any help by staff and thats why she felt she had to leave the 
branch.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision and said Ive came  to the provisional view that the 
compensation offer didnt go far enough. 
I said that I didnt think  there  could  be any doubt  that Miss S was not treated appropriately by 
HSBC staff when she attended its branch on 2 May 2018. I accepted that Miss S was 
unfamiliar with the process  for using HSBCs express payment machine. I thought  it likely  
that was the reason that the HSBC staff member was also trying  to assist Miss S. I didnt 
think it was entirely clear what then happened  or how it happened  but Miss S authorised a 
payment to the wrong person. I had no doubt  what Miss S said, that she realised the mistake  
almost straight away. And I also had no doubt  at that stage she would have been extremely  
concerned and worried about  where her money was or if she could get it back.
Ref: DRN04878632I would have expected HSBC staff at that point to deal sympathetically  with Miss S and 
explain what  her options were. I would also have expected  HSBC  staff to have explained the 
agreed protocol  on misdirected payments  and to have started the process there and then. 
And to have  made sure that Miss S left the branch knowing exactly  what was going  to 
happen and made  aware  of the possibility of her not  receiving  all or some of her money.  
Miss S should also have  been advised of what her other options were  in those 
circumstances, such as court proceedings or contacting the police.
I accepted that the protocol says that any action  to recover  money  in these circumstances 
should be commenced within two days,  and so HSBC didnt breach that rule by commencing 
action the following day. But regardless of that I was satisfied for the reasons I explained that 
Miss S was treated unfairly in branch on 2 May 2018. I accepted that even if action had 
commenced earlier there would be no guarantee that Miss S would have received any more 
money back. So for that reason I said I couldnt  fairly  order  HSBC  to refund the payment.
I was satisfied that as Miss S wasnt treated fairly in branch on 2 May 2018 she was forced  
to attend a different HSBC branch in order to try and get her money  back. I thought that 
branch dealt fairly with her but that extra visit would have caused further inconvenience. And 
I thought that if Miss S hadnt have attended the second branch then the misdirected 
payment process  wouldnt have  started  at all, as staff in the first branch do not appear to 
have started it.
So Ive came to the provisional view that although  Miss S made the mistake by authorising 
the payment,  HSBC  should have done  more to assist and advise  her after the mistake was 
made. I didnt think the offer of £150 went far enough and didnt recognise the impact  this 
had on Miss S or the distress and inconvenience she was caused. I thought HSBC should 
pay total compensation of £300.
Both Miss S and HSBC have accepted my decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Ive reached the 
same decision  as I did in my provisional  decision. It doesnt appear that HSBC  paid the £150 
compensation it previously offered and so I will order  it pays  the full amount of £300.  If 
HSBC has made a payment that we are unaware  of, then no doubt  it will adjust the payment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  HSBC  UK Bank Plc to pay Miss S 
total compensation of £300
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2019..
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0487863