K820x#14Complaint 
Mr and Mrs C complain that The Co-operative  Bank  Plc (Co-op), trading as Britannia, mis-
sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1998, Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with the Co-op. At that time, they were  sold a 
PPI policy  to protect the repayments on their mortgage for up to twelve  months  if Mr C 
became unemployed. This cover was provided free for the first year, after which  it cost 
£24.33 a month.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators assessment,  so the case has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case. Having done so, Im not 
upholding it for reasons  that Ill now explain.
Ive seen a copy  of the application form which Mr and Mrs C signed for their mortgage.  
Theres a section on this headed Mortgage  Payment Protection . And I can see that the 
Yes box has been ticked next to the question  Do you require a Payment Protection 
application.  Theres  an equally  prominent No box that could have been ticked by 
Mr and Mrs C if they hadnt been  interested in this type of protection. 
Co-op has also provided a copy of the PPI application form which Mr C subsequently 
completed and signed.  And I can see that unemployment only cover of £809.19 a month has 
been selected. Mr C has also ticked a number of boxes provided on the form to confirm that 
he was eligible for the type of cover hed chosen.
So from what Ive seen,  I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs C actively  decided to take the 
PPI policy, knowing that they could choose  not to do so.
Co-op says that this was a non-advised sale. And from all the information Ive seen on this 
case, together with what I know more generally about how Co-op sold PPI on mortgages at 
the time,  I dont think that it did provide a recommendation to Mr and Mrs C based  on their 
specific circumstances. And what Mr and Mrs C have said themselves - about Co-op not 
enquiring into their existing means of protecting their mortgage - seems  to further confirm 
that this was the case. This means that Co-op  didnt  need to ensure that the policy was 
suitable for them. But it did still need  to give Mr and Mrs C enough information for them  to 
decide if they wanted to take it.
Mr and Mrs C say that they werent  given a detailed explanation of the PPI policy at the time. 
And theres  no record of what  was said to them then. It seems likely that they did receive 
some summary written  information about  the policy. But I dont think I can be certain  that the 
information they had available to them when they decided to take out this cover  was as good 
as it should have been. However, from what I know of their circumstances at the time, I dont 
Ref: DRN09438262think that better information would have changed their minds about  taking the policy.  I say 
this because:
Mr C appears  to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mr and Mrs C say that at the time of the sale they didnt need the cover that the policy  
provided to them.  They say that Mr C was entitled to a redundancy payment from his 
employer. They also say that they had some savings and might have been able to get 
help from relatives  in need. And they say that Mrs C was the higher  contributor to the 
family income and so it was her salary  which was most important for paying  the 
mortgage. 
But they chose  to take out the unemployment  cover for Mr C, so it appears that they 
valued this type of protection and thought it might come in useful if things  went  wrong. 
The policy would have paid out in addition to any other means that they might have had 
of making their mortgage repayments if Mr C became unemployed, leaving these 
available to be used  for other things. And their mortgage was a big financial  commitment 
 one where their home was potentially at risk if they couldnt afford their monthly 
repayments. So I still think  that they would  have valued the extra  security which the 
cover gave them and their family.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs C. And as the 
premiums were  paid for monthly  after the free period  ended, they could choose to cancel 
it if they decided  it no longer  met their needs.
So, having  considered all the information  available to me, I dont  think  that Mr and Mrs C 
have lost out by anything  that Co-op may have done  wrong  when it sold them  this PPI policy.
Ive carefully thought  about all the points  Mr and Mrs C have raised  in disagreeing with the 
adjudicators assessment.  But these havent  changed my mind about  not upholding their 
complaint. As Ive already  said, I dont think that Co-op was required to ensure that the policy 
was suitable for them.  And whilst I accept that, at the point of sale, they did have some other 
means of paying  their mortgage for a time if Mr C became  unemployed, I still think they 
would have thought the policy  gave them useful additional cover.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 September 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0943826