K821x#15complaint
Mr S and Mrs W complain  Santander  UK Plc wouldnt guarantee theyd be able to port their 
mortgage and told them their application  may be declined.
background
Mr S and Mrs W took out an interest  only mortgage  for around £900,000 with Santander in 
November 2011.  The ratio of the loan to the value of their property (LTV) was around 75%.
They initially  had a two-year fixed rate interest  product. They  took another  fixed interest rate 
product for five years  in around August 2013 which was due to expire in September 2018 
and had an early  repayment charge (ERC) of 5%. 
In early 2018 Mr S and Mrs W wanted to move to a new house and relocate. They spoke to 
Santander about porting their mortgage.  
Mr S and Mrs W say Santander gave them conflicting advice about whether theyd be able to 
port their interest rate product.  They  say Santander told them to start looking  for a new 
house, but they were unhappy Santander  couldnt tell them in advance  whether an 
application to port would  succeed. They complained to Santander about this in April 2018.
In its response to the complaint in April 2018  Santander explained how porting worked.  And 
it told Mr S and Mrs W it couldnt  tell them before theyd  made  an application if one would be 
approved. 
Mr S and Mrs W argued their plans wouldnt lead to Santander taking any additional risk - 
the amount they wanted to borrow would be the same and the value of the property they 
planned to buy would  be higher, so the LTV would go down.
Mr S and Mrs W say they couldnt  go ahead  with an application when they contacted  
Santander in May 2018, as Santander  had suggested, because  they hadnt agreed terms on 
the house they wanted to buy. 
Mr S and Mrs W sold their house in late August 2018 and paid off the Santander mortgage. 
Theyd lost out on buying the house  theyd wanted,  so moved into rented accommodation. 
Their rent was much  higher  than their monthly  mortgage payments had been. 
Our investigator upheld  Mr S and Mrs Ws complaint. Mr S and Mrs W had never  made a 
formal application  to port. But our investigator noted  Santander had taken a detailed  look at 
Mr S and Mrs Ws financial circumstances and told them an application was unlikely  to 
succeed, on grounds it wasnt affordable. She came  to the view Santanders risk wouldnt 
increase as a result  of Mr S and Mrs Ws proposals  to borrow  the same  amount and not 
increase the LTV. She felt Santander would have been able to waive the strict  affordability  
checks set out in the mortgage regulations. And she thought,  if theyd done  that, an 
application is likely to have succeeded.  
Our investigator thought Santander should allow Mr S and Mrs W to apply for a new 
mortgage on similar terms to those theyd  have been entitled to if theyd made a porting  
application in line with the mortgage conditions, allowing them  six months to find a new 
house, and paying them £250 compensation for the trouble theyd been put to.
Ref: DRN01424582Santander agreed to pay Mr S and Mrs W compensation of £250 each. And it said it would 
consider a porting application  and allow  Mr S and Mrs W six months  from the date they 
accepted the outcome of their complaint to this service to find a property  to move to. 
But Santander said it would need to re-assess Mr S and Mrs Ws financial situation. Mr S 
and Mrs W werent  happy about  providing  more financial information and thought Santander 
should consider  an application based on the information theyd given it previously.
Theyre also unhappy they missed out on the house they wanted to buy, and theyve been 
paying rent at a significantly higher rate than theyd have been paying if theyd been  allowed 
to port their mortgage. They think Santander  should  compensate them for that.
 
Since it hasnt been possible for the dispute to be resolved, Ive considered the complaint 
afresh to come  to a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S and Mrs W took the five-year interest rate product in around August 2013,  the 
offer explained an ERC would be payable if the loan was repaid during the fixed  term period. 
It also set out that if Mr S and Mrs W moved house, they may be able to transfer the 
mortgage to another property as long as they met the mortgage  conditions. It would only 
have been possible  for Mr S and Mrs W to have taken the interest rate product with them  to 
a new property if theyd  made a successful application for a new mortgage  for that new 
property. 
Santander had been speaking to Mr S from around  February 2018  about porting the 
mortgage. Santanders records show Santander hadnt formalised an application  for Mr S 
and Mrs W because Santander  thought it was highly  likely an application to port would be 
declined on grounds  it wasnt  affordable  for them. Broadly speaking, this was because they 
couldnt show they had enough income for the mortgage to be affordable for them  and they 
had other  borrowing,  including a significant  unsecured debt.
Santanders argued it couldnt  decide  about lending  to Mr S and Mrs W without  a formal 
application being made. It told them this in its response to their complaint.  I dont  think  the 
response was very clear. Santander said if the risk was increasing,  a full affordability  
assessment would be needed;  based  on the income  Mr S and Mrs W could evidence,  
Santander couldnt support an application  to port; but if porting was on a like for like basis  it 
could make a concession for an existing customer.  I can understand Mr S and Mrs W found 
Santanders position confusing given theyd said they didnt  want to borrow any more  money  
and the LTV would go down. 
I agree  with our investigator its fair to look at whats likely to have happened  if Mr S and 
Mrs W had made a formal application  to port. From  what  Ive seen, it looks as if there  
wouldnt have been any additional borrowing or any other changes that would have affected 
the affordability of the mortgage.  
The relevant  mortgage rules  say Santander  didnt have to carry out a full affordability 
assessment as they werent planning  to make any changes to their mortgage that would 
have affected  affordability.  Even  though Santander  had assessed affordability, I dont think  it 
Ref: DRN01424583would have been fair for them to rely on that assessment as a reason not to allow  them to 
port their mortgage.  Mr S and Mrs W had been maintaining their mortgage payments  and it 
was in their best interests to port the product they had then to avoid having to pay the 
significant ERC of around £45,000.
In the circumstances I dont think Santander should  have told Mr S and Mrs W it was unlikely 
an application to port would succeed  based  on affordability.
Santander let Mr S and Mrs W convert to a new two-year  tracker interest rate product in May 
2018 even though their existing product hadnt  come  to an end. Although they had to pay a 
fee for this, they paid much  lower monthly  payments until they redeemed the mortgage in 
August 2018.  And they avoided paying  the ERC  which would have been payable under the 
previous five-year product. The new product  didnt  have  an ERC and could be transferred to 
new property on similar terms  to the previous product. I think  Santander treated Mr S and 
Mrs W fairly and reasonably in agreeing to this.
Mr S and Mrs W decided  to go ahead and sell their house as theyd been offered a good 
price for it. They redeemed the mortgage  in August 2018 as Ive mentioned. They knew  then 
the position Santander was taking on affordability.
I acknowledge Mr S and Mrs W have been renting for longer than theyd ideally have liked. 
But it was their choice  to go ahead with the sale and to rent a house instead.  They  could 
have stayed in their house  and made  lower  mortgage payments. So, I dont  think its fair to 
ask Santander  to compensate them for the higher rent theyve been paying.
 
I think Santanders offer to consider  a porting application  in line with the terms of the 
redeemed mortgage  now is fair. For the reasons Ive already explained,  I think Santander 
can waive the usual  affordability tests.  But, other than that, Santander is entitled to apply its 
usual lending criteria,  (such as, for example, in relation to the property), provided it does so 
fairly, as this is an application for a new mortgage  and only the interest  rate product would 
be transferred to the new property. 
I think Santanders offer to pay Mr S and Mrs W £250 each as compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused to them by the way theyve been treated is fair and reasonable. 
Bearing everything in mind I uphold Mr S and Mrs Ws complaint.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should
Ref: DRN014245841.Consider an application by Mr S and Mrs W to port the interest rate product taken out 
in May 2018  in relation  to the mortgage  they redeemed in August 2018  to a new 
property in line with the conditions of that mortgage including allowing them six 
months from the date of them  accepting this decision to find a new property; and
2.Pay to Mr S and Mrs W £250 each by way of compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2020.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0142458