K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about  the service they received from U K Insurance  Limited  under  
their travel insurance when Mr J fell ill abroad.
My references to UKI include its agents.
background
Mr and Mrs J have travel insurance with UKI linked to a bank account. Unfortunately Mr J 
had a stroke  on the first day of their weeks holiday with their teenage son. Mr J was taken to 
hospital by ambulance. Mrs J called UKI. 
UKI arranged to get medical information  from the doctor abroad and from Mr Js GP. It said 
the claim was covered.  Mr and Mrs Js son flew home on his own and Mr and Mrs J flew 
home when  his doctor said he was fit to fly. 
While abroad and after they got home Mr and Mrs J complained about the service UKI had 
given them. In particular,  they say there was a lack of communication  and updates, and 
Mrs J felt abandoned abroad while Mr J was ill. 
UKI looked into the complaints. It accepted it hadnt  kept Mrs J updated to begin with, and 
sent a cheque for £200 for the distress  and inconvenience. But in the main it didnt uphold  
her concerns. Mrs J came to us.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and thought UKI had responded fairly to the issues 
that Mrs and Mrs J had raised. So she didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs J asked for someone  
else to review her complaint. She also said shed banked the £200  cheque but it hadnt been 
paid. Our adjudicator asked UKI about this and its said sent Mr and Mrs J a new cheque.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to read about  Mr Js stroke while abroad, and it was understandably a very 
upsetting experience for him and the whole family.  I hope he has recovered since  then. As it 
will always  be stressful  to fall ill abroad, I need to decide whether  UKI responded fairly to 
their request  for assistance or whether it should  do more to resolve  their complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint as I think UKI did respond fairly to the points Mr and Mrs J have 
raised with it. Ive looked at everything  and Ill focus on what  I think  are the central  issues.  
I think UKI was correct to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint  that it failed to keep them 
updated for a number  of days.  It did tell Mrs J that it would need  a medical report  and 
possibly a GPs report as well. But it didnt keep her informed and both Mrs J and a member 
of her family in the UK had to ring many  times  to chase  for a response. I think this caused  
distress at an already  difficult time. But I think UKIs response to say sorry and pay £200 
compensation was fair and reasonable.
On the whole I think UKI did do the work Id expect it to be doing in the background, even 
though Mrs J wasnt kept updated.  It needed a medical report  from Mr Js treating doctor 
Ref: DRN03823392abroad and didnt receive one for a few days.  When it got the report  it quickly decided  it 
would need a GP report. As Ive said it did tell Mrs J that this was a possibility from the 
outset. It arranged to get the GP report reasonably quickly, and was able to confirm  the case 
was covered. I dont  think there was any unreasonable delay. So while it was clear  it should 
have updated  Mrs J, the claim was being  dealt with. 
As is common with this type of situation there were a number of different  parties  involved:  
Mr and Mrs J; the hospital  where Mr J was being treated and his doctors; UKIs assistance  
company and the local agent it had appointed. The local agents role was to check  the 
position with the hospital (speaking the local language where necessary) and to find out the 
treatment Mr J needed and when he was fit to fly home.
There were occasions  where some  confusion arose.  In particular, Mr J was sent for a scan  
by the hospital. But Ive checked and the hospital  didnt arrange  for UKI to guarantee the 
costs first and UKI wasnt aware hed been  sent for the scan  until Mrs J contacted it. Also,  
UKI wanted Mr J to be moved  to a private hospital  if possible and Mrs J had raised  concerns  
about the hospitals standards. 
But unfortunately there wasnt  a private hospital on the island. The clinic where the scan took 
place was private, but there werent any in-patient facilities.  This caused Mr and Mrs J some 
upset and inconvenience. But I dont think it was UKIs fault.  The hospital didnt arrange for 
the costs to be guaranteed when  it arranged for the scans. UKI didnt know  at the time that 
there werent  any private hospital facilities but did look into this. UKI wouldnt be responsible  
for the standards  at the public hospital.  
There was also some confusion about  the arrangements for the flight  home. Mrs J told UKI 
that the treating doctor had said Mr J would  need  to fly home  in business class  seats  with a 
doctor escort. But this information wasnt in the medical report  that the doctor  sent to UKI 
explaining his recommendations for Mr Js travel home. Ive listened  to the calls where UKI 
told Mrs J about this. I think UKI did explain this fairly to Mrs J and she was also trying to 
explain that the doctor had told her something else. I dont think UKI did something wrong 
here but I do understand why Mrs J was upset.
There werent any direct flights available to Mr and Mrs Js nearest airport. I dont think UKI 
was trying to put Mrs J under unfair pressure. But as it was a busy holiday season  with 
limited flights its staff member explained  that UKI needed to book the flights and then get 
medical clearance with the airline. Mrs J wanted  to check  with Mr J  again I can understand 
this. But UKIs concern  was that they might be left abroad for longer if the flights  werent 
booked, and it wouldnt usually be responsible for the costs if the delay  wasnt on its part. It 
was a difficult situation for Mrs J but it wasnt wrong  for UKI to explain its position.
UKI did explain that it would cover  both Mrs Js costs  and their sons if they all remained 
abroad past the original return date. It also said it would cover the extension of their original 
hotel, as Mrs J had indicated shed prefer to stay where she was. Unfortunately  the hotel 
wouldnt accept a direct  payment from the insurance  company, but UKI was right to attempt 
the payment.  
At the end of their journey to the UK Mr and Mrs J were upset that the taxi wasnt waiting  for 
them as expected. Ive checked the records and UKI did arrange the taxi properly. I think it 
wasnt clear to Mr and Mrs J where the taxi driver  was waiting but ultimately I dont think this 
was UKIs  fault. When Mrs J called UKI it quickly contacted the taxi driver and explained 
where he was waiting. 
Ref: DRN03823393UKI has explained that it will consider Mrs Js mobile  phone  costs if she sends it an itemised 
bill. This is fair. Shes said the £25 a day hospital  benefit hasnt covered all her costs  
travelling to the hospital each day (and more  recently shes  said shes not sure if UKI paid 
the hospital benefit). But UKI did offer to arrange  a hotel closer to the hospital. I understand 
from Mrs J that UKI has now paid the £20 a day benefit towards the cost of taxis to visit Mr J. 
Ive asked our investigator to contact UKI to check its paid the hospital benefit.
Mr and Mrs J have raised with us some additional  issues. Weve asked UKI to look into 
these issues:
UKI hasnt paid for their and their sons lost holiday. They  say their holiday was 
effectively cut short when  Mr J had his stroke, as Mrs J spent the remainder of their 
holiday travelling to see him and their son remained at their hotel. 
There is a policy benefit  for a recuperative holiday, which  UKI doesnt seem to have  
offered to Mr and Mrs J. 
As set out above, to check its paid the hospital  benefit to Mr and Mrs J.  
Ive not made any findings on these issues, because UKI must first have the chance to look 
into them  and respond. I hope  UKI can resolve these issues  directly  with Mr and Mrs J. But if 
not then weve explained that Mr and Mrs J can ask us to consider  these issues as a fresh  
complaint. They can contact the investigator theyve been dealing  with about any such  
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that I think U K 
Insurance Limited has already made a reasonable settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 September 2019. 
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0382339