K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained  that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined an accidental 
damage claim  under  his contents  insurance policy and voided the policy (that is, 
cancelled the policy from when it started).
background
Mr P took out his policy on-line through a broker  on 23 April 2013. He made a claim 
to Ageas later that year. Ageas  declined  the claim. It said Mr P had given it incorrect 
information when  he took out the policy. Hed told it he hadnt made  any insurance 
claims in the previous  five years.  Ageas said according to an industry database Mr P  
had made claims in December 2008 and April 2010.
Mr P complained  to Ageas. He said hed told the broker about  his previous claims.  
Ageas said when  it checked with the broker, it was told  that the broker hadnt  had 
any information from Mr P about  any previous claims.
Ageas also said that when Mr P completed  a claim  form in  August 2013 when asked  
about any previous  claims,  he stated Dont believe so  will check  records.
Ageas said that if it had known about  the previous two claims when  Mr P applied  for 
the policy, it wouldnt have offered  a policy  to him. In view of this it cancelled the 
policy from the date it was taken out. That meant the claim  couldnt be  accepted as 
the policy was treated as though it had never existed. Ageas said the broker 
refunded Mr Ps premium.
Mr P complained  to this service.  He said hed checked every point in the policy very 
carefully. He was unhappy that his claim hadnt  been paid  by Ageas and that it 
voided his policy.  He also said hes had to pay more for insurance since  then as a 
result of Ageas voiding his policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer buys or renews an insurance policy,  theyll be asked  various 
questions about  themselves. The insurer uses  the answers  to these questions to 
weigh up the risk of insuring them  or their property. It can be a misrepresentation if 
an answer  given is inaccurate.
Under the terms of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA),  its the duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to the insurer.  Matters to be taken into account in deciding  
whether the consumer  has taken  reasonable care include  how clear, and how 
specific, the insurers questions were . 
Ref: DRN02963512As part of his policy application Mr P was asked whether  he or any member of his 
family or any other persons normally residing  with him had suffered  any loss or 
damage, whether or not subject to an insurance claim, in the last five years. Im 
satisfied this was a clear question.  Mr P answered No.
Mr P said hed entered details of the previous claims online when  applying  for the 
policy and that hed also written  to the broker to tell them  about the earlier claims. 
The broker disputes that Mr P contacted him by telephone or in writing to advise  it of 
previous claims. In view of the fact that later when making a claim, Mr P  told Ageas 
that he didnt believe hed suffered  any previous  household losses, Im not 
persuaded that Mr P has recalled  this correctly.
When the policy  was issued to Mr P by the broker, it sent him a summary of the 
information hed provided at the time of the quote. It warned him  that if any  
information contained in it was incorrect,  it might result in the policy being  invalid  and 
a claim  not paid. It went on to say that if any information was incorrect,  Mr P should 
contact it as soon as possible.  
Mr P has stressed how carefully he checked all the documentation. Im not aware of  
any health reasons why Mr P might not have been able to see  that the information 
hed provided  was wrong. I appreciate that this will come as a severe disappointment  
for Mr P but I cant see that he took reasonable care when answering  the question 
about previous losses/claims.
Its for Ageas  to show that, had it been  told about the two previous claims, it wouldnt  
have issued the policy in the first place. Ive seen Ageas underwriting guidelines  
which confirm  that it didnt accept new customers whod had more than one claim in 
the last five years. That means under CIDRA Ageas was entitled to void the policy  
and refund the premium. I dont think it has treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably  in 
doing that.
Im sorry  that Mr P has had to pay more for insurance since  having his policy 
cancelled but I dont  think thats  the fault of Ageas.
my final decision 
For the reasons explained above  I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0296351