K820x#14Complaint
Mrs G complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim 
under her home insurance  policy.
Background
Mrs G has a home insurance policy with Liverpool  Victoria (LV).
In November 2017, her house was burgled  whilst  her adult daughter was at home. No other 
members of the family were at home at the time.
Mrs Gs daughter says she was held at knife point whilst the intruders searched the property. 
A number  of items were stolen  and a number were  damaged  during the hurried and 
seemingly violent search of the property.
The Police attended the scene after the perpetrators had left, but have been  unable to solve  
the crime.
Mrs G made  a claim under  her home  insurance for the stolen or damaged items. The total 
amount claimed  was over £30,000.
LVs loss adjustor  visited the home  in January 2018  and interviewed  members of the family, 
including Mrs Gs daughter. Mrs G says the interview was unnecessarily long, intimidating and 
unfair. She thinks the loss adjustor discriminated against the family on the basis  of their race.
Mrs G complained to LV and asked that they appoint someone else to assess  the claim. LV 
said they wouldnt replace their loss adjustor and denied theyd acted unfairly in their 
handling of the claim.  
Mrs G complained to us in May 2018. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think  LV had 
done anything  wrong. 
Mrs G disagreed and so this complaint has been  referred for a final decision  from an 
ombudsman. 
Mrs G maintains LVs handling of the claim has been unfair,  unreasonably delayed  and 
discriminatory.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G has made a further complaint about  the renewal of her policy  with LV. That was raised 
some time after her initial complaint and its being dealt with separately. Just to be clear, Im 
not considering  the later complaint in making  this decision. 
We have a recording of the interview carried out by the loss adjustor in January 2018.  I can 
appreciate that Mrs Gs family found  it long and traumatic  given what theyd been through 
and the fact they were asked to re-visit the events in detail.
Ref: DRN01702222However, I cant agree that the loss adjustor acted unfairly or unreasonably - or that there 
was any discrimination against Mrs G and her family. The questions he asked were relevant 
and clearly intended to establish  a detailed narrative of what had happened on the day.
I can see that it would have been upsetting, particularly for Mrs Gs daughter. But this was a 
relatively high value claim and the list of damaged or stolen items was long. LV were 
entitled, in those circumstances, to ask their customer (and her family) to provide sufficient 
information to validate the claim.  Im satisfied thats  what the interview  in January 2018 was 
intended to do. 
The claim handling then stalled because Mrs G didnt want  anything more to do with LVs 
loss adjustor - who LV wouldnt  replace - and because  LV wanted to inspect several  
electrical items that were alleged to have  been damaged during the burglary.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for LV to want to inspect the electrical items in question. 
Again, they are entitled to carry out investigations  to validate the loss being claimed by their 
customer.
Mrs G wasnt  happy that the independent  company who were to carry out the inspection  
were effectively appointed by the loss adjustor  who she thought was biased  against her. 
And she wasnt happy they wanted to take the electrical items away for inspection  in 
workshop conditions.
Again, I cant  say it was unfair or unreasonable for LV to want to use that company, or to 
follow their usual procedure of taking the items  away for inspection. Theyve explained that 
there was no facility for the inspection to take place at Mrs Gs home. And theyve pointed 
out that because an internal inspection of some items was needed, this was best carried  out 
in controlled conditions to avoid further damage.
Eventually, our investigator managed to resolve  the impasse that had developed by asking 
LV to accept independent expert reports to be commissioned by Mrs G but paid for by LV  
assuming they found the damage was consistent  with the reported incident and wasnt  due 
to wear and tear or mechanical failure.
I should point  out that LV have now accepted and paid for the independent reports.  And on 
the basis of those reports, theyve agreed  to settle  the claim. 
It seems  to me then that Mrs G cant have any complaint about the outcome of the claim 
handling. But shes been  clear that shes still concerned the claim was handled unfairly and 
that the delays  were  unnecessary  the claim being  settled  around two years after the 
incident.
Ive already explained why I think the investigations  carried out by LV werent unreasonable 
or unfair. I dont think they can be blamed for the delays either. Ill explain why.
Throughout the process, LV have  been clear with Mrs G about what  needed to happen to 
move the claim along. Mrs G wasnt happy  with what was proposed, but I cant  blame  LV for 
that. As I say, I think what they were asking  was entirely reasonable.
Any flexibility  to allow the impasse to be resolved has been on LVs part. Theyve  agreed to 
accept an independent IT experts report on the laptop which  formed  part of the claim, rather  
than insist on inspection  by their own contractors. 
Ref: DRN01702223And with respect  to the other electrical  items, they set out Mrs Gs options to include an 
inspection by their own contractors (as originally envisaged) or an independent inspection 
and report commissioned by Mrs G. The latter option  which wasnt  LVs original  preference  
 allowed  the deadlock to be broken and the claim resolved.
In summary,  LV have agreed to settle  Mrs Gs claim  and paid for the independent expert  
reports. Theres no evidence to suggest they acted unfairly  or in a discriminatory way  
towards Mrs G or her family. LV went outside  their normal process to resolve the issues  
which were causing  the hold-up. And the delays wouldnt have occurred if Mrs G had 
complied with reasonable requests from LV to inspect the damaged  items.  
So, Im not going  to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Im satisfied  LV have done nothing  wrong  in 
the way theyve handled her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0170222