K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) were wrong to 
reject a chargeback  request and should  have refunded money paid for a hotel room that he 
says was misrepresented to him.
background
Mr A made a hotel  booking in October 2018  through an on line travel agent Ill call L. He 
paid using his AMEX credit card. 
When he got to the hotel  he was very disappointed  with the rooms  they offered him. He said 
they were unhygienic and unclean. 
So he contacted L and complained. He said the hotel had been misrepresented  on their 
website but L explained that the hotel didnt  accept the refund request and that the hotel 
booking was non-refundable. They offered Mr A a 10% rebate but he was dissatisfied with 
their response and therefore  contacted  AMEX.
AMEX considered whether to raise a chargeback request but decided there was insufficient 
evidence to do so successfully. They didnt think the grounds for the refund request  would  be 
sufficient as they noted the view about  whether the accommodation was satisfactory was 
subjective and the booking was clearly non-refundable. They  sent Mr A some paperwork so 
that he could raise a complaint under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act (section  75) 
with them.  But they didnt receive this back and therefore didnt consider the section  75 
claim. 
Mr A referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided  her opinion. She 
thought AMEXs decision, not to raise  a chargeback request, was reasonable as she thought 
it likely  the hotel would have successfully defended the claim.  She went on to consider 
whether a claim under section 75 could have  succeeded. She explained that in order for that 
to happen there would have had to have been a valid relationship between the debtor 
(Mr A), the creditor  (AMEX)  and the supplier  (the hotel). But as this booking had been made 
through an on line travel agent the chain  was broken and a claim would not be successful. 
So, overall, the investigator didnt think AMEX had been unreasonable when rejecting Mr As 
claim and she didnt  think it would  be fair to ask them to take any further action.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators view and he therefore asked  for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr A so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN00152082Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under a chargeback or section 75 claim. I take 
this into account  when I think about whats a fair way to resolve  the complaint but I dont 
have to reach the same view as, for example,  a court might reach if Mr A made  a claim 
through them for breach  of contract  or misrepresentation.
chargeback
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes  are resolved between 
card issuers  and merchants, under the relevant  card scheme  rules.  
What this means here is that AMEX  can in some circumstances  ask for a transaction  to be 
reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services supplied by the merchant Mr A paid.
But the chargeback process  doesnt give consumers legal rights  and it isnt guaranteed to 
result in a refund. It all depends on what the merchant says in response  to the request the 
bank submits. 
Its important to note that chargebacks are decided  based on the card scheme's rules, not 
the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. AMEXs role is to raise the appropriate 
chargeback, and consider whether any filed defence  complies with the relevant chargeback 
rules. From what  Ive seen, AMEX considered that a chargeback would  not be successful as 
the transaction was non-refundable  and the grounds were subjective.  
I cant say AMEX therefore did anything wrong. They considered  the chargeback but 
decided that the merchants defence would lead to a successful defence  and therefore  didnt 
proceed with it. I think that was, in these circumstances,  a reasonable action to take.
section 75
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
One of those circumstances is that there  must be a valid debtor, creditor, supplier 
relationship. AMEX, who are the creditor here,  have  to have a relationship with Mr A (which 
they do) and the hotel (the supplier, which  they dont). AMEXs  relationship  is with the on line 
travel agent  who took and processed the money.  In those  circumstances a successful claim 
under section 75 could not be made.
So, overall, I dont  think AMEX have been unreasonable here and Im not asking them  to 
take any further action.
Ref: DRN00152083my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0015208