K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc should refund  charges on their business  
account from the date their account  was opened.  
background
Mr and Mrs H had a business  account with HSBC.  In 2018 they received a letter saying 
HSBC had reviewed  management charges from 2008 to 2015 and they were  due a refund of 
about £86. Mr and Mrs H say that as HSBC has accepted it was overcharging,  it should  
refund management  charges applied to their account before 2008.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said HSBC 
made a business  decision  to review  fees applied during  a particular period. HSBC said the 
fees were applicable at the time, but market practice had changed and it wanted to reflect 
this. HSBC had made a commercial decision about  the dates for the review, as it was 
entitled to do.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. They said the dates chosen by HSBC  were arbitrary and were  
intended to limit HSBCs  exposure. Mr and Mrs H said HSBC  had admitted  it had done  
wrong and it was logical that the review  was extended over the period the account was 
open. Otherwise, they were potentially left worse  off.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs H in 2018. It said it had reviewed certain management fees 
applied between 2008 and 2015. The letter said While these fees were  valid at the time they 
were charged, we recognise that market practices have changed and have taken into 
consideration whether such fees were  applied appropriately. As a result  of this review,  were 
refunding certain  fees applied during this period.
The letter said Mr and Mrs H would  receive  a refund  of £50 plus interest.  
HSBCs letter doesnt say it wasnt entitled to apply these fees  it says they were  valid at 
the time.  HSBC says the refund is essentially a gesture of goodwill. I havent  received 
evidence that HSBC applied fees to Mr and Mrs Hs account incorrectly. I dont think its 
reasonable to say that because HSBC  refunded  some fees applied between  2008 and 2015 
it must  also refund fees applied during other periods.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0097674