K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard closed his account  and 
registered a default on his credit  file before the date it said it would.
background
Mr Z says he got into financial difficulties in 2018. He says he received a letter  from 
Barclaycard in February 2019 telling him his account would default in 28 days. Mr Z says he 
got in touch with Barclaycard and it told him he had until the end of April 2019 to sort his 
account out. He says he then received a letter from Barclaycard in early April 2019 telling 
him that his account had been  closed and a default had been registered  on his credit  file. 
Mr Z would like the default removed and compensation of about £10,000 paid to him.
Barclaycard accepts it gave Mr Z misleading  information and has apologised and offered him 
£75 compensation.  It accepts telling Mr Z he had until the end of April to sort out the account 
but says it then sent him the correct details that the account would close  in March  2019. 
Barclaycard says it was aware of Mr Zs circumstances  and tried to help him by putting  his 
account on hold and asking him to provide details of his income  and expenditure. It also 
says it provided details of its specialist team  that could have helped him as well as details of 
other agencies.
Mr Z brought  his complaint to us but our investigator  thought Barclaycard had dealt fairly 
with the complaint. The investigator accepted Mr Z had been given misleading information  
but that Barclaycard had corrected the mistake. The investigator didnt think in any event 
there was any evidence that suggested  that Mr Z could  have  avoided  the account being 
closed and a default registered  in any event.
Mr Z doesnt accept that view and says he made  an offer to clear  the outstanding  balance 
and could have  paid the arrears if Barclaycard had allowed the time it said it would.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr Z will be disappointed by 
my and I make clear  to him that I understand his frustration in being given conflicting  
information.
Ive looked at Barclaycards records and can see that Mr Z told it in October 2018 that he 
was in financial difficulties. I think at that stage  Barclaycard acted fairly by agreeing  to place 
Mr Zs account  on hold which meant  he was no longer charged interest or fees. I also think 
that meant  Mr Z could  deal with his personal  circumstances  at that time. But I can also see 
that Barclaycard  asked  Mr Z for details  of his income and expenditure so that it could try and 
help him and I cant see that Mr Z ever provided  those  details  despite  a number of requests 
by Barclaycard.
There is no real dispute  here that Barclaycard in early 2019 gave Mr Z notice in line with the 
account terms and conditions that it intended to close his account  and register a default  on 
his credit file. I accept that Mr Z was then given  conflicting  information and told he had until 
the end of April 2019 to bring the account  back in order. But Im satisfied that Mr Z was then 
told by Barclaycard what the correct date was for the account to close.
Ref: DRN00309882So I accept  in those  circumstances  Mr Z would have been frustrated by the information 
Barclaycard sent him and I think it fair that Barclaycard  pay compensation to Mr Z for that. 
Im satisfied Barclaycard  has made a fair and reasonable offer of £75 compensation which I 
think takes into account the level of its mistake and that I dont  think it had a significant 
impact on Mr Z.
I appreciate that Mr Z says that he could  have either  cleared the arrears or made 
Barclaycard an offer to repay his debt in full if hed been given the time he believed he had. 
But, whilst Im sorry to disagree with Mr Z, I dont think that even if he had been  given  more  
time that would have  made any difference. I say that as I can see that Mr Z was unable  to 
make any monthly repayments for some seven  months and his offer to repay Barclaycard 
£900 in full and final settlement of a debt of over £4,000  had been  rejected by Barclaycard. I 
can also see that Mr Z told Barclaycard  that he couldnt commit to a monthly  repayment.  And 
I dont think Barclaycard would have accepted either a monthly repayment plan or a full and 
final settlement figure without Mr Zs income  and expenditure details which,  as I have said,  I 
dont think were ever provided.
Banks and building societies should treat cases of financial  hardship positively and 
sympathetically. Im satisfied Barclaycard has acted in such  a way here. I can see that it 
fairly agreed  to place  the account  on hold and provided Mr Z with details of its specialist 
team that could  have helped him. I can also see that Barclaycard gave Mr Z details of other  
organisations that could have provided  him with support  and help.
Overall I accept Barclaycard gave  Mr Z misleading information. But Im satisfied that its 
made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation. I appreciate that Mr Z may not wish to 
accept it and so I will leave it to him to decide. For the reasons Ive explained I dont think 
that mistake means Barclaycard should remove the default from Mr Zs credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK Plc trading as Barclaycard has made  a fair and 
reasonable offer of £75 compensation. Mr Zs acceptance of that offer would  be in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0030988