K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Ms L. FICL  didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1995 alongside a store credit account. Ms L 
was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account  in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Ms L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Ms L has said, but Ive decided  not to uphold  her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
The form, which Ms L signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, and a box has been  ticked  to 
confirm she wanted  the PPI. 
Ms L has pointed that the box could have been ticked  after she signed the form, but she 
hasnt given us any evidence that suggests this was the case.  Other details relevant to Ms L 
and the purchase  she was making,  including her bank account details were  filled in at the 
time. I think it more likely than not the box was ticked at the same time.  
Ms L has said the PPI wasnt explained  properly. It doesnt seem that FICL recommended 
the PPI as being particularly suitable for Ms Ls individual needs. This means it didnt have to 
check if the PPI fitted her circumstances.  It would have been  for Ms L to decide  whether it 
was suitable.
However FICL did need to give Ms L clear and fair information, so she could make  an 
informed choice. And Im not sure that it did do this properly  at least  the information  on the 
form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what, if any, other  information  was given to 
Ms L. So Ive thought  about whether better information is likely to have  made a difference. 
But given Ms Ls circumstances at the time,  even  if shed  been given all the necessary 
information, I dont  think its likely  to have made  a difference to her decision.  
I say this because  its seems the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer 
sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy 
pay. And she could  have  kept in reserve any other means she had for meeting her living 
costs and debts.  So the PPI is likely still to have  seemed potentially  useful. Also it doesnt 
look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  
Ref: DRN09444652my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0944465