K821x#15complaint
Miss H and Mr A complain about Santander UK Plcs handling of their application to port
their mortgage. Theyre unhappy that due to the time Santander took to process their
application, they werent eligible for a refund of their Early Repayment Charge (ERC).
background
Miss H and Mr A redeemed their mortgage with Santander on 26 January 2018. On 
19 March 2018,  they applied to port their Santander product to a new house.  Their  
application was initially declined, but once Santander received more information about  
Mr As income they accepted the application  and issued a mortgage offer on 12 April 2018.
Miss H and Mr A paid an ERC of £2991.97  when  they redeemed  their mortgage in 
January 2018.  They  were  applying to port with Santander  because if this completed  within  
90 days of redemption, Santander would refund their ERC.
The purchase didnt  complete within the 90-day window and so Miss H and Mr A chose 
to take a mortgage with another bank. Santander didnt refund the ERC. Miss H and Mr A 
completed on their new house purchase on 14 June 2018.
Miss H and Mr A complained to Santander  about  the time taken to process  their application. 
They didnt feel Santander  had been clear  about  the 90-day window when theyd asked. 
And said that if theyd known they werent going to get their ERC refunded, they would have 
continued their application  with another  bank rather than wasting time with Santander.
Santander explained that they had issued their mortgage offer well within their normal 
timescales and so werent responsible  for the mortgage not completing  in the 90-day 
window.
Miss H and Mr A brought  their complaint  to us and our investigator looked into things.  
Following our involvement, Santander agreed  to refund the valuation  fee that Miss H and 
Mr A had paid before withdrawing  their application,  minus the £90 cancellation fee. They  
also offered to pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused during  the 
application process, due to poor service. In her final view, our investigator  agreed this 
was fair.
Miss H and Mr A disagreed so the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 1 May 2019. This is what I said:
Santanders policy states that in order for an ERC  to be refunded, where a mortgage is being  
ported, the purchase must complete  within 90 days of the original mortgage being redeemed.  
Miss H and Mr A redeemed their mortgage on 26 January 2018. So in order to qualify for a 
refund of their ERC, they needed  to complete on a new mortgage before 26 April 2018.
Miss H and Mr A didnt  start their porting application until 19 March 2018, so this left them  
five weeks to complete  on the purchase  if they wanted their ERC refunded. Miss H and 
Mr A say that if it hadnt been for Santanders delays, they would have completed  in time 
and qualified  for a refund  of their ERC.
Ref: DRN09539362Santander have  agreed their customer service could have been better at the start of the 
process. Looking at the application process,  Im satisfied Santander didnt move things 
as quickly as they could have. It seems the initial  application submitted on 19 March was 
declined due to a concern over affordability  of the mortgage. The mortgage advisor then 
appealed this but requested information from Mr A to support  his income, which  Mr A
needed to get from his accountant. As a result, the application wasnt approved until 
12 April 2019  after being  referred  to Santanders  underwriting team  twice.
I appreciate there had been a change in the structure of the business  that Mr A was a 
director of in the year leading up to the application. But he confirmed what his income was 
to the mortgage  advisor,  who was happy to proceed  with the application  on that basis. I 
understand that Miss H and Mr A had to complete  an application for this mortgage,  and as a 
responsible lender, Santander needed  to satisfy themselves that Miss H and Mr A could 
afford the mortgage  they were agreeing to. However, this was not a brand new mortgage 
application, this was an application to port their existing product to a new property  with the 
balance and term remaining the same. Considering  the loan to value and the history of 
Miss H and Mr As existing mortgage  account, Im satisfied  that this porting application was 
relatively low risk.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) rules for mortgage lending  allow  lenders to set 
aside affordability  checks  for existing borrowers  who arent borrowing more money  as 
was the case  here. They  do not say a lender has to set them aside, but they can use their 
discretion to do so. Looking at Miss H and Mr As particular circumstances, Im satisfied 
Santander should have used this discretion  and set aside  their affordability checks here.
I appreciate that Santander have said that its their policy to complete an affordability  check 
where the application is made after the mortgage is redeemed.  But Im not satisfied this is 
fair. Whether  Miss H and Mr A applied  for their mortgage before 26 January 2019, or later 
within the 90-day  porting window  this is an application to port, and therefore should have 
been considered as such. The rules apply to a new mortgage entered  into to replace an 
existing mortgage,  just as much  as they apply  to a change to an existing mortgage. As a 
result, I dont  consider it was necessary to request all of the information about Mr As 
income that Santander did ask for, and Im satisfied this would have resulted in some 
inconvenience for him and Miss H. Because of this, Im persuaded that Santander should 
pay Miss H and Mr A an additional  £150 to that already offered to compensate  for this. 
Whilst I agree that Santander could have handled the application better, Im still satisfied this 
isnt the reason the purchase didnt complete within the 90-day window. Santander have said 
their average turnaround times for mortgage applications are six to eight weeks, so even if 
everything went through as quickly as it could have   it was never guaranteed that Miss H 
and Mr A would have received the mortgage offer within that five-week window they had. Im 
aware from my knowledge  of the mortgage  industry that six to eight weeks is a standard  
timeframe for a straightforward  mortgage  application. And even after the offer was sent, the 
conveyancing process would  still have  added to the time needed to complete.
Miss H and Mr A pursued their application  with Santander until the end of April, when they 
decided to go with another lender. But the mortgage  didnt  complete until 14 June 2019. So 
it still took over six weeks for the whole process  to go through,  and that was after the new 
lender had already given them a mortgage in principle and started a valuation.  It seems the 
solicitor had some questions about the new property, which needed investigating.  So I think  
allowing five weeks from application to completion would never have been sufficient for 
everything to go through in time,  even  if Santander  hadnt asked for the extra  information
Ref: DRN09539363that it did. Therefore, I dont think it would be fair to say that Santander are responsible 
for the fact that Miss H and Mr A werent entitled to a refund of their ERC.
Miss H and Mr A have  said that if theyd known earlier that they never would have got their 
ERC back,  they would  have pursued  their application with a different lender earlier, 
instead of wasting their time. Theyve  made it clear that the main reason they wanted to 
keep their mortgage with Santander was to get a refund  of their ERC, as theyd found  a 
cheaper deal with another lender. From listening to the calls between Miss H, Mr A and 
Santander  Im satisfied  this was the case, and that Santander were aware of their 
priorities and time pressures.
On 6 April 2018,  Miss H spoke to a manager at Santander and asked him specifically what 
would happen  if they didnt complete within the 90-day window. The manager didnt give 
any assurances either way, and Im satisfied he should have been clearer  and explained 
that the refund wouldnt be made.  Given everything that Miss H and Mr A had said up until 
that point, and the fact theyd got a more  preferable agreement in principle from another  
lender, Im persuaded  that if they knew then that they werent going to get their ERC 
refunded, they would have withdrawn their application and gone ahead  with the other  
lender. Santander  have  offered to refund their valuation costs (minus the cancellation fee) 
because of this, and Im satisfied this is fair.
So considering everything,  whilst  I think Santander  could have handled things better 
here, Im satisfied this isnt the reason that Miss H and Mr A havent received  a refund of 
their ERC.
responses to my provisional  decision
Santander accepted my provisional decision.
Miss H responded  and said, in summary:
Santander wasted  three and a half weeks during the application process. Without this 
delay they definitely  would have  been able to complete before 26 April 2018.
Santanders customer service  was unacceptable.
Santander had access to their current accounts  and their previous mortgage 
payment history,  which showed  they were in a positive position.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the submissions made by both 
parties in response  to my provisional  decision. Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.
I appreciate Miss H and Mr A remain unhappy  with how Santander have handled things, and 
Ive agreed they could  have handled the application  better. Ive awarded a total of £300  for 
the distress and inconvenience  this caused and Im satisfied this is a fair award given the 
circumstances.
Miss H has not said anything new in regards to the timescales involved, and whilst she feels 
the delays caused by Santander are the reason they missed the 90-day window, Ive 
explained why Im satisfied this isnt the case.
Ref: DRN09539364As a result, my decision remains the same and I uphold this complaint in part.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, and instruct Santander UK Plc to:
refund the valuation  cost (minus the cancellation  fee).
pay 8% simple interest* on this amount, calculated from 6 April 2018  to the date of 
settlement.
pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If Santander UK Plc considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss H and 
Mr A how much its taken off. It should  also give Miss H and Mr A a certificate showing this if 
they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H and Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2019.  
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0953936