K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc (which Ill call Tesco Bank)  recorded 
incorrect financial information about him when  applications were made in his name.  He says 
he didnt apply for any accounts  with Tesco Bank.
background
Tesco Bank says that Mr G applied for a credit card in October 2015 and for a personal  
current account in January  2017.  Neither application was accepted, but Mr G says that 
Tesco Bank recorded information on his credit file as a result. He says this is wrong,  
because the applications were made by someone  pretending  to be him. 
Tesco Bank believes that Mr G made  the applications himself, and so it hasnt treated him 
unfairly. Mr G referred the matter  to this service,  and one of our adjudicators  considered it. 
He agreed with the bank, however, that it was more  likely than not that Mr G had made the 
applications. He noted that the contact details  provided were the same as those this service 
had been given when Mr G had referred other  complaints to us. He also noted that Mr G 
hadnt provided copies of the credit information he was seeking to have removed. 
Mr G didnt agree with the adjudicators  assessment and asked that an ombudsman  review 
the case.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to broadly the 
same conclusions as the adjudicator did, and for similar reasons.
As the adjudicator noted, the applications  were  made using different addresses  and mobile 
phone numbers. But they were addresses and phone numbers that Mr G has used when 
referring complaints  to this service. 
I note as well that the applications were for a credit card and a current account. Had the 
credit card application been  successful, the card and all the paperwork would have been  
sent to Mr Gs address.  Its unlikely  therefore that a fraudster would have been able to 
benefit from opening an account in Mr Gs name. This was not a case where  credit  was 
made immediately available or where goods or services were supplied to a fraudster. 
I make  the same  comment in respect of the current account. Any paperwork and cards  
associated with it  and needed to set up and operate  the account  would have been sent 
to Mr Gs home address.  The account  would still have required funding, and its unlikely a 
fraudster would have  been able to gain any benefit. 
As I indicated, Mr G didnt provide copies of his credit file, so Im unable to say that Tesco  
Bank has recorded any incorrect information about him. Im satisfied, on balance,  that he 
probably did make the applications and so I see no reason to require Tesco Bank  to make 
any changes.  
Ref: DRN08520902my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Tesco Personal Finance plc to take any steps to 
resolve Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 6 January  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0852090