K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc is unfairly  relying on unclear policy  documents  to 
limit his contents cover.
background
Mr P has home insurance which  is underwritten  by AXA. This means AXA is responsible  for 
any claims, and the policy terms and conditions that apply.
Mr P suffered  a fire at his home and made  a claim. During the claim he was told his contents 
were insured  for £75,000.  But he says he understood  his contents to be insured for 
£150,000.
Mr P points towards the endorsement sections of his policy  schedule and policy booklet. On 
his schedule theres a section  titled:  endorsements  that apply to this policy   and in this 
section it states: 
Endorsements are the changes to the terms of your policy.  Please refer to the 
endorsement section  of your policy booklet for full details. 
In the endorsement section of the policy booklet  eleven endorsements are shown numbered 
E01 to E11. The final one is titled:  increased  contents cover  and it states:  
The following amendments are applicable to your policy.  The General Conditions 
section of your policy booklet  is amended from £75,000 to £150,000 for your contents 
cover.
However, AXA says although  there are endorsements detailed  in the policy  booklet,  none of 
them apply to Mr Ps policy as they are not listed on his policy  schedule.  It also highlights  the 
contents section  of the schedule which shows a figure of £75,000, along with the following 
explanation: 
Your  contents sum assured must be enough  to cover the full replacement  cost of all 
your contents as new. If you make a claim and the sum insured  for contents is not 
enough we will only be able to settle claims at the percentage you are insured for. 
For example if the contents sum insured  only represents 70% of the full replacement  
value then we will not pay more than 70% of your claim.
AXA also points towards similar explanations in the policy booklet  in the significant policy  
exclusions and limitations section. It also says, prior to the claim, it wasnt  informed that 
Mr Ps contents exceeded £75,000   highlighting the following general condition in the 
policy booklet:
You must notify us immediately when the full value  of your contents  exceeds 
£75,000. 
At the time the complaint was brought  to us, AXA also explained  that whilst it had been told 
the value of Mr Ps contents exceeds  £75,000, it hadnt been  given the actual value of the 
contents within the premises, or the value of those damaged. So AXA said it hadnt  been 
able to establish the true value and decide whether any deductions should  apply.
Ref: DRN00548552Mr P says if no endorsements applied to his policy, non-applicable should  have been stated 
in the endorsements section of his schedule, noting this phrase was used in other sections. 
He says this ambiguity led him to believe the E11 endorsement applied  and had it not he 
would have increased his contents  cover. He says that without the phrase non-applicable,  
his policy  schedule shows the endorsements  listed in the policy booklet apply. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but he didnt think  it should be upheld. He 
highlighted that there arent any endorsement  numbers listed on the schedule, and at the 
beginning of the endorsement section  in the policy booklet it states:  
An endorsement  only applies if its number is shown  on your current policy  
schedule. 
Overall, whilst our investigator accepted that the policy schedule could have been clearer  by 
using the phrase non-applicable, he didnt  consider the policy documents  to be misleading.  
Because Mr P disagreed,  the complaint has been  referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time Mr P brought  his complaint  to us, AXA was yet to decide the settlement amount 
for the contents  aspect of his claim  and this complaint  doesnt  involve that matter.  So Im 
not considering  the claim settlement here,  Im considering how much Mr Ps contents are 
insured for in view of the policy documents. 
I note that Mr P has also complained about  the sale of the policy, which is the responsibility  
of another business. Our investigator is currently considering that matter,  so I also wont  be 
commenting on that issue.
In respect of this complaint, Ive reached  the same outcome as our investigator  for the same  
reasons. Ill explain  why.
Mr Ps policy  schedule  clearly shows his contents cover  is £75,000,  and theres no mention  
of £150,000 on that document. So whilst  I also agree  the addition  of non-applicable in the 
endorsements section  of the schedule  would be helpful if none apply, I dont consider the 
schedule itself misleads Mr P about  the amount of his contents cover.  
The schedule refers  Mr P to the endorsements section in his policy  booklet  and due to the 
way the E11 endorsement is worded, if read in isolation, I can see how a misunderstanding 
might occur. But Im not persuaded I can reasonably consider the endorsement in isolation, 
without referring to the accompanying  information in that same section. In my opinion,  that 
section makes sufficiently clear an endorsement  only applies if its number is listed in the 
policy schedule  this information is clearly set out right before the endorsements  are 
detailed. Its unfortunate  if Mr P missed the accompanying information, but thats not 
something I can reasonably hold AXA responsible for.
So in conclusion, because  the E11 endorsement is not listed  on Mr Ps policy  schedule Im 
satisfied that his contents cover is £75,000   and Im also persuaded AXA has applied the 
policy terms fairly when concluding  his contents are insured  for this amount. 
Ref: DRN00548553my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P. But for the reasons  explained above, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0054855