K820x#14complaint
Mr Js complaint is about the amount  of compensation Nationwide Building Society  offered  
following a complaint about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  he took out in 2001.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit  share 
Nationwide got due to the PPI. I havent considered  how the policy  was sold because this 
was previously dealt  with in 2014. Ive only looked  at whether the offer Nationwide  has made 
is fair.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Nationwide said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create  an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr J paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mr J for the time he was out of pocket.
Mr J has said he is unhappy with the offer Nationwide has made.  But Nationwide has done 
what the rules it must follow tell it to do.
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Js particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Nationwide should do something different to put right the 
unfairness caused by not telling them about  the amount of commission and profit  share it 
got. But I dont  think there  is. I think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. So I wont  be telling Nationwide to do anything more.
Ref: DRN04407652my final decision
For the reasons  above I think Nationwide Building Society has correctly  worked out what it 
needs to pay Mr J.
Nationwide Building  Society should  update  and pay its offer to Mr J if it hasnt done so 
already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0440765