K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy. 
Background
Mrs Rs PPI policy protected the repayments on a credit card account  which  she opened  in 
1996. Lloyds says it has very little information now available about this PPI sale. So it says it 
cant be sure when  the policy was taken out, although its records  show this must have been 
by May 2000  at the latest. And Lloyds  doesnt  know how the policy was sold to Mrs R, 
although Mrs R says she remembers the policy being taken out in her local bank branch.
Given this uncertainty  over the precise circumstances of this sale,  Lloyds has treated this as 
an advised sale and assumed that the PPI was taken out in branch  when  the credit  card 
account was opened in 1996.
Mrs R says that in 1996 she was employed  as a cleaner and remained with her then 
employer throughout  the period during  which this PPI sale could  have taken place. She has 
told us she was not entitled to any sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying her 
credit card should she have been  unable to work. Mrs R says she was in good health at the 
time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment, together  with life 
insurance  subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It offered  to repay 10% of Mrs Rs credit  
card balance in the event  of a successful claim. Depending on the time of the sale, it cost 
between 59p and 79p per £100  of the monthly  outstanding balance. The premium would 
continue to have  to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest.  Lloyds has 
sent us screenshots to show that the credit  card account closed in 2004.
Mrs Rs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf. I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Rs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs R wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Rs representative 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mrs R about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs R and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and 
Ref: DRN06717542The information Mrs R received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  She 
says she remembers being  told that the policy would cover all reasons for her not being able 
to work, but when  she tried to make  a claim she was told her condition wasnt covered. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs complaint.
This sale took place  before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) published its 
code of practice in June  2000 and before the sale of general insurance  products like this 
became regulated in January 2005.  So, the GISC  Code, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  
Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable  
to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN06717543The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Rs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs R with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs R, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs R suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs R and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Did Mrs R know she had a choice?
Ref: DRN06717544Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Theres very little information  now available from Lloyds about this sale. But that isnt 
particularly surprising given how long ago it took place. And Mrs Rs recollection of the sale 
doesnt seem that vivid or detailed either.  Again, that not surprising as memories of such 
things do tend to fade with time. But this means  I need to decide  what  I think is most likely to 
have happened  based on the little information  I have. 
On balance, and taking account of what I know more  generally about how Lloyds  normally  
sold PPI at around this time on credit cards, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds would 
have made  it clear to Mrs R that the policy was optional and obtained  her agreement to 
taking it. And I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that Lloyds unfairly pressurised 
Mrs R into taking the policy based  on the very limited information  Ive been given.
Did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mrs R say that advice was provided  during this sale,  so Ive taken this to be 
the case. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mrs R with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether  
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs R. It seems  Mrs R cant remember  that clearly  what happened  and 
there is no record of the sales  process which took place. If Mrs R is right in saying  that this 
sale took place  during  a meeting, I cant now know what  the adviser she met said to her at 
the time.  It seems likely that the adviser  would have had some  limited information about 
Mrs Rs financial  circumstances,  but there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Mrs R would have been caught by the significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Mrs R had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Lloyds  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs R given her circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs R, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs R met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs R had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Rs ability  to continue to 
meet her credit card repayments would  have been put under strain if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time.  
-I havent seen  anything to show the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt  affordable.
Ref: DRN06717545-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs R. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Rs employment  or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  And other than standard exclusions in the policy  for conditions such  
as pregnancy, Mrs R hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could have affected her ability  to claim.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mrs Rs 
circumstances and the fact the policy could have cleared her outstanding card 
balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs R sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs R was given a very broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mrs R would have been told this  at the very least   during  the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mrs R would have taken out the policy without  
any sense of what the policy was.
I am also satisfied Mrs R would have realised the policy wasnt free and its likely she would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mrs R 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary 
Mrs R might have  been given, I think its more likely than not that she based her decision  on 
the things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Mrs R, Im not persuaded Lloyds 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mrs R. Im not persuaded that Lloyds gave Mrs R all of the information 
she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Rs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Rs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN06717546-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Rs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs R about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Rs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs R has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss  shortcomings have on Mrs R? To what  extent did Mrs R suffer loss 
or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs R. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs R 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs R 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs R, Ive found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs R has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mrs R would have acted  differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs R says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs R had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
Ref: DRN06717547As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Rs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs R ought  reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But I accept that Lloyds didnt make clear  the on-going cost information.  So, while Mrs R 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs R thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs R knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The likelihood that the policy limited, and in some situations excluded,  unemployment  
cover if Mrs R wasnt a permanent  employee.
The likely requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mrs R pause for thought   and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the 
policy wasnt as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs R from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale appears to show that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for her. She was eligible for its benefits and 
it provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she would  have been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs R didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think she had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs R might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs R 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs R, in her circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs R had known she may only have claimed for disability if she was unable  to do both her 
job and any similar gainful occupation which she might reasonably be qualified  for, it might 
have played into her thinking  about  what she would have done.  And I accept it may have 
given her pause for thought  although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mrs R was unable (through disability) to carry on her own occupation 
Ref: DRN06717548the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs R would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and she didnt have any means of meeting her credit card 
repayments if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness and, she thought,  
redundancy. And in those circumstances I consider it more likely than not that she would 
have taken out the policy in any event.  
Mrs Rs representative says the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs R would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs R 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs R believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs R in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mrs R compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs R thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of  
Ref: DRN06717549Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mrs R, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met at 
that time when providing information  about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Rs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs R and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs R in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2020.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0671754