K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  Mrs W says 
Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  the policy to herself and her late husband Mr W.
Background
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy in 1994 to cover their mortgage repayments.  They  paid 
a monthly amount for the policy. The mortgage  was in joint names  but the PPI policy 
covered only Mr W. The premiums  for the policy were  £11.05  per month. If Mr W could not 
work due to an accident, sickness  or involuntary unemployment the policy  could have paid a 
monthly benefit of £170 for up to 12 months. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy had been  mis-sold. Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been  passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
BoS hasnt been able to show  us any of the original paperwork from the time of the sale.        
I dont find this surprising  as the sale took place so long ago and the mortgage has now 
been redeemed.  But where there is limited information, Ill make  my decision based  on 
whats more likely to have  happened, taking  into account  the evidence  available, what  both 
parties have told me and what  we know about these  types  of sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The PPI was most likely  sold during a meeting. BoS has told us that its representative  
shouldve advised  Mr and Mrs W to take out the PPI to protect  their mortgage. 
From what  we know of how this type of policy was sold I think  its likely  there  wouldve been  
some discussion  of the cover. Its unlikely the PPI couldve been set up without Mr and     
Mrs W signing an application for it and a direct debit  mandate.  The PPI policy  was in force  
for some time and the premiums would have appeared on Mr and Mrs Ws bank statements 
during this time. So if Mr and Mrs W hadnt asked for the policy or didnt want  the cover Id 
expect them to have  questioned it at an early stage. But Ive not seen  any evidence that they 
did. 
Taking all this into account, I think its most likely  BoS made  Mr and Mrs W aware of the PPI 
and that it was optional, and they chose to take it out. Although  I can understand why Mrs W 
wouldnt recall this after so many years.
BoS has said it should have recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. In that case  it had to 
check that the policy was right for them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances 
at the time I think it was.
Ref: DRN04059512The policy provided  cover  for Mr W only. And from what Ive seen he wasnt affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover, so he couldve made  a successful claim if he 
had needed to.
Mr W was self-employed so he would not have received any employer benefits such as sick 
pay if he could not work.  This particular PPI policy couldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 
12 months if he became  too unwell to work. So I think Mr W would have found the policy 
useful if he became unwell, particularly if he couldnt work for an extended period.
Some PPI policies contained terms which made  it difficult  for the self-employed to make a 
claim for unemployment. We dont have  an exact copy of the terms and conditions  for the 
policy sold in 1994. But Ive looked at other  mortgage PPI policies  sold by BoS from around 
that time.  And I can see they provided  cover for the self-employed  and didnt contain any 
terms which would have  made it difficult for Mr W to make a claim. So despite Mr W being  
self-employed I dont  think this made  the policy unsuitable for him. 
Mr and Mrs W had some savings but the PPI policy would also mean  they could use any 
savings they had towards other living costs if things  went wrong.
I dont know what information about  the policy Mr and Mrs W were  given during the meeting. 
So its possible the information BoS gave  them  wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  been. But I 
think they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would have been useful for Mr and Mrs W if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  off 
taking out the policy.  
In summary  I think its most likely  BoS made  it clear  the policy  was optional and Mr and    
Mrs W chose  to take it out. Mr and Mrs W seem to have had a need for the cover and the 
policy looks to have  been right for them. So even if BoS had given them  all the information it 
shouldve, I still think they wouldve  bought  the PPI policy.
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W and Mr Ws
estate.
But BoS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W and Mr Ws estate because:
When the policy was sold,  BoS expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr and Mrs W 
about that. Because BoS didnt tell them, that was unfair.
To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
What BoS needs  to do
BoS has to pay back to Mrs W and Mr Ws estate any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. BoS should also pay any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
Ref: DRN04059513BoS should pay back to Mrs W and Mr Ws estate the extra they paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of 
PPI. BoS should  also pay 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15%  on payments 
before April 1993).
*Businesses have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs W can claim back the tax 
if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay back all of the
cost of the PPI to Mrs W and Mr Ws estate.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back any commission  and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0405951