K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Mr B complain  about additional  losses they say were caused  by an interest  rate 
hedging product  (IRHP)  mis-sold to them  by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
background
Mr A and Mr B, a commercial partnership, invested in property which was rented out to 
provide an income.
In October  2004, they took out a loan with RBS. This was used to refinance  existing  debt 
relating to a property purchase. It was due to be repaid  by the end of September 2005 from 
the sale of property or through refinancing. However, this facility was regularly  extended on 
similar terms.
In December 2004, Mr A and Mr B took out another loan, which  was used to purchase 
another property.  The loan was for 100% of the purchase price. It was due to be repaid over 
a 15 year term.
In 2005, RBS sold Mr A and Mr B an interest rate swap  covering the borrowing for about  ten 
years (I refer to this as the IRHP  below).
In 2006, Mr A and Mr Bs 15-year term loan was moved onto interest-only terms for short 
periods, after which  it was regularly renewed  or extended  similar to the other loan.
In 2009, Mr A and Mr B wanted  to end their partnership. They proposed that Mr A took on 
additional lending  in order  to buy out Mr B. But they couldnt go ahead with this, as RBS 
wouldnt accept their proposals  due to the proposed  loan to Mr A being  interest-only and 
his buy-out of Mr B being  fully funded through the loan.
By the end of 2009, the interest-only facilities had come to an end and RBS was no longer 
willing to continue extending them. RBS asked for the borrowing to be repaid. Mr A and Mr B 
couldnt do so, so the accounts were in default   with over £1.5m  owed. 
In January 2010, RBS transferred the management  of its relationship with Mr A and Mr B to 
its Global Restructuring  Group department (GRG). Mr A and Mr B had regular contact with 
GRG about selling property, potential new loan terms, and ending the swap.
In April 2012, Mr A and Mr B sold one property. And in July 2013 they sold the other. The 
IRHP was cancelled with a break  cost of about  £114,000.
RBS considered the sale of the IRHP as part of the review process it had agreed  with the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). RBS offered basic redress  of about  £250,000 plus 
interest. This was based on Mr A and Mr B taking an alternative swap covering the same  
amount but for a shorter term of about  six years (it would  have  therefore  expired in June 
2011). Mr A and Mr B accepted this offer and made a claim for additional losses they say 
were caused  by the IRHP.
The additional losses  claimed related to losses when selling the properties, including  loss of 
value, loss of rent and the costs  of the sale. Mr A and Mr B also claimed for professional  
fees and the additional  tax liability caused  by the IRHP.
Ref: DRN08624582RBS offered about  £8,000  plus interest.  This covered part of the professional fees. But RBS 
rejected the rest of the claim.  Mr A and Mr B were  unhappy with this offer,  so contacted  the 
ombudsman service.
my findings
I issued a provisional decision saying I wasnt planning to uphold  the complaint. Ive 
incorporated my provisional findings, which remain unchanged,  into this final decision. 
Mr A and Mr B provided further representations  in response to my provisional  decision, but 
RBS did not.
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where I have made factual findings, I 
considered what  the position is more likely than not to have been based on the available 
evidence.
In line with my provisional decision,  I do not uphold  this complaint.
In summary,  I dont think there is sufficient evidence to persuade me that it is more likely 
than not that the existence  of the IRHP (or the additional payments Mr A and Mr B had to 
make under it) is what caused them to have to sell their properties and suffer  the losses they 
are now complaining about.  I think they had to sell the properties because  the loans  theyd 
taken out went  into default in December  2009.  And they were under pressure from RBS to 
repay their debts. I think Mr A and Mr B would have  had to sell the properties to repay their 
debts even if they had taken out the alternative swap  instead.    
I explain my reasons for reaching  this conclusion below. 
As I noted  in my provisional decision, Mr A and Mr B have accepted the basic  redress  
offered. This was based  on them taking the alternative swap for a shorter  term. Because of 
this, I think it is fair and reasonable to consider what wouldve happened if the alternative 
swap had been  taken instead.
December 2009  
I said in my provisional decision that I thought  the need to sell the properties came about 
due to the existing lending  facilities expiring  in December 2009 and RBS not being  willing  to 
renew them. 
In their further representations,  Mr A and Mr B said that I should  have  instead  focused on the 
period between December 2009  and 2012 (when  the first property was sold)  and considered  
whether the events that took place would have been different had the IRHP not been taken 
out.
As I explain below, I have in fact considered  what I think  would most likely  have  happened  if 
Mr A and Mr B had had taken out the alternative swap instead  of the IRHP. 
The point I was making in my provisional decision is that I do not think  the IRHP is what 
caused the loans to default. Indeed, Mr A and Mr B accept  that, even with the alternative 
swap in place, the loans would still have  gone  into default in late 2009.
Ref: DRN08624583As I explained in my provisional decision,  the lending facilities  were  short-term interest-only 
loans. These  were regularly extended  or renewed until December  2009,  when RBS indicated 
it was no longer happy to continue lending to Mr A and Mr B on those terms. That appears to 
have been due to RBS using its commercial judgement that to do so was too risky  
because it was increasingly concerned about Mr A and Mr Bs lack of capacity for 
amortisation of debt (regular fixed  capital repayments) and their ability  to operate  within 
acceptable debt parameters.  It appears that Mr A and Mr B wanted to hold onto the 
properties until the market had improved.  But that the only viable way for them  to repay  or 
reduce the borrowing to levels RBS was comfortable with was to sell some or all of the 
properties. RBS,  although  not happy  with the situation, continued to provide the interest-only 
lending facilities while sales were explored.  Based on the evidence from the time, I think it 
was reasonable  for RBS to take this approach. Mr A and Mr B owed over £1.6million on an 
interest-only basis, had a gross rental income of £114,000 per year,  which was only £16,000  
more than the annual interest that was payable. 
By December 2009, the IRHP  had cost about £4,000  more  than the alternative  swap  Mr A 
and Mr B wouldve  taken  if nothing had gone wrong. I dont think this additional  cost 
wouldve made any difference  to RBSs decision not to renew  or extend  the interest-only  
loans. And Ive found nothing to suggest that the existence of the IRHP was important in 
RBSs decision not to extend or renew  the lending at that time. So, I dont think the IRHP 
caused the lending to need to be repaid in December 2009.  
did the IRHP cause  the sale of properties?
I also said in my provisional decision that the consequential losses Mr A and Mr B are 
claiming for wouldve occurred anyway. That the main cause of those  losses was the 
expiration of the existing  lending facilities in December 2009  and RBS not being willing to 
renew them. This was because, had the loans not gone into default,  I thought  there wouldve 
been little pressure to sell the properties.
In reaching that conclusion, I did think  about the events  between the default of the loans and 
the sale of the properties. But on the evidence I had seen,  I didnt  think  that Mr A and Mr B 
would most  likely have  avoided selling the properties if the alternative swap  was in place 
instead of the IRHP. When I said most likely,  I meant on the balance of probabilities  or more  
likely than not.
In their further representations,  Mr A and Mr B said there was no direct  causal link between 
the loans going into default  and the sale of the properties because: 
The sales happened  over two years after the loans  defaulted;  and
RBS did not insist that Mr A and Mr B sell other secured properties, so it was wrong 
to say there was such a causal  connection.
Instead, they say that they have  shown there  is a greater  likelihood  they would not have had 
to sell the two properties  in April 2012  and July 2013 had the alternative swap been in place. 
They also say that if the alternative swap had been in place, they wouldnt have had to sell 
because they would  have either refinanced the loans with another  lender or simply not 
bowed to RBSs pressure to sell them. 
I consider their further representations below.
Ref: DRN08624584did the IRHP prevent refinancing?
Mr A and Mr B say they wouldnt have refinanced with RBS even with the alternative swap  in 
place  as the terms available wouldnt have  been acceptable to them. But they think they 
wouldve either refinanced  elsewhere  or simply refused to sell the properties. 
In my provisional decision,  I said that I had been provided with an email  from an alternative 
lender confirming they had informal discussions about refinancing the debt around 2010. 
This confirms the discussions  didnt  progress because  the alternative  lender wasnt  willing to 
transfer the IRHP. This was because the total borrowing wasnt  high enough  for the lender to 
agree to a transfer.
I also said I was mindful  that even  if the IRHP hadnt been mis-sold, the alternative swap 
wouldve still been in place at this time. So this may have  presented a similar barrier  to them 
refinancing anyway, even though the break costs of ending  the alternative  swap wouldve 
been lower.
However, I also noted that the email says the maximum  loan to value ratio the alternative 
lender wouldve considered was 65%,  with capital and interest repayments over 15 years.  I 
thought that given the conditions in the property market at the time, Mr A and Mr B may not 
have been able to meet the required  loan to value ratio.
I also noted that it was unknown  what sort of interest rate margin  and level of rental income  
wouldve been required  to make the proposal acceptable to the alternative lender. The 
repayments wouldve  been significantly more given they wouldve included capital 
repayments, rather than just interest.  For these reasons, I didnt think there was sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that it is more  likely  than not this alternative lender would have 
provided refinancing  that would have allowed Mr A and Mr B to keep the properties if it 
wasnt for the existence of the IRHP.
Finally, I noted that Mr A and Mr B provided another email from a financial adviser, 
confirming the financial adviser approached a relationship manager at another  lender, which  
wouldnt offer to refinance with the IRHP in place.  However, no further information was 
provided on what terms mightve been available with that lender. This wouldve depended on 
the amount of borrowing  required, the value of the properties, and the affordability of 
repayments.
I therefore didnt  think I could fairly say it was more likely than not that Mr A and Mr B 
wouldve been able to refinance and keep the properties if the IRHP  hadnt  been mis-sold.
In their further representations,  Mr A and Mr B said (in summary):
As this complaint  involves looking at a hypothetical situation, the best evidence 
possible has been provided. 
The alternative lender  which Mr A and Mr B approached said it was willing  to 
consider the refinance  if there was no interest  rate hedging product covering the 
lending. If the alternative  swap  had been in place,  this wouldve meant  that there 
would have been no interest  rate hedging  product  in place  from June 2011 onwards 
and this wouldve  allowed Mr A and Mr B almost  a year to refinance before  the first 
property was sold in 2012 and two years before the second property was sold in 
2013. 
Ref: DRN08624585Although capital repayments probably wouldve been required under a refinance, the 
alternative lender  had indicated a willingness to provide a 12 month capital 
repayment holiday. 
Its unknown what other requirements any alternative lenders wouldve required.
The alternative lenders loan to value ratio requirement wouldve been  met from 
December 2011 onwards.  Mr A and Mr B say this is the primary lending  criteria, so I 
should conclude  that the debt couldve been  refinanced. 
I have considered Mr As and Mr Bs further  representations but they do not change my view.
I think the evidence  shows the alternative lender might  have  been  willing  to discuss  a 
refinance once the alternative swap had ended. But I dont think there is sufficient evidence 
to persuade me that its more  likely  than not a refinance wouldve gone ahead. 
Lenders generally have  a number of requirements that must be met in order  for a loan to be 
offered. Loan to value ratio is one. But examples of others  include  interest  and debt cover 
ratios which depend  on the interest  rates available at the time, the amount borrowed and the 
rental income the customer  is receiving.  Each lender would  have different requirements  
depending on their appetite for lending, and how risky they considered a lending  proposal to 
be. And those requirements can change at any time. 
I dont think it can be said that if one aspect  the loan to value ratio  was met at one time, 
all others most likely wouldve  been  too, then or at a different time. The alternative lender in 
this case said it would  require capital and interest  repayments. But even if it had offered a 12 
month capital repayment holiday, I think it is likely  they wouldve wanted to be satisfied that 
Mr A and Mr B could meet the capital repayments once they were  required. 
While the alternative swap wouldve ended in 2011,  there isnt sufficient evidence to 
persuade me that its more likely than not that Mr A and Mr B wouldve been able to 
refinance and therefore  retain the properties. 
I appreciate that Mr A and Mr B will be disappointed with this, but there isnt sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that Mr A and Mr B would  more likely than not have been able to 
refinance with another lender had they taken  out the alternative swap  instead (especially 
when its uncertain  what  the alternative  lenders requirements wouldve been and Mr A and 
Mr B have not even  been able to provide me with indicative terms).  
Ref: DRN08624586simply refusing to sell
In their further representations,  Mr A and Mr B also say that they would simply have refused 
to bow to RBS pressure to sell the properties if they had taken out the alternative swap. In 
summary, they say:
Once the alternative swap ended in June 2011, they would have had no ongoing 
payment liabilities  under a hedging product. They would  therefore have had an extra 
£16,000 per quarter to put towards their loan repayments, which would have 
alleviated pressure  from RBS to sell the properties. The break  costs  of the alternative 
swap would also have  been lower.
Similarly, there wouldve  been no contingent  liability in respect of any hedging 
product after June 2011, which wouldve reduced  their perceived credit risk and 
alleviated pressure  from RBS to sell. 
I am not persuaded by these arguments.  Nor do I think  that RBS wouldve accepted  this and 
allowed the facilities to continue indefinitely without significant capital repayments. 
First, Mr A and Mr B had put some property up for sale some time before the mis-sold  IRHP 
became expensive and before the loan terms ended. This was initially because the value of 
the properties had increased since they bought them, and later because selling some of the 
properties was integral  to them ending their partnership and alleviating  RBSs  concerns. So, 
I think the evidence  shows that selling was always on their minds as a potential option.
Secondly, I am not persuaded  that had Mr A and Mr B taken out the alternative swap instead 
of the IRHP, the pressure on them to sell the properties and make  loan repayments would 
have stopped. 
Mr A and Mr B say that if they had taken out the alternative swap,  they would have avoided 
having to make payments of £16,000 per quarter after June 2011 and would have put those 
amounts towards  repaying the loans. However,  their total debts still stood at over £1.5m in 
June 2011. An extra £16,000 per quarter  wouldnt  have had a large impact on the loan to 
value ratio, or ratio of rental income  to debt repayments. It seems  that RBS only allowed the 
situation to go on as long as it did because  Mr A and Mr B had agreed to sell the properties. 
So I dont  think an additional  repayment  of £16,000  per quarter wouldve made a significant 
difference to what happened. 
Having considered Mr A and Mr Bs further comments, Ive decided not to depart from the 
outcome of my provisional decision. 
professional fees
Its unusual for these sorts of costs to be recoverable  under a claim such as this. The review 
process agreed with the FCA was set up to ensure customers received redress  where 
appropriate. The process involved an independent  reviewer whose role was to ensure the 
review was carried out as agreed and that the outcomes and any redress  offered were 
appropriate.
RBS has offered to pay some fees covering legal advice on the basic  redress offer and for 
some transcriptions that were made.  But Mr A and Mr B have claimed additional amounts in 
Ref: DRN08624587relation to making their complaint, primarily for work  done in relation to the consequential 
loss claim.
Mr A and Mr Bs justification for claiming  professional fees appears to be that there had been  
previous litigation  relating  to the IRHP, and RBS insisted on having their legal 
representatives present  at a meeting with them during the review  process.  
I think it is reasonable that Mr A and Mr B would have legal representation  at the meeting 
with RBS  otherwise they may have felt at a significant disadvantage. But the offer made  by 
RBS covers the costs  relating to that meeting, along  with other  costs  relating to the obtaining 
the basic redress offer. 
The offer doesnt  cover  additional costs beyond this. And I think  thats appropriate.  I 
appreciate that Mr A and Mr B may have taken some comfort from having  legal 
representation throughout the review  process RBS had agreed with the FCA. But Im not 
persuaded that it is fair and reasonable for this to be paid for by RBS.
The review  process required them to describe the additional losses they were  claiming, and 
provide supporting evidence of those losses. I think they couldve done that without incurring 
additional fees. And Im not persuaded it is fair and reasonable for their legal fees associated 
with this to be paid for by RBS. 
additional tax liability
RBS said it would consider making  a payment for this upon receipt of the relevant evidence. 
I understand this would be the partnerships and the partners tax returns  covering the tax 
years the IRHP was in place and the tax year the basic  redress  was paid. 
Mr A and Mr B havent provided the necessary  evidence, so, as I said in my provisional 
decision, I dont  think RBS has been unreasonable in its response. Mr A and Mr B have not 
responded on this point  or provided any new information in their further representations, so 
my provisional decision on this stands.
foreseeability of losses
Looking at the foreseeability of the type of losses Mr A and Mr B have claimed would only 
have been necessary if I thought they wouldnt have occurred  but for the mis-sale of the 
IRHP. Accordingly, I do not need to consider this issue.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr A and Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 July 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0862458