K820x#14complaint
Miss P has complained  to the Society of Lloyds  (Lloyds)  about the information she was 
given in relation  to a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy she had with her mortgage. 
Because of a change in her circumstances,  Miss P says she couldnt have satisfied the 
criteria to make a claim. She says she wasnt made aware of this and wants her premiums  
returned to her as she feels  the policy wouldnt have been of any use to her.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 4 June 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I thought 
the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  
I provisionally concluded that Miss P hadnt given Lloyds sufficient information for it to have 
confirmed she would  have  been  considered to be self-employed  under the policy terms after 
she set up her own limited company in 2014.  And further, Miss P was still eligible for the 
policy after she was classified as self-employed. 
Miss P disagreed with my provisional decision and also provided  correspondence I hadnt 
previously seen.
Miss P made two main points. 
One was the new  wording, which appeared in Sesames Annual Review cover letter 
of 23 March 2017. If this had been included in earlier  Annual  Reviews, it would have 
alerted Miss P to her change in status  under the policy terms. 
Miss P also questioned whether  I had been able to consider all of the other 
correspondence on file, including all of her correspondence other  than with Lloyds. 
Lloyds confirmed it didn't have anything  further to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, I quote the wording used in Sesames renewal letter  of 23 March  2017:
In line with the requirements placed  upon  us by the Competition Commission,  we 
are providing you with this Annual Review of your policy.  This is also a useful time to 
review  your cover to ensure the policy is still meeting your needs. For example, if 
your employment circumstances have changed since taking out your policy,  you 
should be aware that the circumstances in which self-employed or contract workers 
can claim unemployment  insurance  benefits differ  from those of other  insured 
customers.
Ref: DRN03279242Lloyds sent a letter in March 2016  with similar wording  but Miss P didn't receive this. She 
has told us that her postman was stealing mail around that time so this may have been the 
reason. Miss P has since been  able to send me a copy. 
Miss Ps view is the introduction of this wording in the Annual Review  letter implies that the 
wording used in previous  Annual Review letters was deficient in some way and needed 
improvement. 
 
The requirement to send Annual  Reviews and statements to policyholders of PPI came  
about because  of the Competition Commissions Payment Protection  Insurance Market  
Investigation Order  2011. 
Miss P says the implication of the change in wording  changed between  2015 and 2016 is 
that the earlier wording  need improvement. And had that wording  been  in the 2015 covering 
letter it would have  alerted Miss P earlier.
After asking Lloyds  about this change  in wording it confirmed that new administrators were 
appointed in late 2015. The wording  used in the Annual Review  letters was the standard 
wording the administrator used. So it was included in the next Annual Review  letter  sent 
which was in March  2016. 
But I think this misses  the point. I concluded in my provisional decision that the definition of  
being self-employed was very clear  from the policy terms. And also that being self-employed 
didn't mean that Miss P wasnt eligible for the policy. 
And as I have said above, as far as I am aware  there wasnt any regulatory  requirement for 
Lloyds to include this wording, it was just a change in administrator. This would mean the 
onus remained with Miss P to inform Lloyds of any change to her circumstances, which  in 
this case were significant. 
I also said that without  Lloyds knowing that Miss P had set up her own limited company, its 
representatives wouldnt have known her status  had changed  according  to the policy  terms. I 
think the new wording  is just an example of what the policyholder should check  for. I dont 
think it was necessarily highlighting  anything different about the policy terms or that 
employment terms had a new or novel issue for consideration. 
And I remain of the view that it was important for Miss P to have explained to Lloyds that her 
employment status, as outlined  in the policy terms, had changed because she had set up 
her own limited company.  And she didn't do this until 2017. So I cannot agree that Lloyds 
made  an incorrect assumption and as a result, provided incomplete  advice when  Miss P 
contacted Lloyds about taking contract  work.
I can confirm that I have reviewed all of the documentation that has been provided  by both 
parties. As explained  in my provisional decision I was aware  Miss P had been dealing  with 
other parties  than just Lloyds in bringing the complaint. But those  other parties acted for 
Lloyds so I only referred to Lloyds in my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Ms Ps complaint. 
Ref: DRN03279243Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03279244copy of provisional decision 
complaint
Miss P has complained  to The Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) about the information  she was given in 
relation to a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  she had with her mortgage. Because  of a 
change in her circumstances,  Miss P says she couldnt have  satisfied the criteria to make a claim.  
She says she wasnt made aware  of this and wants her premiums returned to her as she feels the 
policy wouldnt have  been  of any use to her. 
Miss P has dealt with other companies when dealing  with this complaint.  Those companies  acted  for 
Lloyds. This is why I will refer only to Lloyds in my decision.
background
Miss P had a PPI policy since 2011 with her mortgage. The benefit would  be paid if Miss P made a 
successful claim  for unemployment up to a maximum of 12 months for any one claim.
In 2013 Miss P was made redundant. She successfully  made  a claim  on the policy  and the benefit 
was paid to her from August  2013  to June 2014.
During this time Miss P entered into correspondence  with Lloyds about the employment  terms of the 
policy if she was to take on temporary contract work on a month-by-month basis.  
Miss P took the contract work and as a result, the claim  was closed/suspended.  At this point Miss P 
had been paid benefits  equivalent to just over 10 months of the 12-month period she could claim. 
Miss P subsequently entered into further temporary contracts. 
In July 2014,  Miss P set up her own limited company.
In March 2017, Miss P contacted Lloyds as she potentially needed to continue  with her 2013/2014  
claim. As a result of this contact, Miss P was told she would be considered to be self-employed under  
the policy  terms  since she had set up her own limited  company. Miss P was unhappy with this.
Miss P says that because  of being considered self-employed she didn't think she would be in a 
position to satisfy  the policys conditions  if she had wanted to make a claim. Miss P says she would 
not have carried on with the PPI after she started her limited  company if she had realised this. Miss P 
cancelled her policy.   Miss  P says that she wants  the premiums returned to her from when she says 
she was misinformed. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint  and didn't think it should  be upheld. Miss P disagreed 
and as it remains unresolved,  it has been passed to me for decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P isnt unhappy with the initial  sale of the policy in 2011. After  all, shed been able to make a 
successful claim  in 2013. It was only in 2017, when Miss P may have potentially  had to continue with 
her 2013/2014 claim that it became apparent that she would be treated differently because  of her 
employment status.  That is Lloyds would likely treat her as self-employed because  she had set up her 
own company  and was the sole director. 
Ref: DRN03279245The terms  that applied to the policy in 2011 when Miss P took the PPI stated the following  
self-employment/self-employed
a sole trader, director or partner or a shareholder of 25% or more in a company  which employs you. 
We will also consider you to be self-employed  if you are employed  in a company or business  where  
your husband, wife, partner under a civil partnership,  parent, child, brother or sister meet any of these 
conditions.
I think  the terms applied to Miss Ps changed  circumstances. And these  terms remained  the same  for 
the term Miss P had the policy, even when the underwriter changed  in December 2013. 
At this time the terms for making a claim, for a self-employed policyholder, had to satisfy  the below:  
If you are self-employed,  to claim for unemployment, three conditions apply. You 
need  to:
have  ceased trading because you could  not find enough work  to meet  all your 
reasonable business and living  expenses;
have  declared  the above to HM Revenue & Customs; and
present the Claims Administrators with a copy of your signed  Jobseekers Agreement  
and on-going proof that you are registered as unemployed with the Department for 
Works and Pensions, or provide suitable alternative proof of unemployment.
Miss P was told in 2017  that she would  have been classified as self-employed. But Miss P has said 
she couldnt  have been able to meet the criteria of the policy terms as it would have been impractical 
for her to fulfil all the requirements to make a claim. 
But this doesnt  mean she wasnt eligible  for the policy. As a self-employed person  she still could have 
made a claim.  
Miss P has said that by contacting Lloyds  prior to taking the month-by-month contract work she was 
trying to ensure that the policy  would  remain  suitable  for her. I appreciate the point she has made  and 
it seems clear that this is what she was trying to achieve. Miss P had previously been able to claim  on 
the policy  and was aware of the benefits it could  offer,  so wanted to make  sure it was still right for her 
under different employment terms. 
However, I note that Miss P didn't  immediately  tell Lloyds  about the limited company being set up in 
July 2014  not until around three years after the event according to the correspondence records.  So I 
dont think it would have  been possible for the business to have answered her questions  about the 
terms meanings without having the full facts of her circumstances, which  had changed.  
It is not implicit that by taking month-by-month contract work the policyholder would  have set up a 
limited company. So I cant agree that Lloyds should  have known this, or known to ask this. So I do 
think the onus was on Miss P to have made that clear.  
For Lloyds to have responded to Miss P as she wanted, it was necessary for her to disclose the full 
facts about her change in circumstances  in setting up her own limited company. In the absence of 
that information  I cant see that Lloyds  could have answered any differently than it did. So I cant  
agree Lloyds  is at fault here.
And as confirmed by the policy terms, even with Miss Ps status changing to self-employed, Im of the 
opinion it was quite clear in the terms what being self-employed meant. As Miss P was looking closely 
at those terms when she contacted Lloyds in 2013/2014  I would have expected her to notice them  
and recognise her employment status  as far as the policy  was concerned had changed. And that this 
may have impacted on what would be needed in order for her to have made  a successful claim. 
Ref: DRN03279246But importantly, Miss P was still eligible for the policy after she was classified  as self-employed, so I 
dont agree Lloyds should repay  her the premiums she thinks is due to her. 
my provisional  decision
Because of what I have  explained above,  I provisionally dont think that 
The Society  of Lloyds has done  anything wrong. I wont be asking it to repay the premiums to Miss P. 
Please could  The Society of Lloyds and Miss P send me any more  information  or comments  to look 
at by 4 July 2019. After  that, Ill issue  my final decision. 
Ref: DRN0327924