K822xcomplaint
Ms M complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited did not provide her with information 
when her debt was transferred to it and failed  to respond to requests for information. She 
feels she should get compensation and her credit file should be amended.
background 
Ms M had a debt with a third party who assigned the debt to Link Financial. Ms M has not 
paid this debt as Link Financial did not provide her with the information she requested. It has 
entered a default on her account which she thinks should be removed.
Link financial  wrote  to her explaining that it purchased her debt from a third party.  Ms M 
asked it to provide  evidence  that it had purchased the debt properly  and provide 
documentation. She requested this information  8 times. 
The adjudicator found that the third party did notify  Ms M that it assigned her debt in 2017 and 
future payments should be made to Link Financial.  She was satisfied  these letters had been 
posted to Ms Ms correct  address. 
The adjudicator concluded that the debt was hers was properly sold by the third party and 
properly purchased by Link Financial. She concluded that Link Financial is entitled to pursue 
her for the debt that she owes. As Ms M stopped  making payments for a debt Ms M owes 
and was aware of, she felt that Link Financial was entitled to default  the account  due to the 
arrears accrued. She noted  that Ms M was aware she had an outstanding debt with the third 
party and if she thought Link Financial were not collecting it legitimately she would expect 
her to contact the third party to clarify what had happened. This didnt happen.
The adjudicator did however think that Link Financial had not handled Ms Ms requests  in a 
timely manner. Link Financial agreed  to pay £75 for distress and inconvenience which the 
adjudicator thought was fair and reasonable. 
Ms M is unhappy with this and wants more compensation and her credit file amended.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the adjudicator for the same  
reasons. 
I am satisfied from the documentation that Ms M was aware she had an outstanding  debt 
with a third party.  I note that Ms M says she never  received the letter from the third party  
assigning her debt or any letter that said she should pay Link Financial. On balance,  as the 
letters were sent to her correct address,  I find they were sent. If she had not received 
notification I would have  expected her to contact  the third party to see why she was now 
expected to pay Link Financial, or to carry on paying  the third party.  She did not do this.
It was her debt and properly sold to Link financial. Even though  Ms M was challenging 
whether Link financial  should have her debt, she knew the debt was outstanding and could 
have contacted the third party to ask it to explain  who it sold the debt to. She stopped paying 
the debt, and Link Financial is entitled to record this on her credit  file. It has not done 
anything wrong  by doing this.
Ref: DRN05157662I also agree  that Link Financial could have dealt with Ms M in a timelier manner and agree 
that £75 is fair and reasonable  for the distress this caused.
I would urge Ms M to make arrangements to repay her debt and seek debt advice to do this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Link Financial Outsourcing  Limited    
should pay Ms M £75 compensation  for hurt and upset. (If not already paid). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M anonymised  
name here to accept  or reject my decision before 7 March 2019.
Clare Hockney
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0515766