K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that NRAM Limited mis-sold him a mortgage in 2004  that extended beyond 
his planned retirement age. Mr G says NRAM Limited didnt check  how he would afford  this 
mortgage into retirement and hes now going  to struggle to afford the repayments when he 
retires.
Mr G would like compensation  for the financial loss caused to him by NRAMs actions.
background
In July 2004 Mr G took out a mortgage  with Northern Rock for around £76,000, to be repaid 
over a 25 year term. Mr G also took out an unsecured together loan stapled to his mortgage  
of around £18,000.
In 2005 Mr G borrowed an additional  amount of around £10,000 as a further drawdown  of 
the existing mortgage. Mr G recalls this was to buy the remaining stake in his property which  
had previously been owned  on a shared  ownership  basis.
In 2008 Northern Rock collapsed. Mr Gs mortgage was transferred to NRAM Limited and 
NRAM has taken responsibility  for this complaint,  although the sale was made  by the 
predecessor lender, Northern Rock.
In 2019 Mr G complained  to NRAM. He was approaching retirement age and said he 
realised there was a gap between the end of his income protection policy payments and the 
start of his pension. Mr G said he became aware he was going to struggle to continue to pay 
his mortgage going forward. NRAM gave its final response to the complaint on 18 April 2019.   
In its final response,  NRAM  didnt  address  Mr Gs concerns but said his complaint had been 
brought out of time.
Mr G referred  his complaint to us. Another ombudsman has already issued a decision setting 
out that this complaint has been  brought within our time limits. 
Our investigator explored the merits of this complaint and thought this complaint should be 
upheld. Our investigator  thought NRAM hadnt  undertaken adequate checks  to make sure 
Mr G could afford this mortgage and loan into his retirement. He set out what  he thought  
NRAM should do now to put things right. 
NRAM disagreed. It asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint again and reach a final 
decision on the matter.  NRAM  felt it wasnt fair that our investigator said there  hadnt been  
adequate affordability checks. NRAM said there  was limited evidence available  now because  
the sale was so long ago. And it said its records when the mortgage application was 
processed in 2004 showed that payslips had been looked at and affordability  was 
considered at the time. 
Mr G also disagreed with our investigators  findings. Mr G didnt  consider  the compensation 
awarded to him was high enough, although  he did think it was reasonable that no further  
interest be applied  from November 2019.
Ref: DRN05654152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should  say that I agree with the previous ombudsmans  decision that this is a matter  
that we can investigate now. 
Im conscious of NRAMs reservations  that not all information surrounding  the mortgage 
application is available now. Im mindful  of the passage of time since this mortgage was sold 
in 2004. Ive considered what information  and evidence is available  to me, and Ive reflected 
upon the arguments made by both parties about their recollections of what  happened at the 
time. Ive also thought  about the relevant  regulation, legislation and industry  good  practice  
which applied when  the mortgage was taken out in July 2004. 
At the time Mr G took out this mortgage he says he wasnt  in a good  state  of mind. Hed 
suffered from chronic ill health and this led to Mr G taking a lower paid job than hed 
previously had, and he was receiving regular income through  an income protection policy. 
Mr G was moving to a different property, and he recalls he was initially buying a share in the 
property, on a shared  ownership basis. There is some dispute  about this though as NRAMs 
underwriters do appear  to have asked  for confirmation at the time that Mr G would own 
100% of the property.
The sale of mortgages  and mortgage advice didnt become regulated  until the end of 
October 2004. Mr Gs mortgage was sold before  this date in the summer of 2004. Before 
mortgage regulation lenders could subscribe to the Mortgage Code. NRAM (or rather  the 
predecessor lender) was a signatory of the voluntary  Mortgage  Code,  and as such  had 
volunteered to follow the industry  good  practice  as set out for lenders and brokers within it.
NRAM doesnt appear to have  provided Mr G with mortgage advice in 2004.  Rather  it is 
recorded on the mortgage offer that NRAM provided  Mr G with information  and he decided 
which mortgage he wanted.
While NRAM wasnt advising  Mr G, it still has a duty under the Mortgage Code to lend 
responsibly. The Mortgage Code sets out that all lending will be subject to our assessment 
of your ability to repay. The Mortgage Code also set out some factors  which may be 
included in the affordability assessment. Two factors that would typically  be assessed are 
listed as an applicants income and commitments and another was your  age. I think its fair 
to say that it was good industry practice  at the time for a mortgage  lender to make sure that 
a borrower could repay a mortgage  throughout its term,  and thats why it was important to 
consider the applicants age.
Ive also thought about the lending practices  and policies that NRAM set for itself. NRAM has 
provided us with a copy of Northern Rocks  residential lending policy  (2001). This document 
sets out Northern Rocks  lending policy when Mr Gs mortgage was granted. Section 7 of 
Northern Rocks lending policy says: 
The loan may be extended  beyond the applicants retirement age, provided they have the 
means to support it.
I can see from the notes made  during the processing of the mortgage  application in 2004 
that NRAM asked  for, and received,  payslips  to verify Mr Gs current  income. And theres  
Ref: DRN05654153also a clear written record that it carefully  considered whether it could rely on Mr Gs income 
protection policy to continue  paying out around £10,000 per year. It was noted that NRAM 
would need to be satisfied that this policy was for life. Im persuaded that NRAM took 
reasonable care to satisfy itself that Mr G could afford the mortgage while he was working  
through a combination of his employed  income and his policy payments. 
However, Mr Gs mortgage and together loan extended into typical retirement  age, until he 
reached the age of 75. NRAM has no record that it asked Mr G for any information  about his 
pension arrangements, or that it satisfied itself that he could afford the mortgage and loan to 
the end of the term. It didnt take steps to check whether the policy  actually was for life, 
beyond normal retirement age. In failing to explore whether Mr G could meet  his mortgage 
payments into his retirement,  NRAM didnt follow its own lending criteria, and I consider it fell 
short of good  industry practice  at the time.
what do I think should happen now to put things right?
We typically look to put consumers back in the position they would have  been  in but for a 
business making a mistake.  Its very difficult in complaints such  as this to put Mr G back  in 
the position he would have been  in but for NRAM deciding to grant  him this mortgage many  
years ago. 
Mr G says he wont be able to afford the mortgage  into his retirement and hes accepted that 
he will need  to sell the property. Mr G has also said he thinks he might  be in negative equity 
if he sells his property, and that there may be a shortfall once hes repaid NRAM.
Ive explained  above that Im satisfied that NRAM carried out checks  to establish that, to the 
best of its knowledge, Mr G could afford the mortgage while he was in employment. But it 
should have done more  to check this capital repayment mortgage was affordable  once Mr G 
retired. And so, I think its most important to sort out what happens with this mortgage  now 
Mr Gs income  has fallen  as he approaches retirement- rather than to look back at what has 
been paid over the years that Mr G was working. 
Ive considered that if NRAM  had insisted that Mr G take a shorter mortgage  term, of say 15 
years to when he turned  65, then the monthly repayments would have been  much higher 
and the mortgage might have become unaffordable for Mr G throughout the entire term. But 
thats not to say other options couldnt  have been  explored - such as an interest only 
mortgage, or a part capital  repayment  and part interest only mortgage. However, an interest  
only mortgage would leave Mr H with a higher capital balance to repay  now.
As it is, Mr G says he has struggled at times  to pay the mortgage. And a higher monthly 
repayment might have meant Mr G wouldnt have  been able to purchase a property at all. 
Mr G has queried  why he isnt being given further  compensation. He says if hed put the 
money hes paid to NRAM each month into a saving account he would be far better off now.   
I see the point  that Mr Gs making. However, I also see that Mr G has had the benefit  of this 
property since 2004  and this has meant that from 2004 to at least 2012 Mr G didnt  need  to 
pay rent to live elsewhere. Hes also had the benefit  of rental  income when the property was 
let out and hes been able to help family members by offering them  a place to live. 
Mr G was able to buy this property outright with his NRAM mortgage and loan, removing the 
element of shared ownership. This will presumably  have meant  that he didnt need  to make 
a monthly rental payment  to a landlord or housing association, alongside his mortgage 
Ref: DRN05654154repayment each  month.  On balance, I dont think it follows that if Mr G hasnt been making 
payments to NRAM each  month, hed have been paying that money into a saving account 
since 2004 without  having to pay for his housing in a different way.
Overall, I think its reasonable that NRAM is not expected to pay Mr G compensation for the 
period of time that Mr G has been paying this mortgage while  hes been of working age and 
receiving his income protection policy. However,  once  Mr Gs policy stopped  making 
payments to him in November 2019, I think at that point  it is no longer fair or reasonable that 
NRAM should apply  interest to his mortgage and together loan. 
Mr G seems to have  accepted that he needs  to sell this property. While Mr G does this, I 
think its fair that NRAM doesnt  apply further  interest to the mortgage balance  or together 
loan. Mr G has said that he doesnt plan to market  the property now because of uncertainties  
in the housing market caused by covid-19. I can appreciate his reservations, and these are 
uncertain times. However,  waiting for a higher sale price  in the future  is a fairly speculative 
strategy and might not lead to a higher return for him. I also need to be fair to NRAM and not 
expect it to continue  to offer this mortgage without interest for future years when Mr G isnt 
living in the property.
I think its reasonable that NRAM refund  any interest  charged  on Mr Gs mortgage and 
together loan since November  2019 back to him plus interest  at 8% simple. It is for Mr G to 
decide if he would like this money paid back to him- or be used to reduce his mortgage 
balance further.  No further  interest should be applied to the mortgage  and loan for a further 
12 months from the date we notify NRAM Mr G has accepted this decision  if he does - to 
give Mr G a reasonable period of time to sell the property. 
NRAM should also not expect any capital repayments to be made to the mortgage or 
together loan over this period of time- unless this is affordable and agreeable to Mr G. To be 
clear, this 12 month mortgage and together loan payment  holiday  should not be recorded 
as a payment  shortfall (often known as arrears) on Mr Gs credit file. 
If Mr G does find himself  with a shortfall (or in other  words a balance remaining to NRAM 
once the sale proceeds have  repaid the mortgage  and together loan)  I think it is reasonable 
that this is repaid by him. But I think it would  be fair in the specific  circumstances for NRAM 
not to apply interest to any shortfall  balance.  NRAM should act reasonably in trying  to 
arrange for this amount to be repaid in an affordable  way by Mr G. Should this situation  
arise, and Mr G feels hes being treated unfairly to repay a shortfall, he can complain about 
that at that time.
NRAM has caused Mr G trouble and upset  by its failure to explore whether he could afford 
this mortgage  over the entire term. I think it is reasonable that NRAM pay Mr G £500 in 
recognition of the inconvenience and worry caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NRAM Limited. To settle the matter, I 
direct NRAM  Limited to:
-Rework Mr Gs mortgage (both  secured and unsecured  loans) so that no interest has 
been applied  since November 2019.   
Ref: DRN05654155-Mr G should decide what  happens  with the overpayment that results from this 
rework. Mr G can choose whether he wishes to either be refunded this overpayment  
with interest (applied at 8% simple*), or it can be used to reduce the mortgage 
balance further.  
-£500 should be paid to Mr G for the trouble and upset caused by NRAM Limited. 
-No further interest should be applied to the mortgage or together  loan for 12 months  
from the date we notify NRAM  Limited  of Mr Gs acceptance of this decision to allow 
Mr G time to sell the property and clear  the mortgage and together  loan. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
*If Mr G selects this option, NRAM can deduct  income tax from the 8% interest element of 
my award. But it should give Mr G details of the tax deducted, if he asks for it, so that he can 
reclaim it from HMRC if hes entitled to do so.
Ref: DRN0565415