K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (trading  as Audi Financial  
Services) acted unfairly by terminating  his contract.
background
Mr M had a Hire Purchase Agreement with Audi Financial Services for a car he purchased in 
July 2016. He says he made the payments every  month for over two years, but suffered from 
a short-term cash flow issue in 2018 when  a debtor who owed him a substantial  amount of 
money went bankrupt. He says both he, and his lawyer, contacted  Audi Financial Services to 
ask for more time to make a payment as he was due to receive  further income in September 
2018. As it was, the incoming funds were  delayed until October  2018, but Mr M says Audi 
Financial Services had terminated his contract  by then.
Mr M says Audi Financial Services terminated the agreement without taking into account a 
letter from his lawyer  which asked  for a 28-day  extension on the payment date. He says he 
needs his car for work and that Audi Financial Services has negatively  impacted his credit  
file.
Audi Financial Services says it issued a default notice on 1 July 2018 for payments that were  
due in March,  April and May. It says that payment was due on 28 July 2018, but Mr M 
initially said he would make the payment by 17 August, so it allowed an extension  until 20 
August as a gesture of goodwill. Mr M paid half the amount due on the default notice on 20 
August 2018 and promised the other half by the end of the month. He later advised he 
couldnt make a payment then but would clear the balance by 14 September 2018.  When  no 
payment was received, Audi Financial Services says it terminated the agreement on 18 
September 2018.
Audi Financial Services acknowledged  it received an email from Mr Ms solicitor on 
14 September 2018 which requested a 28-day  extension.  It says this was responded  to on 
19 September with a request for a duplicate  as the signature didnt match the one on the 
agreement. It adds that even if the email  had been  worked before the termination date, the 
termination would still have gone  ahead as the extension request would not have been 
granted due to previous  extensions and failed promises  to pay.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She did not consider it 
was unreasonable for Audi Financial  Services to have terminated  the agreement  due to the 
ongoing arrears  on the account.  She found  Audi Financial Services  had given  Mr M a 
number of opportunities to clear the arrears and had granted  extensions  to the final default  
notice before terminating the agreement. Our adjudicator  added  that Audi Financial Services 
was obliged to record accurate information on Mr Ms credit file so she could  not conclude  it 
had done anything wrong by recording late or missed payments.
Mr M responded to say, in summary,  that Audi Financial Services  was clearly in breach of 
the contract  by terminating it without responding to key communication. He added  that this 
had destroyed  his credit rating  even though  he was constantly in contact about his 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN05088212my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to decide whether Audi Financial  Services has acted unfairly by terminating Mr Ms 
contract in the way that it did, Ive considered whether  the default notice was correctly issued 
and, subsequently, whether it was wrong to take the actions it did afterwards.
Issue of the default notice
Mr M took out the finance agreement in July 2016  and I acknowledge he says hed paid 
every month for the two years prior to the termination of the contract. But Ive looked at the 
statement of account  and I dont find that to be the case. Mr M made his payments on time 
for the first year of the agreement, with the exception of April 2017, but he had a poor 
repayment record beyond  that. I say that because:
Mr Ms direct debit  was returned  every  month  between July 2017 and August 2018;
Although Mr M made payments during that time,  the payments were consistently late 
and irregular;
Mr Ms account remained in arrears throughout the period, sometimes by as much  as 
four months;
Mr M had default notices issued on this agreement  in September 2017,  March 2018 
and July 2018;
In addition to the above, Mr M had also had default notices issued on another  Audi 
Financial Services agreement in March 2018 and August 2018.
Mr M was first issued with a default  notice on the account in September 2017, following non-
payment of April and July instalments and several  arrears notices. But Mr M satisfied the 
arrears notice on 4 October 2017, although, by then, Septembers instalment had also been 
returned unpaid.
On 11 October 2017, Mr M told Audi Financial Services that, due to a change  in 
employment, he wouldnt be able to make any further payments until the end of November. 
Mr M paid Septembers instalment on 22 November 2017, but November,  December and 
January payments were all subsequently returned unpaid. Mr M called Audi Financial  
Services on 12 February 2018 and said he would make a payment four days later. Although  
he paid one instalment on 20 February, Februarys scheduled instalment was returned 
unpaid and a second default notice was issued on 21 March  2018.
Mr M had until 9 April 2018 to satisfy this default notice and called Audi Financial Services 
that day to make a payment. Although he intended  to split the payment between his two 
agreements, Audi Financial Service mistakenly  allocated the entire  payment to this 
agreement, thereby satisfying the default  notice.
Although Mr M then failed  to make the contractual payments in March  and April,  he called 
again at the beginning  of May 2018 to make a further payment towards the arrears  and to 
explain that one of his debtors had gone  bankrupt and owed him a significant  amount of 
money. Mays and Junes  payments were also missed and Audi Financial  Services sent a 
further default notice on 1 July 2018.
Ref: DRN05088213I accept Mr M says he was in financial difficulties due to the bankruptcy  of one of his debtors 
and I have sympathy with the situation in which he found  himself, but I cant  say Audi 
Financial Services was wrong to issue the default  notice when it did. Mr Ms account had 
been in arrears for over a year, Audi Financial Services had already sent multiple arrears 
letters and Mr M continued to miss payments hed promised to make.
Termination of the contract
I now need to consider  what  happened after the default notice  was issued and whether the 
decision to terminate the agreement was a fair one.
The default  notice  had a due date of 28 July 2018, but Mr M called at the end of July and 
said hed pay by 17 August 2018. As a gesture  of goodwill, Audi Financial Services agreed 
to extend the deadline  to 20 August 2018  when Mr M paid half the defaulted amount. He 
then said hed clear  the balance  by the end of August 2018, but, as Julys payment was also 
owing, Audi Financial Services said it wouldnt extend the deadline  beyond  that.
Mr M called again on 28 August  2018 to say hed be receiving funds on 14 September 2018.  
Audi Financial Services again  agreed  to hold off further action and Mr Ms solicitor emailed 
the same  day to confirm  that Mr M intended  to clear the arrears by 14 September, although it 
was explained  to the firm that Mr M needed to give his authorisation to discuss  the account. 
On 14 September  Mr Ms solicitor wrote to request a further 28-day extension for the 
payment and also enclosed Mr Ms authority.
Audi Financial Services didnt see the solicitors email until 19 September,  a day after it had 
terminated the agreement having  received  no payment  on 14 September  2018. It says that, 
even if it had seen  the solicitors  extension request email  earlier, the agreement would still 
have been terminated and no extension  granted due to multiple failed promises  to pay.
Given the default notice expired on 28 July 2018 and no payment had been received by 14 
September 2018, despite having been  granted an extension, I cant conclude Audi Financial 
Services acted unfairly  by terminating the agreement. Im also persuaded that Mr M would  
not have been granted  a further extension had Audi Financial Services  seen his solicitors 
email prior to 18 September 2018. I say that because  originally  Mr M was told an extension  
wasnt possible even though additional time was subsequently granted.
So, for all the above  reasons, I dont find Audi Financial Services  was wrong to issue  the 
default notice  or to subsequently terminate  the agreement. I acknowledge that this has had a 
negative impact on Mr Ms credit file, but the business is obliged  to provide an accurate 
reflection of the account status to credit reference agencies.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0508821