K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Ms H complain  that U K Insurance Limited  refused their claim against the travel 
section of their home insurance policy.
background
In November 2018, Mr C and Ms H were  on holiday overseas when they discovered  that 
Ms Hs brother was seriously ill. They wanted  to return home. Ms H phoned UKI, explained 
the position and said that their existing flights were  not transferable. She asked about 
claiming for the cost of flights. The content of the phone call is at the heart  of this dispute 
and Ill refer to it in more detail  below.   
Mr C and Mrs H arranged flights home.  Unfortunately, Ms Hs brother died shortly after their 
return. Mr C and Ms H subsequently claimed against the policy  in relation to the curtailment 
of their trip. 
UKI refused the claim. It said that its adviser said that curtailing a trip is something thats 
covered under the policy but that without further  details of the circumstances,  it couldnt  
confirm cover.  
Mr C and Mrs H say that UKI gave them incorrect information and didnt  ask Ms H if her 
brother had spent  time in hospital as an inpatient in the previous 12 months. They say that if 
UKI had told them that they were not covered, they would still have returned  home  but would 
not have travelled back business class at great  cost. They want UKI to settle their claim. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She didnt think that UKI had given 
Ms H incorrect information or that it had been  incorrect in refusing the claim.  
Mr C and Ms H didnt  agree with the investigator. Mr C said:
He understands  that the claim isnt covered under the policy but thats not the point  of 
the complaint.  
The complaint  is based on the information  they received from UKI when Ms H 
phoned.
UKI gave  mixed information.
UKI should have  asked Ms H if her brother  had been an inpatient in the previous  12 
months.
UKI told them that they were covered and in the missing part of the recording of the 
phone call, it reassured Ms H that this was the case. 
UKI admitted that the phone call was contradictory.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
Ref: DRN09272572my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr C and Ms H have very strong feelings about  this matter. It was clearly a 
very distressing time. However, I trust that they will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I 
focus on what I consider  to be the central issues.     
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that UKI has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly  and it shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably.
the relevant policy  terms and conditions
The relevant  part of the policy says as follows:
E Cutting your trip short
Youre covered for
Cutting short a journey (curtailment)
We will pay up to £5,000  for each insured  person for costs that you have paid or legally 
have to pay if you have  to cut your trip short, including:
unused accommodation and travel
[]
reasonable costs  for additional  accommodation and travel if you have to return home  
early and you cannot use your return tickets
Reasons for curtailment
We will provide this cover if you have to cut your  trip short for any of these reasons:
1 Death, illness  or injury : the death, serious  injury or illness of you, your travelling 
companion, a close relative 
How we settle claims
To claim  for the costs of cutting your  trip short, you must provide these documents at your 
own expense:
relevant medical  certificates from a doctor  if you cut your trip short due to death, 
injury, illness []
Exclusions  to all Travel  claims
[]
11. Ill-health  of close relatives []
x Any claim for cancelling or cutting  short your  trip because a close relative []:
a.has a medical condition that has resulted in inpatient  treatment or being put on a 
waiting list for hospital treatment
[]
in the 12 months  leading  up to the start or renewal date of this insurance (shown on your 
schedule), or the date when you booked your trip, whichever is later.
Ref: DRN09272573has the claim been declined unfairly?
I dont think that UKI acted unfairly in declining  the claim. Ill explain why:
Its common ground that the exclusion in the policy applies here. So, UKI acted within 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
But, as Mr C says, thats  not what the complaint it about: its about the information 
Ms H was given when she phoned  UKI.
Only part of the phone call between UKI and Ms H is available  as a recording. I draw  
no adverse inference from that: recordings are sometimes incomplete  or missing. 
Ive listened  to the recording and looked at UKIs notes of the call. The adviser was 
hesitant, there were  long pauses  in the conversation and Ms H was placed  on hold 
for quite some time.  Having said all that, based on what Ive heard, I dont  agree  that 
UKI told Ms H that her claim was covered under the policy. UKI said that curtailment 
is covered under  the policy but that it couldnt confirm  cover and that it needed more  
information about Ms Hs brothers condition and the circumstances.
Mr C says that in the missing part of the recording of the phone call, UKI told Ms H 
that the claim was covered under the policy. UKIs notes  of the phone  call dont 
support that. On balance, I dont think theres  sufficient  evidence to enable  me to 
conclude that UKI told Ms H that her claim was covered under the policy. 
Mr C says that UKI should have asked Ms H whether her brother had received 
inpatient treatment in the previous 12 months.  In effect, Mr C says that UKI should 
have assessed  the claim fully on the phone. I dont think its reasonable to ask UKI to 
do that. Thats because it requires quite detailed information, including medical 
reports, in order  to deal with the claim. It couldnt  get all the information it needs  from 
a phone call. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C and Ms H but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  that 
UKI misled them or acted  unfairly in refusing  the claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr C and Ms Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 December  2019
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0927257