K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000. 
Both the mortgage  and the PPI were in Mr and Mrs Cs joint names. The PPI protected  
Mr and Mrs Cs monthly  mortgage payments against  accident  and sickness.  The monthly  
benefit of £580 was split so that the policy would have paid out £300  per month if Mrs C had 
made a successful claim and £280 per month if Mr C had made  a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Cs signed mortgage application form. It includes a 
section on Mortgage Payment Insurance  (a form of PPI). It outlines  briefly the purpose 
of the cover and explains that YBS will pay for the cover for the first six months if the 
applicant wishes to take it. Theres a tick to indicate  that Mr and Mrs C wished to take 
PPI to cover them for accident, sickness and unemployment. They completed a separate  
application form for the PPI. In the event, they only took cover against  accident and 
sickness. I think YBS made  Mr and Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional  and that they 
chose to take it.
Mr and Mrs C say YBS recommended the PPI to them. YBS says this was a non-advised 
sale. I cant be sure what was said when  Mr and Mrs C applied  for the mortgage and 
PPI, so I cant be sure whether YBS recommended the PPI to them.  If it did, it had a 
responsibility to make  sure that the cover was suitable for Mr and Mrs C. But it doesnt 
look as if it was unsuitable, based  on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time.
Ive borne in mind  that Mr and Mrs C have told us theyd have been entitled to six 
months full pay, followed by six months half pay from their respective employers. But if 
either of them had made a successful claim on the policy,  it would have paid their share 
of the monthly benefit for up to 12 months  per successful  claim. Thats  longer than 
Mr and Mrs C have  told us theyd have  been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, it 
would have paid out in addition  to any payments Mr and Mrs C received from their 
employers. So they could  have used those  to meet other,  day-to-day  expenses.  
Ref: DRN00889172I acknowledge that Mrs C says she could have  paid the mortgage even if shed only 
been on half pay. But the policy would  have provided a significant  monthly benefit for a 
monthly premium  of £15.40  once the free period  ended. If either Mr or Mrs C had had to 
make a claim, it would  have  relieved the financial  pressure  on them  once their 
entitlement to full sick pay ended.  Ive also borne  in mind that it looks  as if Mr and Mrs C 
thought about  whether  they wanted cover for accident sickness  and unemployment, or 
for accident  and sickness only, and decided to take cover against accident  and sickness  
only. And they made this decision knowing what sick pay theyd have been entitled to 
from their employers.
The cost of the policy was shown clearly  on the welcome letter that was sent to 
Mr and Mrs C. So I think Mr and Mrs C would  have understood how much they would 
need to pay for it. And since they were paying for it monthly, they could have cancelled  it 
at any time with no further cost if they decided  they no longer  wanted the cover.
Its possible YBS didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover   for example, 
unusual employment  arrangements  or existing medical conditions.  But based on what 
theyve told us about their circumstances at the time, its unlikely  Mr and Mrs C would  
have been affected  by any of these. So taking everything into account, I dont think better 
information would have put Mr and Mrs C off taking out the PPI.
Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Cs comments, including  what theyve said about  
having been shocked, when YBS responded to their complaint, to discover that the 
PPI didnt cover them  for unemployment. But the box was ticked on their PPI application 
form to indicate  that they wished to take PPI cover against accident and sickness only. And 
the certificate of insurance that YBS sent to them clearly stated that the cover was for 
accident and sickness only. So I think Mr and Mrs C would have been aware of this at the 
time, even  if theyve understandably forgotten now, so many years later. And this point 
doesnt change  my conclusion that the policy wasnt mis-sold.
This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. But 
YBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because:
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because YBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair.
To put that right, YBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN00889173my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 November  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0088917