K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2008 alongside  a credit card. Mr S says Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS)  mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:  
I think BoS made it clear that Mr S didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. Ive seen a copy  
of the application form which shows Mr S selected PPI by ticking  to take the box to 
take PPI. Mr S also signed  separately for PPI.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
   Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
When the policy was sold,  BoS expected to get a high level of commission and    profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr S about that. 
Because BoS didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what he has said about his other 
means of making  repayments. But these points dont change  my decision.  I appreciate  that 
Mr S has told us that he was entitled to employee  sick pay but this policy would have paid 
out in addition to his sick pay and would also have paid out if he lost his job. Mr S has also 
told us his partner  could have helped meet the repayments. However, this could not have  
been guaranteed as circumstances change. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN08674662The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0867466