K821x#15complaint
Mrs L has complained  about  her broker, Towergate  Underwriting Group  Limited, in relation 
to a policy it arranged  for her for a vacant property she owns  there was a water  leak and 
her insurer  declined the claim, which Mrs L thinks was Towergates fault.
background
Mrs L owns just one rental property. She called Towergate in August 2018 because her 
tenant had recently  moved out and she knew she should update her cover. Towergate  said it 
would need to find her alternate cover  as her current insurer wouldnt provide cover in those 
circumstances. Towergates representative offered to send a quote by email  for Mrs L to 
review or to proceed with a quote over the telephone. Mrs L asked to be sent the quote by 
email. The cover was subsequently put in place. 
In late January 2019 Mrs L was advised of a leak from the mains tank in the loft at the 
property. Shed had tenants ready  to move in in just a few days  time. She made  a claim to 
her insurer  but the insurer said that there  was an endorsement on the policy  for empty 
properties which required the water systems to be drained during the winter months. It said 
as this clearly hadnt been the case it was declining the claim.  
Mrs L thought Towergate  should have told her about this term  if it had shed have made  
sure to comply with it. Towergate  said it had offered to go through  a quote with her but she 
had refused, choosing instead to check the quote  provided by email. As it was, Mrs L, 
Towergate said, had had the chance  to check the policy suited her needs and shed 
confirmed acceptance  of it. As for the term, Towergate noted  this is quite common  to most 
policies where  the insured property is vacant.  
Our investigator felt Towergate had failed Mrs L, that it should have done more to draw her 
attention to the endorsement and if it had Mrs L would most likely  have complied with it. She 
said it should compensate Mrs L by paying her the claim amount plus interest*. 
Mrs L said she agreed with the findings.  Towergate said it felt the outcome  was unfair. It said 
it had offered to go through  a quote with Mrs L, which she had refused  it didnt see what 
more it could have  done in the circumstances.    
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN09727552Mrs L, owning as she does, just one property, is considered, by this service  to be akin to a 
private consumer, rather than a truly commercial customer. Here Towergate acted as 
Mrs Ls broker. It acted in an advisory capacity, recommending  cover  which  it felt suited 
Mrs Ls needs. 
In August  2018  Mrs L told Towergate  that one of her needs had changed  the property was 
now vacant. Ive listened to the call when  this was discussed. Whilst Mrs L said shed rather 
not spend time going through a new quote it was Towergates representative  that suggested 
that doing a review by email might be preferable,  that going  through everything over the 
phone, when it already had all her details, might  be unnecessary. The representative 
explained that if Mrs L was happy with the level and price of cover  when she reviewed the 
quote, all she needed to do was reply to that effect. Mrs L clearly felt that was reasonable 
given that, other than the occupation  status  of the property, nothings  changed . 
The representative clearly  couldnt have required Mrs L to stay on the phone and go through 
a quote. But I think they could have  done  more at this point  to make Mrs L aware that any 
policy now arranged might be very different and that the content of it should be carefully 
considered. Rather  than just checking the level and price of cover.  I accept that Towergate 
wouldnt have known  for sure what the content of any new quote would be. But I think  its 
reasonable to say that, given the new policy risk and what Towergate  knows  about 
endorsements usually  being applied to cover for vacant properties, that some warning to 
check the policy could  have been given.  To be fair to Mrs L, I think it should  have shared the 
benefit of its expert knowledge with her. 
In any event, once  the quote had been completed,  when Towergate sent it to Mr L, it could 
have included a covering  email containing any pertinent advice  such as to pay attention to 
the relevant endorsements. But it did not. Mrs L had relied on Towergate  to arrange a 
suitable policy for her and to let her know  about any key conditions and or changes  from the 
cover she had before.  Towergate did have the opportunity to do this but failed to. 
Ive no reason to doubt that Mrs L would  have complied with the policy endorsement  for let 
properties had this been drawn to her attention  by Towergate. It seems  only fair that it 
should cover  the cost of the claim she made to her insurer which it declined. Whilst Mrs L 
has completed the repairs  costing around  £6,600  the insurer  didnt get so far as 
assessing that claim. Towergate, in its role as broker, doesnt usually assess  claims. In order 
to compensate Mrs L for what she has lost  settlement  being  made  by her insurer  
Towergate will need to appoint a loss adjuster to assess the claim  on its behalf, in line with 
the policy Mrs L had in place, but as though the policy  endorsement for vacant properties  
doesnt apply.  And the settlement determined will have to be based on Mrs Ls costs  to 
reinstate her property   not what the insurer might have paid if it had been doing  the work.  
Towergate will be bound to pay what the loss adjuster determines would have been paid by 
the insurer, taking  into account my directions  above. To that amount Towergate will have to 
add 8% simple interest from the date Mrs L paid for the repairs  until settlement is made.   
 
Ref: DRN09727553my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Towergate Underwriting Group Limited  to, by following my 
directions above,  including the application  of interest, compensate Mrs L for the claim 
settlement she missed out on because it failed her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*If Towergate  Underwriting  Group Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from 
any interest due to Mrs L, it should  tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs L a certificate showing this if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0972755