K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy National House-Building Council (NHBC) didnt step in and take 
over a claim  made  under  their building  warranty.
Background
Mr and Mrs S purchased a new home which came with a ten-year building warranty provided 
by NHBC.
There were issues with the render of Mr and Mrs S home and they reported  this to NHBC.  
As inspections were already being  undertaken on a neighbours home, NHBC were awaiting 
the results of this. Once confirmed, NHBC issued an initial  resolution  report  in February 
2018. This said the builder needed  to confirm its intentions to carry out repairs by 
9 March 2018 and NHBC  would  issue an updated  report after this.
Mr and Mrs S complained to NHBC about  the lack of progress with the claim. NHBC said 
further investigations were required and gave  £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused.
A further  resolution  inspection was carried out in May 2018 which required the builder to 
carry out further investigations  by July 2018.
The deadline  wasnt  met and there were further  discussions between NHBC and the builder. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to NHBC and asked them to take over the claim. They  issued a 
final response in September 2018 in which they said there was ongoing communication with 
the builder who was willing to do the works,  so they wouldnt take over at that stage.
As Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy NHBC hadnt taken  over, they approached this service.
Our investigator upheld  the part of the complaint  they could consider. They said that this 
service couldnt consider  complaints Mr and Mrs S had about the builder, but they felt NHBC 
should have stepped in and taken over the claim. They recommended  NHBC pay 
Mr and Mrs S £450 compensation.
NHBC agreed to the recommended compensation. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree. They said the compensation wasnt  enough  to deter  NHBC from 
acting in a poor manner,  so they asked  for a decision from an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that Ive only considered events which are in my jurisdiction, and up to the 
point NHBC issued its final response  on 11 September 2018. I note Mr and Mrs S ultimately 
agreed for the builder to do works, and this was after discussions with NHBC. And they 
remain unhappy with the works which have ultimately been carried  out. But this all happened  
after the complaint was brought to this service and hasnt been addressed by NHBC yet, or 
our investigator as part of this complaint.
Ref: DRN02763372I also understand Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the actions of the builder and how theyve 
acted, up to the final response in September 2018.  However, I cant look at Mr and Mrs S 
complaints about  the builder specifically. This is because I can only consider  complaints 
about businesses  regulated by the Financial  Conduct  Authority  (FCA), and the builder  isnt a 
regulated business that falls within this services  remit.
In the FCA handbook DISP rules, another requirement which  enables  this service to 
investigate complaints is that the activity being  complained about needs  to be a regulated 
activity. This can be found in DISP 2.3.
The issue  with Mr and Mrs S home was reported within the first two years of their NHBC 
building warranty. This means the claim was considered under Section Two of the cover. 
During this part of the policy,  its the builders responsibility to rectify  damage or defects 
where they havent complied with NHBCs technical requirements. If they fail to do so, NHBC 
can carry out a resolution report  to establish whether there is damage or defects (as defined  
in the policy  terms). This is part of mediation between NHBC, the builder and the 
homeowner. This in itself isnt a regulated activity so I cant  consider this.
This service deems a regulated activity to have happened  which means we can look at the 
complaint  when  the follow has happened:
A resolution report has been  completed by NHBC
The resolution report directs the builder  to do something by a deadline
The builder fails to complete  the works by the deadline given
Once these three steps have been completed, the insurance part of the warranty starts and 
NHBC can take over the claim. This is a regulated activity, so after the above steps are 
completed, I can look into the complaint  about NHBC. Anything  before this isnt a regulated  
activity so I cant consider  it.
But as mentioned, whether it happened before or after this point, I still cant  consider  
Mr and Mrs S concerns about  the builder, I can only consider  NHBCs actions  after this 
point.
When looking at this complaint, Ive considered  whether  it was reasonable for NHBC not to 
have taken over the claim when  the deadline expired in July 2018, and whether it was still 
reasonable not to when they issued the final response in September 2018. 
An initial resolution  inspection was carried out in February  2018.  During  this it was noted the 
neighbours property was suffering from the same render problems, and the report directed 
the builder to confirm  its intentions to resolve the issue by 9 March 2018. NHBC would then 
consider the proposals, and then issue a further  resolution report.
In May 2018  Mr and Mrs S complained about the time taken. NHBC issued a final response 
and gave £100 compensation for the delays. They said further investigations  were  required 
and an updated  report would be issued shortly after to move  the claim forward.  
NHBC accepted that inconvenience had been caused as the deadline hadnt been  met in 
March 2018, and they said to the builder  that they could step in and take over.  But as further 
testing was required to determine the issue with the render, they said a further resolution 
Ref: DRN02763373report would  be carried out. In my view,  the £100  compensation NHBC paid at this point was 
reasonable. I also note that Mr and Mrs S accepted it at the time.
Following this, there was some further  correspondence with the builder and NHBC and they 
carried out a second and updated resolution report on 18 May 2018. In this they said the 
builder was to undertake  further testing by 9 July 2018 to determine the cause  of the render  
issue. However testing wasnt completed by the deadline, and acceptable  proposals  werent  
made to NHBC.  
After the deadline, I can see there was ongoing correspondence between NHBC and the 
builder around the repair methods up to when  NHBC issued its final response in September  
2018. And in this, NHBC said it wouldnt step in whilst  the builder was willing to investigate  
and do the works.
However, I agree with our investigator  that NHBC should have taken  over when the deadline 
had expired in July 2018. 
Whilst there was correspondence  with the builder who confirmed they intended  to carry out 
investigations, they had already had time from the resolution report being completed  up to 
the deadline, and hadnt proposed resolutions  which were acceptable to NHBC  by this point.
Following the expiry of the deadline, Mr and Mrs S were continually  in contact with NHBC 
about the lack of progress. And NHBC reminded the builder of their obligations,  and that the 
deadline had already  passed. NHBC also had multiple questions  about the repairs being 
proposed and an agreement still hadnt  been reached. Despite this, NHBC still didnt step in 
even when it issued  its final response  in September  2018, some  three months  after the 
deadline had already  expired. 
Whilst I accept  that the builder was still corresponding  about the repairs,  the claim had been 
ongoing for a considerable  time, the deadline hadnt  been met and even following this, repair  
proposals still werent agreed when NHBC issued its final response   still not taking over the 
claim. 
As mentioned above, I understand that the claim has moved on from the position of the final 
response and the builder  has carried  out repairs (albeit Mr and Mrs S arent happy with 
them). But I havent  considered what happened  after the final response  in September 2018  
as part of this decision. 
Up to the point  the final response was issued, 11 September 2018, I think the £450 
compensation recommended by our investigator  for NHBC  not stepping  in and taking over is 
reasonable in the circumstances. This is separate to the £100 NHBC gave in March  2018.
I note that Mr and Mrs S feel that the level of compensation proposed  by our investigator 
isnt enough to deter NHBC from acting in the way it did. But that isnt the role of this service. 
Our recommended awards arent intended to be punishments  for a business. But we can 
recommend compensation for the impact on the individual consumer, for example as a result 
of a business error, delays or customer service  issues. And I think £450 compensation is 
appropriate in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN02763374My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
National House-Building Council should pay Mr and Mrs S £450 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2020.
Callum Milne
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0276337