K820x#14complaint
Ms M says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policies alongside  four loans. 
background and summary to complaint
Ms M took out four loans - in March 1998,  October 1998, August 1999  and July 2000 - and 
took out a PPI policy with each of these  loans. Due to the time that has passed, its not clear 
how Ms M applied for her first two loans, but her second two loans were taken out via postal 
applications. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premiums were paid in advance  by being added  to the loans (a 
single premium) where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loans, premiums 
and interest on the PPI are listed below: 
Loan  date Loan amount PPI premiumInterest on 
PPITotal premium 
plus PPI 
interestMonthly 
cost of the 
PPI
March 1998 £1,000 £67.26 £5.82 £73.08 £6.09
October 1998 £2,000 £224.01 £57.87 £281.88 £7.83
August 1999 £4,000 £754.82 £242.98 £967.80 £16.13
July 2000 £5,000 £884.35 £272.45 £1,156.80 £19.28
The policies provided cover for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. Each  policy offered to repay Ms Ms monthly  loan repayments 
until Ms M returned to work or the term of the loan finished in the event of a successful 
disability claim and 12 months in the event of unemployment. 
Throughout the period the loans  were taken out Ms M was employed an area manager. She 
has told us she was entitled to at least six months  sick pay from her employer and 
redundancy pay. Ms M has also said she had some  savings  she couldve relied on to make 
her repayments. Ms M has said she was in good health at the time the first two policies were 
sold, but that she suffered an injury in 1999. 
Nationwide has sent us evidence to show that the all the loan accounts were closed by April 
2008
Ms Ms representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ms representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Ms M wouldnt 
have taken out the policies and the complaint should be upheld. Ms Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
Ref: DRN09790462The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Nationwide 
should have told Ms M about  the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms M and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Ms M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ms complaint
The first three sales took place in 1998 and 1999 before the General Insurance Standards 
Council (GISC)  published its code of practice  in June 2000 and the final sale took place in 
2000 before  the sale of general insurance  products like this became regulated in January 
2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and 
insurance conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent  applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
All the credit agreements  concluded in April 2008. That means  the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
Ref: DRN09790463handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Ms case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Ms Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Ms M with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policies were appropriate or suitable for her, given her 
needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN09790464-Whether Nationwide gave Ms M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policies, 
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policies  and significant limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms M and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Ms M know  she had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional.
Nationwide has provided us with the loan application  forms for all four of Ms Ms loan. In 
each of these  application forms there is a separate section for PPI where there  are both yes 
and no options  for the cover. In all four application forms the yes box has been ticked.  But  
I think its clear  that Ms M couldve ticked no if, on any of these occasions, she didnt want  
PPI. 
Nationwide also provided all four of the credit agreements. These all show the PPI policies 
listed under  a separate heading labelled Optional Credit Insurance and the cost of the PPI 
and the additional interest is listed in this column separate from the loan amounts and loan 
interest. So, I think this makes it clear that the PPI policies were  a separate  and optional 
extra.  
Ms M says she was pressured into taking out the PPI policies. But pressure is subjective  
what one person feels is pressure, another may not. And without any stronger evidence,  or 
any evidence to support  this, I cant fairly  uphold the complaint on this point.  
So, taking everything  into account, I think its more likely  that Ms M knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Ms M disagrees. But looking at 
what happened when  Nationwide sold Ms M the PPI policies, Im not persuaded that it 
provided advice.  I say this because there  is no evidence that Nationwide  conducted a full 
review of Ms Ms circumstances and made  a personalised recommendation that the policies 
suited her needs.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Ms M. Instead,  it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Ms M to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Ref: DRN09790465Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms M was given a broad description of what  the 
policies intended  to cover  (that is that the policies would protect her payments if Ms M was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because the application  forms all describe the policies as accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover  and I think its unlikely Ms M would have taken out the policies without 
any sense of what they were. And I think Ms M knew  that a single premium was being  added 
to each of the loans,  that interest  was added to the premiums, and the total and monthly cost 
of the policies (as this information was, in my view, sufficiently clear on the loan agreements  
Ms M signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Ms M agreed to take out the policies. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Ms M sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing her attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points with regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ms. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premiums went to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms M about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ms representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms M has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Ms M? To what extent  did Ms M 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold these policies to 
Ms M. So, Ive gone on to consider whether  it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Ms M suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not 
Ms M would have still taken out the policies,  had Nationwide done things properly. 
Ref: DRN09790466Ms M says she would not have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As these  were non-advised sales, Ms M had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the 
policies against  the benefits offered and the potential consequences  if she didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Ms M chose to take these policies out. So, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of 
insurance. But she made this decision based  on incomplete information.  So, what  Ms M 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. The extent to which  this differed  is a 
relevant consideration when determining if Ms M has suffered any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already  said, the information Ms M was given about the cost and benefit  of the 
policies was clear. But the information about  other aspects of the policies, such as the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.  
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Ms M would get back in return in the 
event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Ms Ms expectations about what 
the policies would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet her loan 
payments) were significantly  different to what the policies actually did.
Ive looked at the policy documents  relevant  to the sale of the policies,  and considering 
these, possibly the most significant differences between what Ms M thought she had bought 
and what she actually  bought were the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions or disease which  Ms M 
knew of, or should reasonably have known  of on the start date, or any medical 
condition or disease  for which Ms M received  treatment, advice or were  referred  for 
investigation during the 12 months before the start date and which  recurs within 12 
months of the start date;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms M 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Ms M pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the 
policies werent  as good as she thought  and she might have decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms M from taking out the 
policies. 
But, the evidence  about Ms Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policies 
werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. She was eligible for the benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. At the time of taking out the first two policies,  
Ms M says she was in good health. Ms M says she broke a bone  in 1999, but she told us 
she only needed two weeks  off work  for this and she hasnt said that this caused any 
ongoing problems.  So, I dont think this wouldve affected her decision to take out either of 
the second two policies.  I also havent seen any evidence to suggest she wouldve been 
Ref: DRN09790467caught by any of the other significant exclusions.  So, I still think  she had some good  reasons 
to take the policies out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Ms M 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policies without  first providing some  
evidence to support  that claim.
To make a disability claim, Ms M needed  to be totally  unable to do her normal  job and not be 
doing any other work I dont think this is likely to be too different to what  she would have  
expected to make a claim. After  all, the loan agreements  say the policy  provides cover  if you 
cant work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. So it seems  unlikely  she would have 
thought shed been able to make a successful claim if she was still working.
The policies did provide a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early, so the policies provided  
flexibility if Ms M decided to repay the loan early  and cancel any of the policies.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms M would still have taken out the policies. The policies were sufficiently close to 
what its likely she thought  she was getting and provided benefits that would help her 
manage the consequences  were  Ms M made  redundant, or unable to work through  accident  
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Ms M would have  
taken out the policies  in any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Ms Ms representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms M would  not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms M 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ms M believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN09790468Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms M in the position  she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policies 
she was buying.
So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Ms M compensation, as that would put her in a better  position  than 
she would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Ms M thinks Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the policies in how 
it described the PPI.  Whilst  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Nationwides statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Ms M, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1998, 1999 and 2000  when  providing information  about an 
insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ms representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide  negligently misrepresented the contract to Ms M and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Nationwide had been in breach  of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Ms M in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2021.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0979046