K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy. 
background
I sent my provisional decision on 4 December 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this policy  was not mis-sold. I said Id consider anything  else anyone wanted  to send me  
so long as I received it by 18 December 2019.  But neither  side added anything  more.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mrs B nor Canada  Square  have sent me any new evidence  or arguments. So having 
reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I have not found 
that this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00224552COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs B says Canada  Square  Operations  Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
background
Mrs B bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card online.  It covered  her 
card in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Having done that, I have not found that this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked carefully at the online application process Mrs B wouldve gone through  at the time of her 
sale. It looks like there wouldve been a section for PPI, which briefly outlined what  it was for and what  
it cost. It then had two options to choose  from: one to take PPI and one to turn it down, with neither 
option being pre-selected. According to the electronic record of Mrs Bs application, she chose the 
option to buy PPI. So I think its most likely that Canada  Square made Mrs B aware she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no 
longer recalls doing so after so long.
Canada Square  didnt give Mrs B tailored financial advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. They did have to give Mrs B enough information to decide  if the PPI was 
right for her.
Its possible that the information Canada Square gave Mrs B about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed her mind. 
Here, it looks  like Mrs B chose  to take out the policy, which implies she wanted  this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like Mrs B was eligible for the policy 
and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
While Mrs B had sick pay through work  and some savings, the PPI wouldve  paid out on top of those  
and offered her more comprehensive cover. And Mrs B doesnt seem to have had any alternative 
cover in case she lost her job. So the policy  could  have been useful for Mrs B in case something  went 
wrong. And it meant she wouldnt have  to ask her friends or family  to cover her credit card for her. 
The PPI had a relatively low cost compared to similar policies at the time.  And it was paid for on a 
rolling monthly basis, so Mrs B could  cancel the policy at any time if she changed  her mind later.  
Overall, I dont think that better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
Ref: DRN00224553my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not plan to uphold Mrs Bs complaint in this case.
Please could  Mrs B and Canada Square send me any more information  or comments to look at by 18 
December 2019. After  that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0022455