K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss A says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2004. 
The policy cost £1.50 per £100  Miss A owed  on her store card.  The policy  would have paid
15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Miss A couldnt work because she 
had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss As case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss As complaint because I dont think FICL  gave Miss A clear  
enough information about the policy. I say this because I dont think  Miss A was made fully 
aware of the costs  and benefits  of the PPI. I think  this wouldve mattered to Miss A because 
she has told us she wouldve received six months  full followed by six month half sick pay 
from her employer at the time the policy  was sold. 
FICL has told us it thinks it would be unlikely that Miss A would have been entitled to the 
level of sick pay she has told us about  considering her length of tenure, but I havent seen 
enough to doubt what Miss A has told us.
So I think Miss A could have met her store card repayments for a while without  the policy.
Therefore I think Miss A probably would  not have wanted the policy if shed properly 
understood the cost and benefits. And I think Miss A has lost out because of what FICL did 
wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Miss A in the financial position  shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Miss A would owe on her store  card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
Ref: DRN09634882So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss A owes  and what  she 
would have owed.
If Miss A made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Miss A would have owed each  month without PPI  
Miss A paid more  than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss A paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss A wouldve owed FICL something on her store card.  The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year
C.FICL  should tell Miss A what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Miss A that relates  to this PPI
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Miss As complaint. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  pay Miss As compensation in line with the 
instructions set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October  2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0963488