K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to her in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Mrs T took out three  loans with Uncle Buck between October 2013 and May 2014.  Mrs T 
rolled over loan two on six occasions and loan three on one occasion. This service  has 
made enquires of Uncle Buck and it told us that Mrs T repaid all the loans. The date Mrs T 
repaid loan three isnt clear from the information  provided. 
A summary  of Mrs Ts borrowing  from Uncle Buck  is as follows:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
17 October 2013 250 23 October 2013
224 October 2013
a.19 November 2013
b.17 December 2013
c.20 January 2014
d.18 February 2014
e.18 March 2014
f.21 April 2014375
rollover
rollover
rollover
rollover
rollover
rollover 23 May 2013
323 May 2014
a.18 June 2014381
rollover
Mrs T says that Uncle Buck shouldnt have agreed to lend to her, given the financial situation 
she was in at the relevant time. She wants a refund  of interest  and charges, with interest,  
and the removal  of adverse information from her credit  report.  
In response to Mrs Ts complaint, Uncle Buck offered a partial refund of interest and charges 
in relation to some of the rollovers. Mrs T didnt accept Uncle Bucks offer.
Theres been some confusion about the number of loans Uncle  Buck gave to Mrs T. 
Uncle Buck  said initially  that it gave Mrs T two loans. One of our adjudicators  assessed  
Mrs Ts complaint on that basis.  Uncle Buck then said that it had given Mrs T three  loans. 
Ive set out above the updated information  Uncle Buck has given this service  about the 
number of loans.   
The adjudicator reassessed Mrs Ts complaint. He thought that Uncle  Buck shouldnt have 
given Mrs T loans two and three. The adjudicator  set out what Uncle  Buck should do to put 
matters right. 
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with the adjudicators  reassessment. It said that the first loan was 
repaid in full and on time and there were no indications that Mrs T was in financial difficulty, 
so it wasnt unreasonable to give her loan two. Uncle  Buck didnt agree that it was wrong to 
give Mrs T loan two or the first three rollovers on that loan. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide. 
Ref: DRN08864632my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mrs T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mrs T could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending guidance  and later 
the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ts complaint.
Ref: DRN08864633I dont think that Uncle  Buck  was wrong  to give Mrs T loan one. Given  the amount of that 
loan, the level of repayment, what was apparent  about  Mrs Ts circumstances at the time 
and her history with Uncle Buck at that point, I dont think  it wouldve been  proportionate for 
Uncle Buck  to ask Mrs T for the amount of information needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mrs T provided or the information 
Uncle Buck  should  have  been aware of, which meant it would have been proportionate for it 
to start verifying what Mrs T said about her financial situation. 
I dont think that Uncle  Buck  should  have given Mrs T loan two. Thats  because  the 
repayment of loan two represented  a significant  proportion of Mrs Ts income.  Uncle Buck  
recorded Mrs Ts income as £1,270 and the repayment for loan two at the outset was 
£514.16. In these circumstances, there was significant risk that Mrs T wouldnt have been 
able to meet  her existing commitments  without having  to borrow again.  So, I think  its 
unlikely that Mrs T would have been able to sustainably meet  her repayments for this loan  
and any subsequent loans. In fact, Mrs T rolled  over loan two on six occasions,  which  shows 
that she was having  difficulty repaying  it. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Mrs T to see if 
there was a point  at which Uncle  Buck  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful and therefore  should  have  realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Ts case,  I think that this point was reached  by 
loan three.  I say this because, by then,  Mrs T had been borrowing from Uncle  Buck for over 
seven months without a break. Mrs T wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she 
owed Uncle  Buck. The amount she borrowed stayed roughly the same.  In my view, the 
overall pattern  of Mrs Ts borrowing suggested  that she had become persistently reliant  on 
short-term loans and that further  lending was unsustainable. Mrs T had paid large amounts 
of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Uncle Buck over an extended period.
I think that Mrs T lost out because Uncle Buck gave her loan three. That loan had the effect 
of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ts indebtedness by allowing her to take expensive credit intended 
for short-term use over an extended  period.  It was likely to have affected her ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So, in addition to upholding  Mrs Ts complaint about  loan two, Im also upholding her 
complaint about  loan three. Uncle Buck should  put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs T paid on loans  two and three, including rollovers;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan two from  Mrs Ts credit file;
any information recorded about  loan three  is adverse, so all entries about loan three 
should be removed  from Mrs Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mrs T a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN08864634my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs Ts complaint in part. Uncle Buck  Finance 
LLP should take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019. 
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0886463