K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement  with FirstRand  
Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo), was of unsatisfactory  quality  
when she took receipt  of it.
background
Miss T took receipt of a used car in May 2018.  She financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car had already completed 
78,000 miles and was about 10 years old.
Miss T has had problems with the car. She had a wheel bearing replaced  under warranty  
and called MotoNovo in June 2018  to complain  about the vehicle. She said the power 
steering was heavy  and the Engine Management Light (EML) had illuminated. She also 
complained that she could  not engage  fifth or reverse gears.
So MotoNovo arranged for an independent  engineer to inspect the car. He agreed that the 
EML was illuminated and that the power steering was heavy.  He suggested that the steering 
may have  been  affected by a distortion to one of the suspension components  and he noted 
there were two historic  fault codes present that would need resolving. One concerned the 
engine control  unit and the other was a wheel speed sensor malfunction.  
He went on to investigate  the gearbox problems. He was also unable  to engage fifth and 
reverse gears and although he managed to resolve the reverse  gear issue,  he wrote:
for such a defect  to develop so soon after sale the issue/s must have been in 
an earlier stage of failure at sale or at best were compromised.  Clearly it would 
not be expected for a customer to be presented with such  costs  for them  to settle  
so soon into hire period
He went on to say we  would consider  the fault to be progressive that the 
gearbox fault will have  been developing at the time of sale
MotoNovo explained that when the dealership  inspected the car they noted that the wheel 
bearing had also been incorrectly fitted. The dealership disputed  the cause of the gearbox  
fault but MotoNovo explained  to Miss T that they would be prepared  to repair the car at no 
cost to her and in resolution of her complaint.  
But Miss T disagreed. She wanted  to reject the car and she therefore referred her complaint to 
this service where our adjudicator provided  his opinion. He explained that the relevant 
legislation allowed MotoNovo a chance to repair the fault so he thought it was fair for them  to be 
allowed to do so. And as thats what MotoNovo had offered he didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Miss T disagreed with the adjudicator and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Miss T so please let me 
explain why.
Ref: DRN02130542Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss T acquired  her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Miss T. The car 
here was around  ten years old and had travelled  about 68,000 miles.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right. 
I think there is evidence here that the car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
I say that because:
the independent  inspector has said so. He thought the gearbox problems were 
developing at the point of supply and the fault codes,  which I think  appear  to be related 
to the EML warning, were historic  and would need to be rectified
Miss T reported the faults shortly  after she took receipt of the car and after shed 
completed only a couple of thousand miles. I think  its therefore more  likely than not that 
the faults were there or developing at the time of supply
In those circumstances the adjudicator and MotoNovo  are correct to say that legislation  
allows a business  one chance  to rectify  a fault that may occur.  
Here I dont think MotoNovo were  given that opportunity.  The first fault that occurred was the 
wheel bearing  failure  but it seems they werent  given an opportunity  to complete that repair  
and the repair doesnt appear  to have been satisfactorily carried  out anyway. So I dont  think 
it would  be fair to suggest that was MotoNovos one opportunity to fix a fault present at the 
point of supply.
Ref: DRN02130543This was their first opportunity to remedy matters. I think a reasonable person would not 
expect a car of this age and mileage to have exhibited the faults that have been reported. All 
of them  significantly inhibited Miss Ts ability to drive  the car and I think  it would  be fair to say 
it was MotoNovos responsibility  to put them right. For clarity I will list what I think  MotoNovo 
should have done:
the gearbox  faults should  have been  repaired as these were identified  by the expert  as 
likely to have been present or developing at the point of supply
the fault codes should have been attended to and the root cause of the car exhibiting an 
EML should have been rectified. The fault codes  were historic and I think its therefore 
most likely the EML fault pre dated  the point at which  the car was supplied to Miss T
the reason for the car pulling predominantly to one side should have been investigated 
and remedied.  If there  were distorted suspension  components I think it would be fair for 
MotoNovo to have  repaired them. I dont think distorted  suspension is acceptable on a 
vehicle of this age and mileage and the fault was reported  within the first six months and 
should therefore have been considered  to be inherent
the wheel bearing needed to be correctly fitted. This is was an issue  that MotoNovo 
would have  always been responsible for.
I believe that MotoNovo  did carry out repairs to the car in September  2018 but Miss T didnt 
collect the car and has made no further payments towards the finance  agreement.  The car 
was sold at auction later that month.
So Im persuaded  that MotoNovo did offer the correct redress here. They  agreed to repair  
the car but Miss T didnt  accept that. In the circumstances I dont think  MotoNovo needed or 
need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0213054