K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs I say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection insurance  
(MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 1992.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Is case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Is complaint.  Ill explain why.
Santander recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs I, but I dont think  it was right for them.
Mrs I has explained that she was only in employment for five months at the time they took 
out the policy. The policy document says that a policyholder can only make an 
unemployment claim if theyve been in work for 12 months. So the policy wouldnt cover 
Mrs I for unemployment for a about  seven months. I think  Mrs I did have  a need for cover  
against unemployment, as Mr and Mrs I were first-time buyers  with no other comparable 
cover. But I dont think this policy met that need.  I dont think  Mr and Mrs I wouldve bought 
the policy if Santander had made clear it wasnt right for them.
Ive taken into account Santanders comments,  including what  it said about the policy still 
providing accident and sickness cover   and that Mr and Mrs I didnt have to take it out. I 
dont think it makes a difference that Mr and Mrs I may still have  had accident  and sickness 
cover under the policy. Ive looked  primarily at whether the policy was suitable  as a whole 
and think its fair to uphold  the complaint as Ive found it wasnt.  And as this was an advised 
sale, it was for Santander to recommend  a suitable policy   which  Mr and Mrs I would then 
have a choice  to accept or reject. So these points dont change  my conclusion.
Id add as an addendum  that the policy document provided states that there is no 
redundancy cover at all for contract  workers   which may have included Mrs I, whose job 
was temporary. So its arguable she wouldnt  have  been covered for unemployment even 
after being  employed for 12 months.  But as Ive already found the policy  was unsuitable  for 
another reason, I dont need  to make a finding on this point.
putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs I in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Ref: DRN07372852Pay Mr and Mrs I the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs I made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Is complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0737285