K821x#15complaint
A is a partnership. The partners, Mr and Mrs S, complain  that they were mis-sold  a fixed rate 
business loan by Lloyds Bank Plc.
Mr and Mrs S are represented in bringing this complaint by a claims management company 
(CMC).
background
In 2007, A took out a fixed rate loan with Lloyds. They  borrowed £101,500  over a term of 
20 years,  with interest charged at a fixed rate of 8.595% for the whole term. Break  costs  
applied in the event that the loan was terminated  early.
In September  2013, A made a lump  sum repayment to the loan. The partners repaid 
£20,460.57  incurring  a break cost of £4,735.80 in doing so.
In November 2018, the CMC complained to Lloyds on As behalf. It said that a fixed rate loan 
hadnt been appropriate for A, as it hadnt  offered an appropriate level of flexibility. And it 
said that the key features, benefits  and risks  most  notably the cost of breaking the 
agreement early  hadnt  been  properly explained.
Lloyds said it hadnt advised A in relation to the fixed rate loan  it had been up to the 
partners to decide whether it met their needs.  And it noted that Mr S had some prior 
experience of taking  out fixed rate loans, so it thought A wouldve had some knowledge of 
how the products  worked and what the risks were. But it acknowledged that more couldve 
been done to explain the potential size of the break  costs  so it upheld  the complaint  on 
that basis. 
To put things right, Lloyds  offered  to replace  the fixed rate loan with a variable rate loan  
waiving any break  costs. It would then backdate  this to 19 November 2014 (when it said A 
had first raised concerns).  The new rate would be 3% above the Bank  of England  base rate. 
It would refund the difference in interest and the break costs that A paid back  in 2013. And it 
would pay 8% compensatory interest on those  amounts for the time A had been  without 
them. 
A didnt  accept Lloyds  offer, so the CMC referred the complaint to us. It said if the break 
costs had been properly explained, A wouldnt have taken out a fixed rate at all  and 
wouldve opted for a variable rate instead.  It also said A had a need for flexibility  given its 
heavy reliance on the partners health and finances,  and as it had an appetite and intention  
to sell its premises when the right offer came  about.
Our investigator thought Lloyds offer was a fair way to resolve things, so she didnt think  it 
needed to do anything further. As A didnt accept that, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
Ref: DRN06728592my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on As complaint  in March, setting out why I thought it should 
be upheld. I said:
Lloyds has already accepted that it didnt give A enough information  about  the 
potential costs of ending the loan early. So the only issue for me to decide is what  A 
wouldve done if it had been properly informed.
In this respect, the CMC says A wouldnt have taken out a fixed  rate at all. Ive 
considered what  its said here, but I dont agree. While I dont think  the partners 
necessarily had the level of knowledge about  fixed rate products  that Lloyds sought to 
ascribe them, I think they did have at least some  knowledge  such  that they would, at 
least, have understood the differences between  fixed  and variable  rates. I can see that 
A, and more  specifically one of the partners,  had experience of lending across  several 
different products. And as the bank says,  it didnt advise A on what  product to take out 
 it selected a fixed rate of its own accord.  So I think A had a preference  for a fixed  
rate at the time.
Ive not seen anything about  As circumstances  at the time that leads me to think  that 
they wouldnt have  wanted a fixed rate. Ive noted what the CMC has said about its 
appetite and intention to sell. But I cant see anything  to suggest this was at the 
forefront of the partners  minds back in 2007.  Rather it seems a more general open-
mindedness to the possibility of a sale in the future, which  indeed  came around some  
six or seven  years later. So I dont think this wouldve  deterred  them  from selecting a 
fixed interest rate. 
Taking all of this into account,  I think A would most likely have taken a fixed  rate. I 
think the significance  of the break costs  and Lloyds failure to properly explain them  
is in determining how long A wouldve wanted  the fixed rate to run for. 
The fixed  rate ran for 20 years.  I dont think A wouldve chosen such a long term if it 
had known the extent of the break costs that could  apply for the duration of that term. I 
accept there  was a need for some  flexibility  as the CMC says, there may have been 
a change in circumstances or the possibility of a sale over the length of the loan term. 
But as Ive said above, I think A also wanted  to protect itself from interest rate rises 
and fix the cost of its borrowing for an initial, defined period.
I cant say for certain what A wouldve done. But weighing up everything Ive seen so 
far, I think its most  likely that A wouldve opted for a five-year fixed  rate if it had been 
given adequate information  about  the break costs. This wouldve given A the stability  it 
seems to have wanted for an initial period. It also offered flexibility  over the longer 
term, in case the partners wished to sell as the CMC has suggested, or in the event of 
other changes to their circumstances.  
I said that to put things  right, I thought Lloyds would  need to put A in the position it would be 
in if it had taken  out a five-year fixed rate product rather  than a 20-year one. To do so, it 
would need to pay A any additional interest it had paid over the term to date. I invited Lloyds 
to send me details of how interest wouldve been applied  had A taken out a 20-year loan 
with a five-year fixed rate. I also said Lloyds  would need to refund A the break  costs  of 
£4,735.80. And to compensate A for the time it had been deprived the use of these funds, I 
Ref: DRN06728593said Lloyds would need to pay interest of 8% simple  per year on these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence, before I made a final 
decision.
Lloyds said it disagreed with my conclusions but was willing  to offer the settlement Id 
proposed in order to resolve the complaint. The CMC didnt respond with any further 
information for me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Lloyds didnt agree with my provisional  decision, it didnt explain why. And the CMC 
didnt respond  with any further comments  or information for me to consider  either.  So with no 
new arguments or information to take into account, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings as set out above.
Lloyds says that by taking  a five-year fixed rate product, A wouldve  been  charged interest at 
a rate of 9.010% which would then have reverted to a variable  rate of 3% above the Bank  of 
England base rate. So Lloyds should put A in the position it would be in if it had taken this 
product out, rather than the 20-year fixed rate.
I understand that while the complaint has been ongoing, A has incurred further break costs. I 
note that Lloyds has included that in its redress calculations, which is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold As complaint and require  Lloyds Bank Plc to pay it:
A refund of the additional interest paid under  the 20-year fixed rate product as 
compared to the five-year fixed rate and subsequent reversionary rate, from the date 
the loan was taken out to the date of settlement;
A refund of all break costs incurred  since  the loan was taken out; and
Interest on the above amounts, calculated at 8% simple per year from the date A 
paid them to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020..
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0672859