K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square)  mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  with a credit card.
background
In 1999 Mrs B applied  for a credit  card over the internet. At the same time she also took out 
PPI designed  to protect her card payments in the event she couldnt  work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
The initial cost of the policy was 59 pence for every  £100 Mrs B owed on the card.  And it 
would pay a monthly benefit of 10% of the outstanding account balance.
Canada Squares  records show  Mrs Bs credit card account ended  in 2002.
When Mrs B complained to Canada  Square  and subsequently to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service - she indicated she was self-employed at the time she bought  PPI. 
When the adjudicator  asked  Mrs B to clarify her employment (Canada Squares records 
showed she was employed at the time) Mrs B told us shed always been self-employed.  But 
she then told us she wasnt  working at the time  she was a carer.
I issued my provisional decision of August 2019.  Here I said that I was likely to not uphold 
the complaint.  In summary I gave  the following reasons for my provisional decision:
Mrs B told us different  things about  her employment status at different times. And shes  
not been able to provide  supporting  information  to clarify things. On the other  hand  
Canada Squares  records  show Mrs B was working at the time she made her 
application. Because Mrs B completed the application herself online - there wasnt a 
member of Canada Square staff involved  - I thought  it was odd that shed choose PPI if 
in fact she wasnt working.
So on balance I thought Mrs B was, more  likely  than not, working at the time she took 
out PPI.
Mrs B made it clear  in her online application that she wanted PPI having been given a 
choice about it.
Canada  Square didnt provide advice or recommend PPI  it provided information 
about PPI.
Canada  Square might  not have done  all that it should have at the time.  But given 
Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time, including the fact she was in good health; she was 
eligible for the cover; and she didnt have  any other means she couldve relied on if 
things went wrong, I didnt think she wouldve changed her mind  about taking out PPI 
had Canada  Square done anything  more.
Both Canada Square  and Mrs B (including  her representative) said they had nothing  more 
to add. 
Ref: DRN05661112my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has given me anything new to consider, I see no reason to change  my 
mind and depart from the reasoning and conclusion I set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0566111