K822xcomplaint
Ms B and Mr H are unhappy with the increases  on their home  insurance  policy  premiums, 
held with Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva).
The policy was sold by Bank A. The policy was underwritten by two insurers,  but Aviva,  as 
the principle underwriter, is responsible  for answering Ms B and Mr Hs concerns about  the 
increases in their premiums.
background 
Ms B and Mr H took out a home insurance  underwritten by Aviva when they took out a 
mortgage with Bank  A.
Ms B and Mr Hs home insurance was called  Homecover  Plus and provided buildings and 
contents insurance including cover for accidental damage.
The Homecover Plus policy was a block policy and was index-linked. 
A block policy is where an underwriter creates an insurance policy  for a group of 
consumers. In this case  Aviva created a home insurance policy  for Bank  A to offer its 
consumers taking out mortgages. The policy covered the same things for all consumers, for 
example accidental damage  to contents,  and the cover couldnt  be amended or changed by 
consumers.
In this case, a home insurance policy that is index linked, meant the amount it covered went  
up and down over time alongside an index that tracked the change  in the cost of rebuilding 
houses.
The earliest known  premium available shows Ms B and Mr Hs policy  cost around £350 for 
the year (excluding  Insurance Premium Tax  IPT) in 2001.
Ms B and Mr H paid for the policy on a monthly  basis, but it automatically renewed each 
year. 
Ms B and Mr H didnt speak with Bank  A or Aviva about the cost of the insurance  at renewal 
and it just renewed automatically.  The policys cost increased over the years. In 2017,  
Ms B and Mr Hs annual premium was around £950 (including IPT).
The Homecover Plus home insurance  policy  was withdrawn from the market   meaning 
Ms B and Mr Hs policy wasnt going to renew in 2018. Ms B and Mr H, when looking for 
alternative cover, discovered they could obtain an alternative home  insurance  policy  for 
considerably cheaper. Ms B and Mr H obtained  a quote for around £120  for the year.
Because of the difference in price  between the two policies, Ms B and Mr H complained  to 
Bank A. They considered they had been treated unfairly and had been  overcharged for 
many years. Ms B and Mr H wanted  to be refunded the difference  they considered they had 
been overpaying.
Bank A reviewed Ms B and Mr Hs concerns  and didnt uphold  their complaint. 
Unhappy with the response, Ms B and Mr H referred the complaint to our service.
Ref: DRN03414392While the complaint was with our service, the complaint was passed to Aviva  and recently it 
offered to refund some of the cost of the policy. 
It explained that as Ms B and Mr Hs policy was index-linked, the sum insured was adjusted  
each year to cover the cost of rebuilding the property.  The Royal Institution of Chartered  
Surveyors calculates the House Rebuilding Cost Index which Aviva then used to gauge  
what the likely cost to rebuild the property would be and in turn set the price. 
Aviva, having reviewed  the premiums over the years,  explained there were times when 
Ms B and Mr Hs premium  increased above  the index-linked rate. So its offer was to work 
out what the premium  would have been  if it had increased  alongside the index and refund 
the difference to Ms B and Mr H whenever  this happened. 
In total it worked  out that it had charged  Ms B and Mr H an extra £134.21 over the years  so 
it offered to give that back. And it offered an additional £64.01 to compensate Ms B and Mr H 
for being out of pocket of that money (set at 8% simple interest per year until payment is 
made). 
Aviva also offered an additional £100  as compensation for the trouble Ms B and Mr H had 
been caused. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought Avivas offer was a fair way to resolve 
things.
Ms B and Mr H disagreed. Given the price  they obtained for a new policy they still 
considered they had been overcharged  for many years and want  Aviva to pay them  the 
difference.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
But I can look to see whether Aviva treated Ms B and Mr H fairly  throughout the time they 
held their insurance policy.
And here, as Aviva has made  an offer, I need  to consider whether that is enough to put right 
what might  have gone wrong.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I think Avivas offer of compensation is fair. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Ms B and Mr H, so Id like to explain why.
Ref: DRN03414393The earliest known  premium for Ms B and Mr Hs policy was around £350  (excluding IPT) in 
2001. By 2017  the insurance  cost around  £950  (including IPT) for the year. As 
Ms B and Mr Hs policy did increase in cost over the years  Ive looked to see what  
happened.
Ms B and Mr Hs policy automatically  renewed  each year. With automatic renewals there is a 
chance that if a consumer  doesnt  engage  with the renewal process or shop around, they 
can find they are paying much more for their cover than a new customer.  
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging  with the renewals  
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly   
and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost. 
Ms B and Mr H didnt engage over the years,  but Aviva says the cost increased  due to the 
type of policy Ms B and Mr H held and not because they werent engaging  with the renewals 
each year.
Ms B and Mr Hs policy was a block policy. This meant Aviva grouped together  a number of 
policy holders (in this case  those who took out insurance through  Bank A) and created an 
insurance policy that it provided  to these customers.  
As the policy was created in a block it provided  all the consumers the same level of cover. 
The consumer, if they wanted to take out insurance,  had two options. They could  take 
buildings and contents insurance that also included accidental damage cover - amongst 
other things.  Or they could take buildings insurance  with accidental damage cover  (so no 
contents cover). The policy  Ms B and Mr H took out was for buildings  and contents 
insurance that also included accidental damage  cover - the Homecover Plus  policy. 
With either of the policies  on offer,  they couldnt be amended. So, for example, the 
accidental damage  cover couldnt be removed,  or the limits  and excesses couldnt be 
changed by consumers. Providing cover this way meant that Aviva didnt have to manually 
underwrite each individual policy  instead,  the policyholders properties were  automatically  
rated using  a buildings sum insured rate and location. The buildings  sum insured rate was 
index-linked.
Home insurance that is index-linked means  that the sums insured and some  of the policy  
limits are adjusted each year to make sure they remain sufficient to cover  the possible costs  
of a claim  such as the full cost of rebuilding a consumers property. 
There are various factors taken into account with the cost of rebuilding  a property,  such as 
the increasing cost of building materials, or cost of labour. The Royal Institution of Chartered  
Surveyors (RICS) calculates the House Rebuilding Cost Index which  Aviva  used to gauge 
what a consumers property is likely  to cost to be rebuilt. In essence  the sums  insured are 
linked to that index  giving the term index-linked.
 
Ref: DRN03414394So this means  the renewal cost of an index-linked policy can also be increased to pay for the 
increased level of cover.  If it is deemed that the sum insured needs to go up to reflect  the 
amount it will cost for a property to be rebuilt  then it follows  that the premium  will go up. 
The premium is unlikely  to ever stay static.  
With Ms B and Mr Hs policy, this is what happened. It increased  in most years  as the sums 
insured increased  each  year. Aviva  says the increases applied  were in line with the RICSs 
House Rebuilding Cost Index. 
But Aviva says there were  times (in the later years) when the premium increased above  the 
index-linked rate and because of this it offered  to refund the overpayments in any years 
where this happened. Given the type of policy Ms B and Mr H had, this seems  fair.
I appreciate that Ms B and Mr H obtained  alternative insurance for a lot less. Given  the 
difference in cost I can see why Ms B and Mr H are unhappy. But insurance practices have 
moved on over the years. 
Policies taken out now often come with a significant initial discount, with insurers  aiming to 
keep the consumer and recoup the discount  over the following years.  Consumers can also 
choose from various levels of cover   so buildings and contents with or without accidental 
damage, and consumers  can also choose  what limits and excesses they wish to have. But 
the policy they took out with Bank A was very comprehensive and had a comparatively high 
level of cover.
These things combined, mean that the cost of insurance can be markedly  different  in price. 
More recently, online  practices and comparison  websites have meant  ever more competitive 
prices. And some consumers  can now manage  their policies online meaning less 
administrative costs to insurers   with the resulting savings being applied to reduce the cost 
a consumer pays for cover.
Insurers can also have a different perception of the risk a consumer presents  and again 
the cost between insurers can be different based  on that perceived risk.
So while Ms B and Mr H have obtained  a policy for far less now, for the reasons explained 
above, I dont  think it would be fair to compare the cost of that recent  policy with the policy 
taken and held for many  years with Aviva.
I also am mindful that Aviva had to treat Ms B and Mr H fairly in respect of the policy they 
held. And Ms B and Mr H have said they dont think they were  treated fairly over the years, 
paying more for their insurance than the cost of what is available  now.  Ms B and Mr H think 
there should have  been  more engagement by Aviva over the years,  and had there been, 
they consider  they wouldnt have paid so much  towards their home insurance.
Aviva, throughout the duration Ms B and Mr H held their policy,  wasnt obligated to either 
automatically switch Ms B and Mr H to another policy  or tell them about any alternative  
products it offered. 
There were new rules  introduced by the regulator,  the Financial Conduct  Authority,  in 2017 
that said that insurers should, in the renewal invitation, encourage their customers  to shop 
around if theyve had their policy for a number of years. 
Ref: DRN03414395I appreciate that Ms B and Mr H feel very strongly that they werent  treated fairly.  And I do 
understand why they feel this way. Businesses  treating their customers  fairly  is an 
overarching principle that they must have in mind in all dealings with consumers. 
But in this case, I think Aviva has treated Ms B and Mr H fairly. It has treated them  the same 
as any other  policyholder with the same  policy. And in its role as an insurer, I dont think it 
would be fair to say Aviva  should need to make sure someone (or all of its policyholders) has 
the cheapest policy  available.  
Put simply, Ms B and Mr H took out Avivas policy. It didnt  have to make sure 
Ms B and Mr H got the best deal year on year.  Aviva needed to make  sure it treated them 
fairly in respect  of the policy they held and not increase the costs of that policy unfairly. 
From what  Ive seen the increases in Ms B and Mr Hs premiums  were in accordance with 
the type of policy  they had  an index-linked policy that also had set, comprehensive  cover  in 
place. There were  risk related reasons for the increases and the increases werent simply 
because Ms B and Mr H werent  engaging  with their renewal.
And where  there were increases beyond the index-linked increase, Aviva  has offered to 
refund those overpayments  which  seems  fair.
I note Ms B and Mr H felt the insurance  cost wasnt set out clearly, and as it was linked to 
the mortgage, it wasnt clear what they were paying.  In considering this point Ive also given 
careful consideration to what Ms B has said about their particular circumstances in the later 
years. But overall,  having looked  at the statements, the monthly cost of the insurance  was 
set out alongside the amount  they were required to pay each month  due to IPT. So I think it 
was made  clear what the cost of the insurance  was. That, alongside what  Ive said above,  
about the type of policy they held and what Avivas obligations were during the time they 
held their policy, means I still consider Avivas offer to be a fair way to resolve  matters.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Aviva Insurance  Limiteds offer to refund some  of the costs of 
Ms B and Mr Hs home insurance policy is fair.
I direct  Aviva  Insurance  Limited, should Ms B and Mr H accept  the decision, to update  the 
compensation amount to reflect the additional  time Ms B and Mr H have been out of pocket.
Aviva Insurance Limiteds additional  compensation offer of £100 for the trouble caused  to 
Ms B and Mr H is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0341439