K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2009 alongside  a personal loan.  Mrs A says Police Credit Union Limited (PCU) mis-
sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs A has said she was told she had to have the PPI in order to get the loan. PCU has said 
the optional nature of the policy would have  been clear. Where theres  a dispute about what  
happened, I have to base  my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened, taking 
into account all the evidence that is available .
PCU has provided a copy of the credit  application and agreement completed  at the time. I 
can see there is an option to select or decline PPI and PPI has been selected along  with the 
specific cover wanted  accident and sickness only. So if Mrs A didnt want  PPI, I think  its 
clear that she could have  declined  to take it. Mrs A signed the agreement which shows  she 
agreed with all the information on the form, including the PPI. 
PCU has also provided a copy  of the separate PPI application that was completed at the 
time. I can see on the application there  are three options: 
to take accident,  sickness and unemployment  cover;
to take accident  and sickness and cover only; or
to decline to take the insurance.
I can see accident and sickness  cover has been selected and Mrs A has signed  the form. So 
having taken everything in to consideration, I think PCU made  it clear  that Mrs A didnt have 
to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this now many years later.
PCU didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs A so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs A got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information PCU gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Mrs A has said she would have received six months full followed by six months  half sick 
pay from her employer  if she was too ill to work.  But the PPI would  couldve  covered  Mrs As 
repayments for up to 24 months per claim if she became  too ill to work. It wouldve paid out 
Ref: DRN00755372in addition to any sick pay she had and for longer than her sick pay lasted. So I think the PPI 
policy couldve been helpful to her.
Mrs A has said her husband couldve helped her if she needed it. But that depended  on her 
husband being able to do so when she needed  it which wasnt guaranteed.
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said but these points dont change my decision. Ive 
also thought about the commission  Mrs A paid on her policy  and whether PCU treated her 
unfairly. 
PCU has told us that the commission for Mrs As policy was less than half of what  she paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how PCU has been working this out and based on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs As commission was less than half the cost of the 
policy. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell her about the commission  so I dont 
think PCU treated  her unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mrs A back any of the 
commission she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0075537