K820x#14complaint
Mr H, on behalf of Miss H, complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined a 
claim for accidental damage to a table. 
 
All references to Great Lakes  include  their claims handlers, who Mr H and Miss H have dealt  
with during the course of their claim and complaint.
background
Miss H purchased accidental damage cover when she purchased  a number of items of 
furniture, including  a dining  table, in 2017. 
Mr H and Miss H contacted Great Lakes in September  2018 to register  a claim as they said 
their table had been  damaged when a vase  had been knocked over causing  water damage.
Great Lakes instructed a technician  to inspect the damage. He concluded that the damage  
had been caused gradually  and wasnt consistent  with a single identifiable accident. The 
policy expressly excludes any claim for wear and tear or anything  that happens gradually, so 
Great Lakes declined the claim.  
Unhappy with Great Lakes answer, Mr H, on behalf  of Miss H, referred the complaint to our 
service. He said the damage to the table  was caused by a vase of water  smashing. He 
disagreed thered been wear and tear to the table  as he said they took care to maintain it 
properly, and in accordance with manufacturers  guidelines. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but he didnt uphold  it. He explained that 
the evidence from the technician who inspected  the table concluded that the damage hadnt  
been caused by a single event. He explained that were not furniture experts, and so without 
persuasive evidence  to show that the damage had been caused  by an insured event  he 
couldnt recommend  the complaint be upheld. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said the damage had been 
caused in the manner  described. Mr H insisted hed maintained the table to the 
manufacturers requirements. He noted that he was a carpenter and was aware  of the 
importance of caring  for timber furniture.  
As theres  been  no agreement on the case its been passed to me to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done, so Im not upholding this 
complaint for much the same reason as the investigator.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr H and Miss H. So Id like to explain my reasons for reaching  this 
conclusion. 
The policy provides cover in certain  specified circumstances. For example, it will cover 
accidental damageresulting from water. For a claim  to be accepted there  needs  to be 
sufficient evidence that an insurable event  occurred, and the damage wasnt caused by one 
of the things thats expressly excluded from cover, including damage that is consistent with 
wear and tear or anything that happens gradually.
Ref: DRN03027842 
As the investigator  has explained, were not furniture experts, and so were  unable to 
determine what caused the damage to the table. Like Great  Lakes, we rely on expert opinion 
to reach  a conclusion. 
Great Lakes instructed a technician  to examine the table. He reported that on inspection I 
found there were  various areas on the table where  the lacquer has cracked and the wood 
underneath has swollen.  Also there  are several scratches in different areas which  are not 
consistent with 1 incidentFrom the side of the area of factored and the amount of marks I 
would not believe  this was from one single  instance. 
As the technicians report wasnt  especially detailed, I asked Mr H if he could provide any 
further information about the damage to the table,  so I could  be satisfied the technician had 
fairly considered everything.  
Mr H explained again how he said the damage was caused and provided a number of 
photographs. Having  considered these  photographs I cant  see they show  any significant 
further damage than was considered as part of the technicians report. 
While I dont doubt what Mr H has told us about the vase dropping on the table, I dont have 
any persuasive evidence  that outweighs the technicians report that the damage  to the table 
was caused over time. 
As the policy specifically  excludes damagethat  happens gradually, I cant  fairly say 
Great Lakes was unreasonable  to turn down the claim in view of the technicians  report. 
But Mr H and Miss H are free to obtain  an alternative expert opinion on how the damage to 
the table was caused, which they can present back to Great Lakes  for consideration. If 
theyre unhappy with Great Lakes ultimate decision they could refer their concerns back to 
this service as a new complaint, subject to our usual rules and time limits.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0302784