K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2008. Mr and Mrs M say Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
In 2008 Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage  and at the same time they also took out PPI 
designed to protect  their mortgage payments in the event  either of them  couldnt work  
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policy benefit  was split 60/40  between them and it cost just under £40 a month.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said Mr and Mrs M most likely  chose and 
agreed to take out PPI and there was nothing to indicate it was wrong  of BoS to have 
recommended the cover   it was suitable  for them.
They also said that because Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was a regulated  mortgage,  BoS 
didnt have to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs M paid on their policy.
Mr and Mrs M, through their representative,  disagree so the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  remember  this.
As the adjudicator said, BoS no longer has all of Mr and Mrs Ms paperwork from the 
time, but it has provided us with examples of what was in use when Mr and Mrs M took 
out PPI. And this shows that a customer wouldve had to indicate on the paperwork that 
they wanted to take out PPI.
Given Ive not seen anything which persuades me that something different happened  in 
Mr and Mrs Ms case, I think Mr and Mrs M saw and completed similar  paperwork.
I can also see from a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage offer letter  that PPI was 
described as optional here. So overall I think Mr and Mrs M chose to take out PPI and 
they agreed to it by completing the necessary paperwork  at the time.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Ref: DRN06090692For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover 
and they seem to have  had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said - including  what they have said about 
their sick pay and other means they had at the disposal to help them out if something  went 
wrong. But these  points dont change my decision.
The existence of sick pay doesnt automatically mean PPI isnt necessary. The policy 
wouldve paid out alongside Mr and Mrs M sick pay  and for longer if necessary   allowing 
them to use this and any other means  to meet other ongoing household expenditure. Im 
mindful that in the event of one or both of them being unable to work it would likely be a 
difficult time, so I think PPI wouldve played a useful part in helping  Mr and Mrs M to protect 
their mortgage payments  and ultimately  their home  if something  went wrong.
So after careful  consideration of Mr and Mrs Ms particular circumstances at the time, I think  
PPI was suitable for them - it wasnt wrong for BoS to have recommended the cover  to them.
Ive also thought about whether BoS needs to give Mr and Mrs M some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage was a regulated mortgage they dont apply. So BoS doesnt need to refund any of 
the commission Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.  
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0609069