K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc charged him a cash  transaction  fee and 
interest when he used his credit card to repay a loan. 
background
Mr R used his Tesco credit card to repay a loan with a company I will call S in August 
2018. He says he asked S if there  were  any charges for using his credit card and was told 
there were not. Mr R says he then noticed  that he had been charged interest and a cash 
transaction fee for £179.14 and says if he had known about those charges then he would 
have used an alternative method of repaying the loan.
Mr R says he was not given any notice of changes  to his credit  card agreement and so 
hasnt agreed to them. He would like the money refunded  and says he always  pays  his credit 
card bill on time.
Tesco says it sent Mr R a Notice of Variation in April 2018  about changes to his credit card 
agreement and in particular that it now classed  a loan repayment as a cash transaction. It 
says its not made a mistake and its entitled  to make such  changes in line with the account  
terms and conditions. Tesco says it included details of the Notice of Variation  on Mr Rs April 
credit card statement.  And sent him an e-mail telling him that it was making changes to what 
was included as cash transactions, which included a link to the actual changes.  It says that 
e-mail wasnt  returned to it as undelivered.
Mr R brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt  uphold  it. She didnt  think  Tesco 
was responsible for what S said about  fees and thought S was likely  to have been referring 
to its own fees or charges. The investigator  thought  the e-mail and Aprils statement both 
made reference to the changes and that the original  account terms and conditions allowed 
such changes.  And Tesco  had carried out reasonable steps  to make Mr R aware  of the 
changes and so it hadnt made a mistake.
Mr R says he did receive an e-mail  from Tesco but it failed Tescos own advice on fraudulent  
e-mails. He says he checks his transactions through an application not the statement.
The investigator reconsidered her view but came  to the same  conclusion. She thought  the 
link in the e-mail didnt  require Mr R to log into his account and also didnt think Tesco  was 
obliged to provide the change to the terms and conditions via the mail as Mr R was set up to 
receive communication by e-mail.
Mr R doesnt accept  either view and says he doesnt  think the link in the e-mail is safe and 
says in his experience its the type of link a fraudster would use. He says the changes were  
not adequately provided or communicated  to him and so they are not valid.  He also 
questions how a payment for a loan can be said to be a cash transaction.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for the same  reasons. I realise  Mr R will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels  about  whats  happened 
which has meant he has now closed  this account.
Ref: DRN06458272Ive looked at the original terms and conditions which  I think Mr R wouldve agreed to when 
the credit  card account was opened. And Im satisfied that Tesco  is entitled  to make changes  
to the agreement subject to notice  being given of those changes. There  doesnt appear  to be 
any dispute here that Tesco is entitled to make  changes but the issue  is that Mr R says he 
wasnt informed about those changes.
Ive looked at Mr Rs April statement and can see that there is information displayed  about 
the changes. I think the information is prominently displayed but I appreciate what  Mr R says 
that he uses an application to check his transactions and pay the balance. So Ive looked  at 
the e-mail  Tesco sent to Mr R and which he accepts he received.  Mr R hasnt told me if he 
recalls receiving the e-mail at the time it was sent or if hes checked back through his e-mails 
and found it.
Im satisfied that the e-mail makes  reference to the April statement and has a section, which  
again I think was prominently displayed, headed  important changes  to credit card 
agreement. I can see that details are also given in summary that there are changes  to the 
type of transaction now classified as cash transaction and a link to the changes in full. So Im 
satisfied that Tesco  has provided sufficient information to Mr R about the changes and has 
acted reasonably to make  sure he was aware of them.
I appreciate Mr R says that the link in the e-mail is not necessarily safe and of the type a 
fraudster would use. But Mr R hasnt told me if he read the e-mail at the time Tesco  sent it 
and he formed that view then. If he did have those concerns at that time then I would have  
expected him to have checked  with Tesco  that it had sent the e-mail  or checked via other 
means about the potential changes to the agreement or check  his April statement to see if 
there were any details of the changes included on it. I can also see that the link to the 
changes didnt require  Mr R to login to his account or enter any security  information. So I 
dont think Mr Rs concerns were reasonable but if he did have those concerns I would have 
expected him to have raised them with Tesco  at the time.
It may be the case that Mr R has looked back at his e-mails  and recently noticed the e-mail 
from Tesco and has concluded  that he wouldnt have looked at the attachment  due to fraud 
concerns at that time.  For the reasons Ive explained  I cant hold fairly Tesco  responsible for 
that and Im satisfied that Tesco provided sufficient  information about the changes.
I appreciate Mr R says the information  should have been sent to him in the post. But I think  
Mr R did have regular access to the internet and his e-mails and didnt receive account 
statements by post. So I think the most appropriate method of communication  was by e-mail 
and I dont think Tesco made a mistake  not writing to Mr R.
Ive looked at the account changes and Im satisfied that loan repayments are now classed 
as a cash transaction. So I whilst  I appreciate Mr R says it wasnt  the same  as making cash 
withdrawal I dont think Tesco made a mistake  here.  I also think  its for a business  when 
exercising its commercial  judgement to make such decisions and its not something I can 
fairly interfere in.
Overall I find Tesco  did provide Mr R with the account terms and condition changes  and so I 
cant fairly order it to refund the money Mr R would like.
Ref: DRN06458273my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0645827