K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains on behalf of his business, that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly blocked his 
business account, causing him losses.
background
Mr T said HSBC  blocked his foreign currency business account without warning. He said 
following a phone interview with HSBC he was told his account was in the clear, but this was 
incorrect and HSBC  closed his account . Mr T said despite  his best efforts  he couldnt get an 
explanation from HSBC as to why his account  was blocked. Mr T wants his costs  and loss of 
income refunded.  He said HSBC told him to open another account  to access his funds.
HSBC said it conducted a detailed review of Mr Ts business account as part of an exercise 
to ensure it held accurate information  about its customers, in order  to help meet  its obligation 
to protect  them from fraud and financial crime. It said it has a legal requirement  to show the 
regulator that it knows and understands who its customers are and must comply with anti-
money laundering regulations, and complete  reviews by a specific deadline. 
HSBC said it requested Mr T to complete its enquiry form a few times and then held a 
separate phone  interview. HSBC said Mr T was unwilling  to fully answer its questions 
although he ultimately complied with its request  for information its review led it to decide not 
to continue its banking  relationship with Mr T. 
Mr T said HSBCs actions caused  him to lose current and future  business.  He said he sold 
his house while his account was blocked  and cleared  business  debts. By the time he was 
able to repay himself  hed lost almost £20,000  on the exchange rate. HSBC  said Mr T should 
provide documentary evidence proving losses as a direct result of the restrictions to his 
account. Mr T said his accountants  are calculating the loss hes incurred from his clients 
cancelling contracts  when he was unable to make payments from his blocked  account. 
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld,  saying  HSBC  followed its legal 
and regulatory  obligations in carrying out reviews on all business customers. She said HSBC 
hadnt done anything wrong  in blocking the account, and it moved things forward  as quickly 
as it could. She said HSBC couldnt have done  anything differently to avoid Mr Ts losses.
Mr T disagreed saying hed built his business for 10 years and felt HSBC  had stolen  from 
him. He said he had no Relationship Manager for many  months  which caused a breakdown 
of communication.  Mr T said he understood HSBC had obligations to its regulator and could 
block his account,  but didnt accept  there  was no timescale to complete the review, with no 
communication, and no information about  the documents required. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked closely  at HSBCs decisions  
and handling  of Mr Ts business account to see if it has acted within the terms of the account 
and to see if it has treated  him fairly.
I recognise how concerning it must have been  for Mr T to have business funds which  he 
couldnt access when  his business  account  was blocked. Ive considered  HSBCs actions 
when blocking,  and subsequently closing the account. However, our services  role is quite 
Ref: DRN09494572limited in this area as there are terms and conditions governing the account and we can only 
look at whether the bank has acted in line with these  and the banks legal responsibilities.  
In order to meet legal and regulatory obligations,  HSBC, in common with all banks, must  
have procedures in place when administering accounts in making  funds available.  This 
means that a bank  cant always  guarantee funds are available  when requested by a 
customer, and we cant say that the bank  has made  a mistake when this happens. The 
Financial Conduct  Authority regulates the financial industry in the UK. By following The 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys instructions I cant see that HSBC has acted unfairly.
Under the terms and conditions  of the account, HSBC are entitled to close  the account with 
60 days notice. Im satisfied they gave  that notice  and while I appreciate  its frustrating 
they havent given a reason  theyre  not obliged to. HSBC can choose who they provide 
banking services to, just like Mr T can choose who he wants  to bank with.
I think it would have  been preferable if HSBC had concluded all of its checks by the time Mr 
T needed  to make payments on his contracts, but I think it had reasons to continue to 
investigate and did so within  a reasonable amount of time.  It wouldve helped Mr T if hed 
had access to a Relationship Manager at HSBC during this time,  but I dont think  this would 
have altered the course of events  concerning  his account.
Having looked  at the evidence, I cant fairly  say that HSBC acted outside of their procedures 
towards Mr Ts business account.  Im satisfied that HSBC has acted in line with the terms of 
the account and its legal and regulatory responsibilities. 
As Ive explained, HSBC  was entitled  to close the account and restrict access  to the funds. 
Because of this, Im unable to ask HSBC to do anything differently and I dont require it to 
pay compensation to Mr T. But I want to reassure Mr T that Ive made sure that HSBC did 
everything they were  meant to do and followed the terms and conditions  of his account.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T, on behalf of 
his business, to accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0949457