K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs B took out with a credit agreement  in 2002. Its 
been agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility for the complaint. So, for 
clarity, Ill refer to FICL  in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Mrs B that she had a choice about it. 
Mrs B says she was led to believe that she had to take the PPI in order  to get the credit. But 
she hasnt given us much detail about what was said or why she felt this.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mrs Bs credit  agreement. This included a section on PPI, 
showing how much  it would cost each month and with a space for Mrs B to sign if she 
wanted to take it out. And Mrs B has signed  in the space.
Theres nothing of the agreement which suggests the PPI is required or will have any impact 
on Mrs Bs application. So, based on the evidence I have, I think FICL did make it clear to 
Mrs B that she had a choice about  the PPI. And that Mrs B chose to take it, knowing she 
didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mrs B any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mrs B. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the likely exclusions to or 
limits on the cover. The policy  couldve  paid out for longer than Mrs B says she wouldve 
been entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve  meant  she didnt need to rely on any savings or 
other means  she had to make her repayments if she wasnt earning.  So it looks  like the PPI 
couldve been useful  to her if something went wrong.
And so I dont think better information about  the PPI wouldve put Mrs B off taking it out.
Ref: DRN07381272my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0738127