K820x#14complaint
Miss O has complained National Westminster Bank Plc didnt credit her bank account when 
she paid in £1,000 over the counter in branch in December 2018.
background
Miss O used  her debit card in February  2019  and found it was declined.  She didnt 
understand why as she believed she had plenty of money in her account. NatWest told her 
she didnt have enough money in her account.
Miss O complained to NatWest. Shed been  into a branch  just before to pay in £1,000. She 
was distraught  to find out this has never been  credited  to her account. NatWest  told her they 
had no record of her trying to pay in this money.  Miss O brought her complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
She was particularly upset that the branch told her theyd examine the CCTV evidence to 
substantiate her story. She was then told the CCTV evidence was no longer available.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence although this was limited. NatWest  reviewed their 
records thoroughly  for the period  around  19 December  when Miss O was more likely to 
have made  this deposit. They had nothing to how shed been in branch  at the time. This 
contradicted Miss Os evidence who recalled  which member of staff had served  her.
Overall our investigator didnt think NatWest  had done anything wrong. He thought it was 
very unlikely  that if Miss O had tried to pay in £1,000, thered be no record at all. He 
therefore could  only conclude that this money hadnt been paid in.
Miss O felt the point  of her complaint was that someone stole  her money  so she wasnt at all 
surprised there was no record of the transaction. Miss O has asked an ombudsman  to 
consider her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a similar 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
There is only one real issue at stake here. Did Miss O try to pay £1,000 into her account in a 
specific NatWest branch?
After the card payment Miss O attempted  on 20 February was declined, she immediately 
contacted NatWest. They asked her, as part of their security questions, what  the last 
transaction on the account was. Miss O confirmed it was a deposit of £1,000. When NatWest 
told her this deposit wasnt on her account, this was the first she knew something  had gone 
wrong.
Initially Miss O was unclear when  the money had been paid in. Shed told NatWest  it could 
have been anytime  between  the end of September 2018 and the beginning of January 2019. 
There was no way with such  a wide date range that NatWest  could search  fully for this 
transaction. Miss O thought shed used  her debit card when depositing the money  but there 
was no record of this happening in her branch, nor had she received any receipt.  Nor had 
Ref: DRN09781832there been any record of the branch having  surplus money of £1,000 from an uncompleted 
transaction.
When Miss O brought her complaint here she thought shed been in branch closer to 
19 December. She later confirmed in an email to NatWests Chief  Executive that it was 
21 December. So its clear she was never  completely sure when this was. This undoubtedly 
made the search for evidence more difficult.
But in their evidence  to us NatWest confirmed  there  had been  no till discrepancies  within  this 
branch nor was there any record of Miss Os card being used in either  a cash  machine or 
branch for a long period. The branch couldnt  recall Miss O attempting to pay this money in.
Ive since asked Miss O to recall some  details of the money she was paying in. What 
denominations was the money in? How was she holding the money   in an envelope  or her 
purse? I also wondered  what  she was planning  to do with the money as this wasnt  an 
account she used  much. Ive not received any reply from her.
I know Miss O had an account with another bank  which was her main account. It is, of 
course, possible that she was completely mistaken about where she paid the money in. And 
therefore its possible she paid it into her other account.
Miss O feels  NatWest  never carried out a proper investigation into what happened. She was 
also concerned  about  the demeanour of the staff who she believed  had dealt with her when 
she deposited the money. She believed CCTV would help show what  had happened.
I agree  that its unfortunate that CCTV is no longer available  for this period. But at the time 
Miss O first complained, she was unsure when shed paid the money  in. I dont really believe 
it would  have been feasible  to examine  up to four months of CCTV to find out what  
happened even  if this had been  available.
Having considered everything, I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable to ask NatWest to 
pay Miss O £1,000 without further  evidence that shed  tried to pay this into her account.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Os complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0978183