K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the way Funding Circle Ltd presented  information  about default
and recovery rates for loans on its crowdfunding platform.
background
Mr M opened a loan-based (peer-to-peer) crowdfunding  account with Funding Circle in July 
2013. Up until September  2017, Mr M had the option to either  use Funding Circles auto-bid 
tool to automatically lend to businesses, or to manually select which  business he wanted to 
lend to. However, Funding Circle removed the option to manually pick individual  loans in 
September 2017 and instead offered two automatic lending options  balanced (lending to 
all risk bands) and conservative (lending  to the lowest risk bands). Mr M decided  to go with 
the balanced lending option.
Mr M complained to Funding  Circle in August 2018  as he was unhappy  with the performance
of his account since the changes were made. Specifically, he complained that there  were
very high default  rates  and extremely low recovery rates on the loans held within  his
account. He said that around 13% of the loans he had invested in had defaulted.  He said 
this was much higher  than the annual  default  risk of 1% for A risk loans and 8-9% for E risk 
hed seen on Funding Circles platform. Similarly, he said the overall recovery  rate on his 
loan was less than 10%, much lower than the 40% average hed seen been given on the
platform.
Mr M said hed diversified  his account  through selecting around 1,600  loans,  across  a whole
range of A to E risk loans.  As such, he felt hed done all he could to reduce the risk of having
a high overall default rate on his account. So he was convinced  Funding Circles projections
were incorrect. He also said Funding  Circle stopped providing an overall actual  return  rate
since the start of investing and instead gave an annualised  rate which isnt as useful or
transparent.
Funding Circle didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. In summary it said:
It had provided Mr M with necessary risk warnings, including  that his capital was at 
risk and that returns werent  guaranteed.
It was confident that the information  displayed on its statistics page was accurate and 
relevant information  for investors. 
It estimated that the balanced  lending  option Mr M chose would have a bad debt rate 
of 2.6 to 3.5% per year, but it was important to note that the majority of his loan parts  
were purchased manually prior to introducing the changes  in September  2017. So it 
was unable to provide  a specific estimated bad debt for his account.
It acknowledged Mr M had diversified his account, but explained that even so, there  
was no guarantee  that his portfolio would perform  in-line with the statistics it 
provided. This is because these  were based  upon an entire loan book of over 41,000 
loans.
It said Mr Ms net return was around 4.9% at the time which, despite  it being below 
the average return on the platform,  was still a positive return. 
Ref: DRN06599072An investigator at our service looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary,
he said:
The majority  of Mr Ms loans were  manually selected by him prior to Funding Circle 
introducing the changes. 
Although Mr M had diversified his investments, overall hed invested in more  higher 
risk loans.  And so there was a greater chance  of these  loans defaulting and 
increasing the overall bad debt.
Prior to the platform changes, Mr M would have  been aware of the risks associated 
with each loan and the possibility  of them defaulting.
Funding Circle made it clear  that any advertised  rates were  projected and not 
guaranteed.
Mr M didnt  agree with our investigators  opinion. In summary, he said:
He competently  assessed the risks given in the information Funding Circle provided 
for each loan but looking at the overall  default and recovery  rate for his account,  its 
clear the estimates  Funding Circle gave were  misleading.
If the rates are not estimated or projected correctly then hes unable to make  an 
informed decision about investing.
He cannot  accept that reducing  the information  provided to investors is helpful.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February  2021. In it I said:
Id like to start by saying  that Ive considered all Mr Ms points,  and I acknowledge he has
waited a long time for a decision on his case to be reached. However,  I hope  he doesnt take
it as discourtesy that Ive not addressed every  point he has made in support of his complaint.
The purpose of my decision is to focus on the key issues in the complaint, and explain my 
findings.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business (PRIN)  set out the
overarching requirements  which  all authorised firms are required to comply  with. The most
relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must  conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must  pay due regard  to the interests of its customers  and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must  pay due regard  to the information  needs of its clients,  
and communicate  information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Funding Circle is also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the FCAs
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly,  fairly  and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication  or a financial promotion  
is fair, clear and not misleading.
Ref: DRN06599073In promoting the opportunity to invest in loans on its platform, Funding  Circle needed  to
ensure it provided  fair, clear and not misleading  information to investors. I understand that
Mr M feels strongly that he wasnt given accurate information about his investment, but hes
not specified any particular issue with any individual loan. Rather, he complains that
information relating  to all loans  on the platform was incorrect  specifically, the overall
annual default  risk and recovery rates provided  by Funding Circle.
Although Mr M has referred to rates hed seen, he hasnt specified  when he saw these rates.
Having asked him to provide evidence to support  the figures provided, he explained that
these rates were quoted within his account  but are no longer available.  He says these
disappeared at some point when his default rate was considerably greater than that which
was quoted within his account.
Whilst Funding Circle doesnt dispute  Mr M had a much higher default rate than the average
investor, its difficult to say with any certainty  what exact figures  were  provided to Mr M or
when this information was given to him. The latter point is of particular importance, as even if
I were  to find that the rates  given to Mr M were  misleading, Id still need to consider  whether
this would have  made  a material difference  to his decision to invest or not on the platform.
But from what Mr M has said, it would appear  these rates were provided  to him at some
point after opening  his account and investing with Funding Circle. So on balance, Im not
persuaded it would have  made a material difference to his decision to initially invest through
Funding Circle.
That being  said,  Mr M had been an investor with Funding Circle for around five years  before
raising this complaint in August 2018. So clearly, any information  given  to him about
projected default and recovery rates throughout his time investing could have impacted his
decision to continue to invest  through the platform.
Whilst I agree that these  estimates need  to have been reached with careful  consideration as
to not mislead  investors, these are by their very nature only projections or forecasts  and their
accuracy cannot be guaranteed. There are various  variables which can affect an individual
investors overall default and recovery rate, such as the weighted  risk of the portfolio or more
generally, the overall economic climate.  And so I dont think  it would  be fair to hold a platform
responsible for discrepancies  between estimated rates  and an individuals  actual rates,
unless there  was something so clear or apparently wrong with the way in which it came up
with its forecasting.
Funding Circle has explained that forecasting for the primary market is driven exclusively by
performance assumptions,  such as future defaults,  future recoveries and future
prepayments. Projected balances and cash flows over time are modelled using expectations
driven from these assumptions and so projections  are not based  on actual realised
performance.
Ref: DRN06599074I think this is a fair and reasonable  way of forecasting and I see no clear  or apparent  issue
with this method.  This is also in line with what the FCA said in its October 2013 consultation
paper on regulatory  approach to crowdfunding (and similar activities)  CP13/13:
Future performance (including estimated future  default rates), must  be based on
reasonable assumptions and objective  data,  not past performance.
Funding Circle also made Mr M aware  in its terms and conditions prior to the changes  being
implemented in late 2017, that:
4.6 [] Expected loss percentages  for each risk band are estimates  only and you
may experience lower  or higher loss rates depending on the performance of the
businesses you lend to.
Funding Circle has also provided screenshots of its statistics page on its website from 2015
and 2018 to demonstrate  it also warned  investors  that any information regarding past
performance wasnt to be used as a guide  to future performance.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ms investments may not have performed in line with the projections
Funding Circle provided, taking into account all of the above,  Im satisfied Funding  Circle
took into account all relevant  considerations when coming up with the projections. And given
the warnings around these projections, Im not persuaded  they were  described or intended
to be relied on as guaranteed indicators of how an account would  perform.
On a final note,  I understand Mr M has attributed the poor performance of his loans to the
changes Funding  Circle  made  in September 2017.  However, Funding Circle has confirmed
the changes made had no connection to the credit  assessment of loan parts  originated prior
to this, nor did it have any effect  on its collections and recoveries process - it was purely a
change to how lenders could lend money to new loans. Having considered  Funding Circles
explanations and the evidence available, Im not persuaded the changes themselves
wouldve had any impact  on the default  rate or recovery process  of the loans themselves.
Except to the extent  that Mr M had chosen the slightly riskier balanced option as opposed
to the conservative  option. I would also add that the majority  of the loans  Mr M was invested
in at the time, he had self-selected  prior to these  changes being introduced. So Im not
persuaded the losses on Mr Ms account  are related to the changes Funding  Circle
introduced.
responses to my provisional  findings
Funding Circle didnt respond  to my provisional  decision. Mr M didnt accept them. In 
summary he said:
He understood  that the rates quoted by Funding  Circle weren't  guaranteed,  but they 
should be as accurate  as possible.  
There must be a confidence  interval for the statistics, and he needed to understand 
how these were  calculated. 
He agreed that there were risk warnings displayed but he needed to know how much 
risk - and that the information  he was given was accurate  and reasonable to be relied 
upon. 
He asked for a breakdown of what his projected default rate was for his loans 
compared to his actual default rates. 
Ref: DRN06599075He remembered seeing  a bad debt breakdown across the risk categories  which  the 
investigator had provided in their opinion to him. But he said the figures didn't quite 
tally up with what he had previously seen on the platform.
He disagreed that the information  about projected rates didnt make a material  
difference to his decision to invest.  
He also didnt agree  that the difference between  his default rate and that which was 
projected was due to him self-selecting  the majority of his loans. He said that since 
Funding Circle introduced the changes, it began investing up to 1% of his entire  
portfolio into a single  loan,  which would  be high risk and would later default. 
Prior to the changes, he would usually  only invest  a smaller amount in any given 
loan, so it was the strategy Funding  Circle implemented  that affected  his default rate. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr M feels strongly  about his complaint. And I can confirm Ive read and 
considered his response to my provisional  decision carefully. But having done so, Ive not 
been persuaded to depart  from my provisional  conclusions. I hope Mr M wont  take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive not addressed every point  or question hes raised in detail. Ive 
focussed on what I consider to be the central  issues to this complaint, in order  for me to 
decide whether  Funding Circle acted fairly and reasonably in the way it provided information 
about his investment. I remain of the view that, on balance, the information Funding Circle 
provided around projected rates was fair, clear  and not misleading. 
I sympathise with Mr Ms situation as clearly his investments havent  performed as expected 
or in-line  with the projected  rates  Funding Circle provided. But Im not persuaded this means  
the rates were  misleading. Ultimately,  it's not for our service to set a confidence interval 
around Funding Circles statistics. As explained in my provisional findings, the FCA has 
explained what considerations  need  to be taken into account when providing these 
projections. Im satisfied Funding Circle complied with these and its projections were  fair and 
reasonable and based  on a sound  methodology. As such, I dont think the information  was 
misleading about the risk or return  Mr M could expect when investing.  
I understand Mr M believes Funding  Circle ought to provide him with further detail regarding 
the calculations  it made  when  making  its projections. Whilst COBS 4.6.7R explains that a 
firm must ensure that information that contains an indication of future performance meets 
certain conditions, such  as it being  based  on reasonable assumptions supported by 
objective data,  there  is no requirement  for a firm to share this objective data with investors.  
In June 2016 the FCA published its policy statement on Loan-based (peer-to-peer) and 
investment-based crowdfunding platforms: Feedback to CP18/20 and final rules. In this the 
FCA proposed a new rule (COBS 18.12.21) which required peer-to-peer  platforms  to publish 
outcomes statements which  includes:
The expected  and actual default rate of all P2P agreements by risk category.
A summary of the assumptions  used in determining expected future default rates. 
The actual return achieved (where a platform offered a target rate).
Ref: DRN06599076However, platforms are only required to publish an outcomes statement for financial years  
starting on or after 9 December 2019  under this rule. So although Mr M should be able to 
see much  of the information he requires from December  2019 onwards, I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable for me to require  Funding  Circle to share  previous  years information 
with him.  
With regard to Mr Ms comments around  maximum exposure, when Mr M accepted the new 
terms and conditions he understood the basis on which Funding Circle would invest, and 
how this may have differed from his own strategy  when  he could select his own loans to 
invest in. To conclude Funding  Circle had mismanaged the account, resulting in more  
defaults than there  ought to have been,  Id need to be persuaded Funding Circle did 
something outside of what it said it would do. Whilst the previous terms and conditions  
explained that Funding Circle  would lend a maximum of 1% of the total funds in an investors 
account to any one business,  the new terms and conditions didnt set a maximum exposure.  
However, the investor guide explained that investors  lending £2,000 or more would lend no 
more than 1% to any businesses, reducing to 0.5% for those lending  £4,000  or more.  In Mr 
Ms case, Im satisfied  that at the point of investing  in his loans he wasnt  exposed  to a 
higher percentage than that which Funding  Circle said it would. Clearly, his loans  become  
locked in at the point of investing,  and the proportion of his overall portfolio that they 
represent would fluctuate with the overall  value of his holdings. As he took money  out and 
didnt add any more,  this has the effect of increasing  the proportion  of his account  invested 
in each remaining  loan.  But this doesnt  mean Funding Circle breached its commitment to 
diversify. Although Funding Circle tries to ensure  diversification, as it explained it would in 
the investor guide, both the new and old terms and conditions  included a provision which 
allowed Funding Circle to change the minimum  or maximum amount that an investor could 
lend to a single borrower, so Im not persuaded Funding Circle has acted unfairly  in this 
regard.
In summary,  Im satisfied  Funding Circle took into account all relevant considerations when 
calculating the projected rates it provided to Mr M, and given the warnings around  these  
projections, Im not persuaded they were described or intended to be relied on as 
guaranteed indicators of how his account would perform.  As such,  Im not persuaded 
Funding Circle provided information  which wasnt  fair, clear and not misleading. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Funding Circle Ltd. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2021.
Ben Waites
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0659907