K820x#14complaint
P on behalf of Mr and Mrs R has complained about poor service from Automobile 
Association Insurance Services Limited in connection with their home  insurance  policy.
background
Mrs R bought a motor insurance policy  in September 2017. She didnt  tell her insurer at the 
outset that Mr R who was a named driver on the policy had had two past claims.  So in 
October 2017 her insurer voided the policy (treated  it as though  it had never been in 
existence).
Mr and Mrs Rs home  insurance policy was arranged by AA. The policy  automatically 
renewed in early December 2017. After it had renewed, Mr R rang AA to discuss  the policy.  
He told AAs customer adviser that Mrs R had previously  had a motor insurance policy 
voided. The adviser told him this wouldnt affect  his home insurance  policy.
During the same call Mr R told AA about  a flat-roofed extension  being built to their home. AA 
said it needed to look into that. Not long after AA rang Mr R and told him that due to the 
voidance of the motor insurance policy none of the insurers on its panel would offer them  
home insurance. It said their policy would  be cancelled with immediate effect. 
In a later call Mr R was told by AA that he didnt need to tell other  insurers  that the home 
insurance policy had been cancelled. 
Mr and Mrs R complained  to AA about  the service theyd received. Mr R was unhappy that 
AA hadnt given him the opportunity to cancel the policy first as hed asked. AA accepted 
that it had made a number of mistakes and that these were:
telling  Mr R that Mrs Rs voided  motor insurance policy wouldnt affect  their joint home 
insurance policy;
advising  Mr and Mrs R that they didnt need to declare the cancellation of their home 
insurance policy to future potential insurers; and
cancelling their home  insurance policy with immediate effect instead of giving them seven 
days notice;
It apologised  for the incorrect  advice it had given and paid Mr and Mrs R £125 compensation 
for that. It didnt accept  that it had denied  Mr R the right to cancel the policy.  It said he hadnt 
requested this.
P brought  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision 
explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint. An extract  from my provisional 
findings is set out below:
Since Mr and Mrs Rs complaint has been  brought to us, AA appears to have back-tracked 
regarding whether its advice was incorrect.
With regard to the voidance of the motor policy AA said the voidance of this wasnt an issue 
for the original home insurer. But because of the flat roof not being acceptable to that insurer 
it had to approach  other insurers and the voidance was an issue for them.  I accept this 
explanation but AA could  have made  this clearer to Mr and Mrs R.
Ref: DRN07738382It has also told us it now thinks Mr and Mrs R were given correct  information about not 
having to declare the cancellation  of their home insurance policy.  It said the policy  
cancellation wasnt declarable due to the fact that it was cancelled  because the risk being 
covered had changed and no longer met the insurers criteria.
I think its more complicated than that. It depends  of course on the questions asked by a 
prospective insurer but as a general  rule, insurers will ask a policyholder  whether  theyve  
had a policy cancelled  by an insurer and in my view as it stands Mr and Mrs R should 
answer yes rather than assume that it wasnt the sort of cancellation that an insurer  wanted 
to know about.
What I think AA might have been  referring  to is the fact that if a policyholders circumstances  
change during the period  of insurance, for example the extension with the flat roof, and that 
change isnt acceptable to the insurer, then the insurer might  record  the policy  as having 
been cancelled  by the policyholder. I dont know whether that was the case here.
The inconsistent and unclear advice will have caused unnecessary  stress  to Mr and Mrs R 
as they were trying to get the right cover in place. But fortunately  it didnt in itself have 
adverse repercussions for them. They  also suffered the inconvenience of having to find 
alternative cover at very short notice because their policy was cancelled  immediately rather 
than on seven days notice. Overall I think £250 is appropriate to compensate them  for the 
trouble and upset  caused by this.
If a policyholder suspects  that their policy might be cancelled, its usually beneficial to them if 
they can cancel  it first. That avoids them having a cancellation by the insurer that they have 
to disclose to future insurers. I think Mr R was clearly aware  of this. Ive listened  to the calls 
he had with AA. In the first one he clearly said that if the policy  had to be cancelled, he and 
Mrs R wanted to cancel  it rather  than having it cancelled by the insurer.  I think  AA should 
have noted this. Because it didnt, they lost that opportunity.
To put things right I think  AA should  remove any record of cancellation from its own systems  
and replace it with a record that the policy was cancelled by Mr and Mrs R as well as asking 
the insurer to do the same. I appreciate that the insurer may be unwilling to do this. If thats 
the case, AA should provide Mr and Mrs R with a letter confirming that the cancellation of 
their home insurance policy was its fault.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party objected  to my provisional findings, I see no reason  to change them and 
they now form part of this final decision.
Policy cancellations  are often taken  into account when offering insurance and calculating  
premiums. Mr and Mrs R may wish to show this decision to their current  insurer and ask it to 
amend their premium to reflect the fact that no cancellation should have been declared in 
respect of their home  insurance  policy (as the cancellation was unfair).
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Automobile Association Insurance Services  Limited to:
Ref: DRN07738383pay Mr and Mrs R a further £125  compensation (bringing  the total to £250  taking  into 
account the £125 already  paid)  for the trouble and upset it caused them; and
remove any record of cancellation from its own systems (and any external databases on 
which it recorded  such cancellation) and replace it with a record that the home  insurance  
policy was cancelled  by Mr and Mrs R, as well as asking their original home insurance 
insurer to do the same. If the original insurer is unwilling  to do this, Automobile  
Association Insurance Services  Limited  should  provide  Mr and Mrs R with a letter 
confirming that the cancellation of their home insurance policy  was its fault.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 May 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0773838