K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that a fixed  sum loan agreement with Telefonica UK Limited,  trading as O2, 
was mis-sold to her.
background
Mrs B entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with O2 in February 2018 to finance her 
purchase of a mobile phone. She also entered into a monthly airtime contract. She thought 
that she was entitled  to a 50% discount  on both the phone and airtime contract. There was a 
delay in the discount being applied to her airtime  contract. She complained to O2 which  
credited her account  with £7.50  compensation for the delay in applying  the discount to her 
airtime contract  but it said that the discount didnt  apply  to the phone.  But it offered her a £30 
credit as a gesture of goodwill. She also complained to the communications  ombudsman. 
She wasnt satisfied with O2s response so complained to this service. She says that she 
should get a 50% discount  on her phone,  that the loan agreement  was mis-sold to her and 
that she received  poor customer service from O2 as it didn't phone her back when she 
asked it to and that it was rude to her. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that this 
service can look into Mrs Bs complaint  about the loan agreement but that the airtime 
contract was outside the services remit. And he concluded that O2 hadnt  done anything 
wrong in connection with the loan agreement. He was satisfied that Mrs B knew that she 
wasnt entitled to a 50% discount on the phone and she signed the loan agreement  and 
agreed to make 24 payments of £39. So he said that the loan agreement hadnt been  mis-
sold to her. Mrs B had complained about O2s customer service in a phone call in March 
2018  but he said that she first raised the issue about the loan agreement  in an online chat 
in June 2018 and that the March 2018  call was in relation to the airtime contract. And he said 
that complaint  handling isn't an activity thats within the remit of this service.
Mrs B has asked  for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that she was entitled to a 50% discount on the phone and that the loan agreement 
was mis-sold to her. And she says that live chat transcripts show that the loan agreement 
was mis-sold to her.
O2 says that Mrs B has accepted the communications ombudsmans  recommendation that 
O2 pay her £30 compensation and send her a letter of apology  for the delay in applying the 
discount to the airtime contract.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has provided evidence to show that she was entitled to a 50% discount on her airtime 
contract. But theres no evidence to support her claim that shes  entitled to the same  
discount on her phone.  And she signed a loan agreement in February 2018 under which she 
agreed to make 24 monthly payments of £39 for the phone. I dont consider it to be likely that 
Mrs B wouldve  agreed to make those  payments if she was expecting to pay less than that 
for the phone. So Im not persuaded  that theres enough evidence to show  she was entitled 
to a 50% discount  on the phone or that the loan agreement was mis-sold to her.
Ref: DRN08590632O2 accepts that there was a delay in the 50% discount being  applied to the airtime contract 
 and it credited  £7.50 to Mrs B for that delay. Mrs B phoned O2 in March 2018  about  that 
delay. Ive reviewed  a transcript of that call and I consider that the call relates to the airtime 
contact  and not to the loan agreement. This service has no jurisdiction to consider a 
complaint about  the airtime contract - and I have no jurisdiction to consider Mrs Bs issues  
arising from that phone  call. But having reviewed the transcript,  I dont consider that O2s 
representative was rude to Mrs B.
Mrs B has also complained to the communications ombudsman. O2 says that the 
communications ombudsman has recommended that O2 should issue  a written  apology to 
Mrs B for the shortfalls in customer  service  and that it should  apply  a credit of £30 to her 02 
account as a gesture of goodwill. And O2 says that Mrs B has accepted that 
recommendation. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that O2 has acted incorrectly in 
connection with the loan agreement or that the service that Mrs B received from O2 in 
connection with the loan agreement fell below a standard that she was reasonably entitled to 
except. Nor am I persuaded that theres  enough  evidence to show that a representative of 
O2 was rude to Mrs B or treated her inappropriately in connection  with the loan agreement.
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require O2 to pay any compensation 
to Mrs B  or to take any other action in response  to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0859063