K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc will not refund  payments made using  his debit card 
which he says he didnt  make or authorise.
Background
Mr S says he didnt receive  a replacement debit card and that the card was used, without his 
permission, from 22 February to 30 April 2018.  He says he continued  to use the card in his 
possession during this period. 
Mr S has had difficulty in identifying which transactions  were  genuinely his.
Lloyds didnt agree  to take responsibility for the transactions.  It says all card transactions  
from 22 February to 30 April 2018  were carried out using the card that was sent to Mr S on 
21 February 2018, and that there  was nothing to suggest that theyd been carried out 
fraudulently.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
it was most likely that Mr S authorised  the transactions.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that someone  else was using the card.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S accepts that he made some of the transactions during  February  to the end of 
April 2018  this was his main  bank account  and he used it for everyday spending. But he 
says his own transactions were made  with his existing card and that he never received the 
replacement card sent to him on 21 February 2018.
The information Ive been provided  with shows that Mr Ss genuine card was used. This was 
the card ending **** 5046 which was sent to him on 21 February 2018. Lloyds cancelled  
Mr Ss existing  card (ending  **** 5038). So theres no evidence that more than one card was 
active on the account. This means Mr S must  have received the card ending **** 5046 
because hes told us some of the spending on the account was genuinely his.
Mr S has found it difficult to say what transactions he thinks werent authorised by him. But 
he says, in particular,  he doesnt recognise two payments to an online  retailer.  But the 
payments are similar to those that Mr S has made in the past and Ive not seen anything to 
suggest his card details  have  been compromised.
I dont think that anyone else had access to Mr Ss card and PIN. Having considered all the 
circumstances I think its most likely that Mr S carried out all of the transactions.  So I dont 
have a basis to require Lloyds to refund any money  to Mr S.
Ref: DRN07963792My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0796379