K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited unfairly declined his insurance 
claim for his lost phone.
background
Mr D has gadget insurance through his bank  account  which includes cover for his mobile 
phone. The policy is underwritten by Assurant, which means its responsible  for any claims 
that are made. For ease,  throughout my decision I will simply refer to Assurant when 
referencing the businesses involved.
Mr D originally made a claim for accidental damage  to his phone   this claim was accepted  
and a replacement  phone  was sent to Mr D in exchange for his damaged  one. However, on 
the day of the exchange  he told Assurant his damaged phone had since  been lost or stolen. 
His accidental damage claim  was therefore  cancelled,  and a claim for the loss was set up.
Mr D explained to Assurant that he was a taxi driver and the phone was being kept in his car 
in the middle of the front two seats,  along with his wallet and keys  but he wasnt sure if the 
phone had been lost or stolen. He confirmed that these personal items would have been left 
unattended when loading  or unloading his customers baggage from the boot of his car, but 
he couldnt recall  if any customers had been  left alone in his car at any stage.
Assurant declined the claim on the basis Mr D hadnt taken reasonable care.  It highlighted 
the following  policy term:
We know how important your device is to you and we expect that you will take care 
of it. If you dont  take care of your device then we may not pay your claim.  If you 
knowingly leave your device where others can see it but you cannot, and your device 
is then lost or stolen,  we may not pay your claim. We will always  take into account 
where you are and what you are doing when we assess whether you have taken care 
of your device. If we believe you have not taken care of your device, and have 
knowingly taken a risk with it, we may decline your claim.
Mr D was unhappy with Assurants decision,  so he referred a complaint to this service. The 
complaint was considered by one of our investigators but he didnt think it should be upheld. 
Our investigator explained that because the phone was unusable, he didnt think it was likely 
Mr D would have been carrying it about  on his person.  So he thought it was more  likely the 
phone had been stolen from Mr Ds car  where  he confirmed he was keeping it  rather  
than lost. 
Our investigator concluded that because the phone had been  left unattended  in Mr Ds car 
and in open sight, the claim was fairly declined. He explained the policy  terms state that 
devices should  be locked away from sight if left unattended,  or if this isnt possible,  they 
should be concealed in a safe place. 
Because Mr D disagreed  with our investigator, his complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. Mr D says if his phone was stolen from his car, rather than lost, his other 
personal possessions  would have been  taken too, as they were  kept together.
Ref: DRN01008582my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When the evidence is inconclusive,  as 
some of it is here,  I reach my decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what I 
consider is more likely to have happened, in light of the evidence  that is available  and the 
wider surrounding  circumstances.
Mr Ds original claim for accidental damage  had been accepted  but as per the policy  terms, 
this was on the condition that the damaged phone was given to Assurant  in exchange for the 
replacement. Mr D wasnt able to provide Assurant with his damaged  phone, so in my view it 
was fair the original  claim wasnt  continued;  and for Assurant to have considered  the theft or 
loss instead. Mr D hasnt  contested this point, but I cover it off for completeness.
The issue  I need to decide here is whether Mr Ds phone was lost in circumstances covered 
by his policy. Given the nature of Mr Ds job and the number  of different people hes likely to 
have had in his car; its understandable  he doesnt  know what  happened  to his phone. But 
this does mean that I need to decide  what is more likely to have happened  and I agree 
with the conclusions our investigator reached. Because Mr Ds phone wasnt working,  on 
balance, I consider it unlikely that he was carrying it on his person. Mr D also hasnt said 
anything which suggests that he lost the phone whilst it was in his possession.  
I understand the point Mr D has made  about  his other personal possessions not being taken. 
But the person  who took his phone may not have  had the time to take more items   or they 
may have  thought taking further  items presented too much risk, or wasnt worthwhile. So 
overall, Im not persuaded that Mr Ds phone wasnt stolen simply because  his other 
possessions werent.  
In conclusion, having considered matters carefully,  Im more persuaded that Mr Ds phone  
was stolen from his car, than lost in other circumstances.
Mr D confirmed his phone  was being kept in an unsecure and accessible area (rather  than in 
the glovebox or some  other hidden compartment),  and that his customers  may have been  
left alone in his car. So in the view of the policy terms highlighted by Assurant and our 
investigator, Im satisfied  that Assurant didnt  unreasonably decline Mr Ds claim.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr D. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0100858