K822xcomplaint
Mr K is unhappy Intrum UK Limited (Intrum) continued to pursue him for a debt. Hes said 
Intrums actions caused significant stress and psychological damage.  
background 
Mr K took out a loan in 2007 with a lender. He struggled to maintain the payments on the 
loan so the lender instructed a collections agency to collect the outstanding  balance. The 
collections agency bought the debt in 2016. The agency was then bought by Intrum  in 2019. 
In 2013 a judge had recommended that Mr Ks debt be written off. Although this was just a 
recommendation, the collections agency had subsequently noted not to chase Mr K about 
the debt. When  the collections agency was bought by Intrum, these notes werent  passed  
over immediately  which  led to Intrum contacting Mr K to let him know it had taken over the 
collections agency, and asking him for repayment  of the debt.
Mr K says he told Intrum it shouldnt be pursuing  him for repayment. After  he received more  
letters, Mr Ks representative also contacted  Intrum   and provided it with a copy of the 
judges recommendation. 
Mr K also contacted our service, and an investigator here looked at the complaint. She said 
she thought Mr K had suffered unnecessary trouble and upset due to Intrums actions. But 
she also acknowledged that Intrum dealt with things quickly once she had spoken  with it. 
She thought  Intrum should pay Mr K £500  to reflect the trouble and upset it caused. 
Mr K said he didnt  feel £500 was enough,  and said he had a figure of £1,000 - £1,500 in 
mind. So the case  has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I want to re-assure  Mr K that I have 
listened to everything  hes said and provided  and I also appreciate  this experience  has 
been very distressing for him.
This service isnt here to punish businesses, or act as a regulator. Thats the role of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. So while I acknowledge that Mr K has said he wants  any award 
I make  to be enough of a penalty to Intrum, Im only going to make  an award that I think  is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case, to acknowledge the distress caused  to 
Mr K specifically. Not to act as a punishment. 
Intrum doesnt  dispute  that it couldve handled  things better; its acknowledged  it caused 
Mr K undue levels of distress, worry and anxiety. Mr K has mentioned  on a number of 
occasions that Intrums actions  made things worse  for him. He contacted Intrum after it wrote  
to him so that he could explain the situation, but he continued to receive letters.  So I think  an 
award of compensation to Mr K is reasonable  considering the impact on him. 
Ref: DRN05670732Intrum has said the notes about  Mr Ks account  made by the collection agency werent 
available until May 2019, which is why it had already  started to write  to Mr K about the debt. 
Its also said some system issues caused  the hold status to be removed  from Mr Ks 
account. But when  this service brought Mr Ks complaint to Intrums attention, it did make 
arrangements to stop contacting him. And Ive noted the debt has since  been  written off. 
Intrum has acknowledged  its mistakes and its apologised to Mr K. Mr K has said Intrums  
contact caused  him immense stress and psychological damage at an already difficult time.  
So while I want to acknowledge how distressing this must have been, and empathise with 
Mr K, Im satisfied that Intrum took action  to sort things  out quickly  once it was fully aware  of 
the issue. 
So keeping in mind  that my decision  in this case isnt to punish  Intrum in any way  I think  
£500 is a fair and reasonable  amount  to compensate Mr K. Both for the letters it sent after 
he made Intrum aware of his circumstances and the account history,  and for causing  
unnecessary trouble  and upset. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I require Intrum UK Limited to pay Mr K 
£500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Simon Louth
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0567073