K820x#14complaint
Mr, Mrs and Mr T are unhappy  with the quality  of the mortgage valuation that Cambridge 
Building Society (CBS) instructed.
background
In August  2018,  Mr and Mrs T and their son approached  CBS to help fund a property they 
had agreed to buy. As a requirement of the mortgage, CBS arranged for a house valuation 
to be completed on the property. Initially  Mr, Mrs and Mr T wanted  to have a homebuyers  
survey added to the valuation  but as they were told this would take two weeks,  they opted to 
have just the valuation completed. They complained about this point too.
When the valuation  was completed, Mr and Mrs T and their son were surprised to see that 
the value of the property was recorded  as the same  amount they had offered for the 
property. They had expected it to be much  lower and were  hoping it would enable them to 
renegotiate the price of the house.
Mr T complained to CBS.  He said he wanted  a refund of the money they had spent on the 
mortgage application, totalling  £1,588. CBS said that the valuation  was done for its lending 
purposes only and that it was satisfied that the valuation  was correct. Mr T was unhappy with 
this response so brought the complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She explained that as CBS used an 
independent surveyor,  the lenders obligations are limited to ensuring that a qualified  
surveyor is appointed.  As it had done this, she was satisfied that it didnt need to do anything 
further. This also meant that we couldnt  look into the time it wouldve  taken  for the 
homebuyers survey  to be completed. Mr T doesnt agree so he asked for an ombudsman  to 
review the complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.  
I understand that Mr T and his family were hoping to be able to use the report to renegotiate 
the price of the property. But the mortgage  valuation was carried out to help CBS make  a 
responsible lending decision,  namely to check the property  provided adequate security for 
the amount Mr T and his family wanted to borrow. As CBS were  happy to continue  with the 
mortgage, I believe the report served its purpose.
CBS doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services  of an 
independent surveyor.  I appreciate that because CBS instructed the surveyor to undertake 
the mortgage valuation, Mr T may consider that it should accept responsibility for any 
potential issues or complaints he may have about it. However, the only obligation required of 
CBS is to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor to carry out the valuation   a requirement  that 
it fulfilled by appointing a member of the Royal  Institution of Chartered  Surveyors.  
We cant consider complaints about the surveyor, their timescales  or the work they have done, as 
they are not a member of CBS staff. Its not in our jurisdiction to do so. So, while  I can appreciate  
the situation has been frustrating for Mr T and his family, I cant hold CBS responsible.
Ref: DRN07025072my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr, Mrs and Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2019.
Sarah Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0702507