K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains about AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA)s handling of a claim brought  under 
her motor insurance policy.
background
Ms R made a claim  to repair  her vehicle under her motor insurance policy. Ms R says she 
was entitled to a courtesy car under  her policy but had to chase AXA and the repairing 
garage for it and for an estimate  of the cost of repair. Ms R was without a courtesy car for 
the first two weeks and during this time was put to the expense  of having to hire a car and 
use taxis. Ms R also says that she had to chase AXA as her calls were  not returned.
Its agreed the garage has already  offered Ms R £300 to compensate for the delays and this 
offer remains open for her to accept. But Ms R says this does not fully cover her losses, 
which she puts at £378.98, plus £120  for missed  clubs and phone calls.
AXA say Ms R was offered a courtesy car when her car went in for repair,  but she initially  
declined the offer as she wished to know the cost of repair  before making a claim. They  
acknowledge the repair estimate took longer to draw up but that was because of the nature 
of the damage  to the vehicle. When Ms R was made aware  of the costs, she proceeded with 
the claim and a courtesy car was provided.  But Ms R is adamant  that she did not decline the 
offer of a hire car at the outset.
Our investigator thought Ms R hadnt been  provided  with clear information  about what was 
happening with the provision of a courtesy  car. He thought the offer from the garage was fair 
and reasonable so it wasnt fair to ask AXA to pay Ms R anymore.
Ms R doesnt agree  with the view and she says the offer would leave her with a shortfall. As 
the parties do not agree, the matter has come  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of the policy, Ms R wouldve been entitled to a courtesy car whilst her 
vehicle was being repaired. Ive seen notes from the garage which  record that Ms R initially 
declined a courtesy car but Ive balanced  that against her recollection that she did not 
decline the courtesy car. Unfortunately, theres no longer a recording of the call from the 
time.
Even if Ms R had declined  the offer of a courtesy  car initially  in order to wait for an estimate,  
I cannot see that she was given  any indication  as to how long the estimate process  would 
take. Given Ms Rs family circumstances, I consider it is unlikely that she would have put 
herself in a position to risk being without a vehicle for an extended period. Im not satisfied 
that Ms Rs expectations were managed  fairly and I accept there was some  delay in keeping 
her updated.
Having read the notes  from the time, it also appears there was confusion as to whether AXA 
would be refunding the consumer for the expenses she incurred and whether the courtesy 
car could  be kept for longer, which resulted in many telephone conversations.  On balance, I 
Ref: DRN05838442consider this matter  could  have been handled  better  and its understandable that Ms F 
became frustrated and upset with the process.  I therefore consider that its appropriate  to 
award compensation to Ms F for the distress and upset shes been caused.
AXA have confirmed the garages  offer of £300  is still open.  I have taken  this into account  
when deciding how much  to compensate Ms R as Im mindful that it is not fair and 
reasonable to award double compensation.
Ms R says that even  if she accepted the offer from the garage she would be left with a 
shortfall and shes provided  evidence to show some of her outlay
In additional to financial loss, Ive taken  into account Ms Rs description of the distress and 
inconvenience she suffered including making calls and her children missing  clubs and 
training.
Taking everything into account,  it is my view that it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to 
pay Ms R a global sum of £250. That is to be paid on top of the £300 offered  by the garage. 
Its now a matter for Ms R choses to decide  separately whether to also accept the offer from 
the garage.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding this complaint.
I direct  AXA Insurance  UK Plc to pay Mrs R £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0583844