K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out with a mortgage in 1989.
The policy protected Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage  monthly repayments  if they couldnt  work. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy terms Nationwide has referred  us to say that benefits for accident, sickness or 
unemployment wont be paid until after 90 days from when someone stopped working  due to 
accident, illness or becoming unemployed (the waiting  period).
Even though  Nationwide didnt recommend  the policy to Mr and Mrs W, this was an 
important term. Its reasonable to expect Nationwide wouldve explained  the waiting period 
clearly to Mr and Mrs W before they agreed  to take the cover.
Nationwide has sent me a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage application. This shows they 
indicated that they both wanted to have PPI to protect their mortgage monthly repayments. 
Ive taken into account that Nationwide says the waiting period wouldve been  explained  to 
Mr and Mrs W as part of its sale process. Ive also seen the policy  leaflet that wouldve been 
in use when Mr and Mrs W bought PPI. Ive taken into account  that Nationwide says, prior to 
Mr and Mrs W choosing  PPI, they wouldve  been  given the PPI leaflet  to help them  make  an 
informed decision on whether to proceed.
That leaflet mentions the waiting period, although not in my view very clearly  or prominently.  
And I dont  know how, if at all, Nationwide explained  the waiting period to Mr and Mrs W or 
when the policy leaflet was given to them. So based on everything Ive looked at, I dont 
think theres enough information  to show that Nationwide clearly  explained  the waiting period 
to Mr and Mrs W before  they agreed to buy PPI. 
Ref: DRN06164372Neither Mr W nor Mrs W couldve depended on getting any sick pay. And they told us they 
didnt have any significant other  means to rely on if they werent  working. So, from what 
theyve said, they had no guaranteed means  in place to keep up with their mortgage  
repayments. Looking  at what I know about  their circumstances at the time, I think they 
mightve struggled to meet their mortgage  repayments during the 90 day waiting  period  if 
either of them  became  unexpectedly unemployed or was off work due to illness.
Nationwide says that it couldve offered payment concessions. So the waiting period 
wouldnt have been an issue for Mr and Mrs W and concern about it impacting adversely  on 
Mr and Mrs W is misplaced. 
But there was no guarantee that Nationwide wouldve  allowed Mr and Mrs W to make  
reduced payments  when  they agreed to buy the PPI. The policy  was designed  to give 
Mr and Mrs W peace of mind  and the certain knowledge that their mortgage repayments 
would be covered in the event they werent both working. Given the potential risks involved 
with a mortgage, I dont think  its likely Mr and Mrs W wouldve been  willing  to take a chance 
and just hope that Nationwide  might offer payment concessions if theyd needed this sort of 
help. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs W wouldve agreed  to take the policy had Nationwide  clearly 
explained the waiting period to them. And as a result,  I think theyve lost out because of what 
Nationwide did wrong.
putting things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs W in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. Nationwide  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs W the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  
The interest rate should be 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on. 
If Mr and Mrs W made a successful  claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes Mr and Mrs W.  
If Nationwide has already refunded an amount to Mr and Mrs W in respect  of this policy 
then it can deduct the amount paid already from the amount it now owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr and Mrs W a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN06164373my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Nationwide Building  Society should  put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0616437