K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Abacus Financial  Options Limited (Abacus)  gave him unsuitable  advice. 
In particular, he says the advice  to move a personal pension pot to a new provider was not in 
his best interests.
Mr C also says he received a lower tax free lump sum than he was expecting and there was 
a delay in switching his funds to lower risk investments.
In order to put matters  right Mr C wants Abacus to reimburse the money  he has lost.
background
In September  2016 Abacus advised  Mr C on his pension arrangements.  Fact find 
information recorded at the time shows that Mr C was 62 years old, married  and working  full 
time. It was noted that Mr C intended to continue  to work until age 70.
Mr C was assessed as having a moderate  attitude to investment risk. The adviser  recorded  
that Mr C wanted to:
...consolidate your existing pensions to have  greater control  and understanding  of your 
benefits, including your potential retirement income. You wanted to be able to access your 
benefits at a time to suit you and [Mrs C].
Mr C had three personal pension pots,  two of which provided a guaranteed  income from age 
70. Abacus advised Mr C to transfer the pension pot that didnt offer a guaranteed  income  to 
a new provider. Mr C went ahead with this recommendation.
Abacus said that Mr Cs existing pension plan didnt offer a drawdown facility  which  was 
something he had expressed an interest in. It also said it had carried out a comparison 
between the benefits at age 70 offered by Mr Cs existing pension  plan provider and the new 
provider it was recommending. It said:
It is indicated that even allowing for the deduction of the advice fee and ongoing fees the 
recommendation indicates  a better  result  for you at retirement and taking into account the 
differing projection  rates used  above.
In late 2018, Mr C contacted Abacus to arrange to withdraw a 25% tax free lump sum from 
the pension pot. Mr C subsequently  received  a lump sum payment of £21,764.13.  This was 
less than the illustration  he had received from his pension provider which set out that the tax-
free lump  sum would be £22,251.67.
Abacus also arranged for Mr C to switch to a lower  risk fund at around the same time. It 
appears there was a delay in this switch  being actioned by Mr Cs pension  provider.
I understand that Abacus  made a complaint on Mr Cs behalf to the pension  provider about 
the tax free lump sum Mr C received. The complaint was upheld. It appears  the product 
provider had incorrectly told Abacus that the illustrative figure given on 5 October  2018  was 
the tax-free lump  sum that would be paid.
Mr C complained to Abacus about the pension advice it had given him. He said he didnt 
think the advice  to move his pension pot to a new provider  had been  in his best interests. He 
also complained  that his tax free lump sum was lower than he had expected  and about the 
delay in carrying out the fund switch.
Ref: DRN00973752Abacus didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said it had contacted the product provider on 
Mr Cs behalf about the information it had been  given about the tax free lump sum he would 
receive. It also explained that the pension provider said it couldnt  carry out the fund switch 
until the lump sum withdrawal had been processed. This had resulted in a short delay before 
Mr Cs fund switch was actioned.
Abacus also said it didnt think the advice it had given Mr C to move his pension pot to a new 
provider was unsuitable.
Mr C didnt accept Abacuss response  and brought his complaint  to this service.
Our investigator said he thought Mr Cs complaint  should be upheld in part. He said he didnt 
think Abacus had done anything wrong when it relied on the information Mr Cs pension 
provider gave it about the amount of tax free cash Mr C would receive. Likewise, he said he 
didnt think Abacus was responsible for the short delay before Mr Cs fund switch  was 
processed by his pension provider.
But he said he was of the view that the advice Abacus gave Mr C to move his pension pot to 
a new provider was not suitable.
In particular, he said he thought the information  Abacus set out in its suitability report  
advising Mr C to move his pension pot to a new provider was misleading.  He said he thought 
the projected growth rate used was not in line with Mr Cs attitude to risk. He also said he felt 
that the information about the growth  Mr C could expect if he left his pension pot with his 
existing provider was not accurate.
He said he thought that if more accurate information  had been  provided, Mr C would not 
have agreed to move his pension pot to a new provider.
In particular, he noted that the projections  used in the suitability report set out that Mr C 
could achieve  a possible fund value of £99,600  if he transferred his pension  pot to the new 
provider. But he might achieve a fund value  of only £90,288 if he remained with his existing 
pension provider.
However, the figures used werent a like for like comparison  and our investigator felt it was 
misleading to present  them  as such.  He also raised issues  with the way charges had been 
taken into account  and Abacuss use of the higher  growth rate when  projecting  the return 
Mr C might achieve if he moved to the new provider. He said he felt the mid-growth rate 
(1.5% after the deduction of the inflation rate) was more appropriate given Mr Cs moderate 
attitude to investment risk.
He said he was of the view that if Abacus had accurately taken account of all the charges 
and used the mid growth rate for projecting  investment  returns  it appeared that Mr C would 
have been better off leaving his pension pot with his existing provider until he needed to 
access his pension benefits. At that time, he could then have sought advice about moving to 
a more flexible  plan, if necessary.
In order to put matters  right our investigator said Abacus should, as far as possible, put Mr C 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had been advised to remain  with 
his existing pension  provider. He said he thought Mr C would probably have moved his 
pension pot to the product  provider  recommended  by Abacus when he took his tax free lump 
Ref: DRN00973753sum in 2018  and he reflected this in the redress proposal he set out. In addition,  he said 
Abacus should  pay Mr C £200 for the inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice to 
switch his pension.
He noted that Mr Cs previous pension provider had provided information on what the value  
of Mr Cs pension pot would have been if he had not transferred his pension pot. It said the 
transfer value  of pension pot would have been £117,998 on 5 October 2018.
Mr C accepted our investigators view.
Abacus didnt accept  our investigators view. It said it felt the advice it gave Mr C was 
suitable. It also queried the projected value that had been provided by Mr Cs former pension  
provider.
In particular, it said:
...could you provide us with [name  of pension  provider]  projected fund value for Mr C's 
pension had it remained invested with [name of pension provider] in the same  funds until 5 
October 2018. The information that we hold is that in October 2016 Mr C transferred  £84,538  
after we provided  advice that satisfied  his attitude  to risk to move towards a moderate risk 
portfolio.
I am finding it hard to believe that between  October  2016 to October 2018, the fund would  
have grown by 39.57% to £117,998. Based on historical performance and nature of the fund,  
this necessitates further enquiry.
It also said that the redress calculation set out by our investigator;
...does not factor in the charges of the [name of Mr Cs former pension  provider] scheme  and 
the advisor fee if the transfer  to [name of new pension provider] had taken place in 2018 and 
we continue to challenge the valuation provided  as a basis  for that redress.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 27 July 2020.  In my provisional 
decision I said I didnt think the advice Mr C received to move his pension  pot was suitable.
I noted that Abacus said it felt the advice it gave Mr C to transfer his pension pot to a new 
provider was suitable. But it had not explained  why it believed this to be the case in light of 
the concerns raised by our investigator.
In particular, it has not explained  why it felt the information it provided in its suitability report 
on the possible investment returns Mr C could expect were  clear, fair and not misleading.
In the absence of anything  to explain why it thought the comparison between  the possible 
investment returns was a fair, like for like comparison I said I couldnt reasonably  find that 
the advice was suitable.
I said that, if a like for like comparison had been  provided,  I didnt think Mr C would  have 
gone ahead  with advice to move  to a new pension provider in 2016.
I said I was also mindful  that despite Mr Cs previous pension provider offering free fund 
switches the adviser did not make clear that Mr C could move to a higher risk fund/s without 
needing to move to a new pension provider and incurring additional costs.
In any case it appeared  that Mr C was not comfortable with the higher level of risk in the fund 
recommended by Abacus. I noted  that in late 2018 Mr C instructed his adviser to move  his 
money to something  less volatile.
Ref: DRN00973754tax free lump sum and fund switch
Like our investigator,  I said I didnt  think Abacus  did anything wrong when it arranged for 
Mr C to receive the tax free lump  sum,  he was entitled to from his pension pot. It appears 
that Mr Cs pension provider incorrectly told Abacus  that the £22,251.67  quoted  in the 
illustration it provided on 5 October  2018 was the amount Mr C would receive.
I said I was also of the view that the delay in the fund switch was due to Mr Cs pension 
providers processes and this wasnt  something Abacus had any control over.
In view of this I said I didnt think this aspect of Mr Cs complaint against  Abacus should be 
upheld.
projected fund value provided
I carefully considered  the concerns Abacus raised about the notional fund value provided by 
Mr Cs previous pension  provider. Like Abacus, I was of the view that the valuation provided 
seemed higher than I would have expected.
On 20 July 2016, Mr Cs former pension  provider said the value of his plan was £82,318.72. 
In October  2016 a transfer value of £84,538.94 was sent to Mr Cs new pension provider. On 
14 January 2020,  Mr Cs former pension provider told this service:
Assuming the policy did not transfer the notional value as of 5 October 2018, would have 
been £117,998.03.
Based on this notional value  it appeared  that Mr Cs pension pot would have grown  by over 
£33,000 in less than two years. Given that Mr C had been invested  in a with-profits  fund this 
seemed unlikely.
I asked our investigator to contact  Mr Cs previous pension provider to query the valuations  it 
had provided. In particular, I asked  it to confirm that the figures provided to this service in 
January 2020  were  correct. I also asked it to provide some background (assuming the 
notional value provided in January 2020  was correct) as to why the value of a with-profits  
fund had increased so significantly.
Mr Cs former pension  provider sent the following response to this service:
We apologise for incorrect information being previously issued. The notional  value provided 
on 5 October 2018 was using both short term and long term with-profits  funds.
Whereas the other values had used only the long term fund.
The values that have used the long-term  fund are correct as that was the fund that the client  
was invested in.
We can confirm that the correct value for 5 October 2018, calculated  at 20 May 2020 would 
have been:
Transfer value - £100,171.88.
Fund value  - £62,797.82
Please note that these values are not guaranteed and can go up or down at anytime.
This service does not have the resources  to audit with-profit  fund values. But I said I thought 
that the revised value that Mr Cs former pension provider has calculated  was more  in-line  
with the growth  I would have expected.
Ref: DRN00973755I said that I appreciated that the reduced notional value will come as a disappointment to Mr 
C, but in order  to be fair to both parties  I did need  to ask Mr Cs former pension provider to 
check the notional  value it provided in January 2020  as it was much  higher than I would  
have expected.
what Mr C would have done when he took his tax free cash in 2018
Our investigator said he thought that Mr C would have moved his pension  pot to a more  
flexible pension plan when he took his tax free cash entitlement from this pension pot in 
2018.
When setting out the redress  calculation he said he thought it was reasonable to assume  
that Mr C wouldve been invested with the same product  provider Abacus had recommended  
in 2016. For the redress  calculation he said it should  use the performance of the fund that 
Mr C had switched into in October 2018.
I said I didnt think it was possible  to say with any certainty which  pension  provider  or fund 
Mr C would have chosen when he took his tax free cash, if he had been  advised to remain  
with his previous  pension  provider until he needed access to his pension  pot.
In view of this I said I didnt think the redress calculation should use the performance  of the 
fund Mr C was invested in from October 2018.  I said I thought it would  be fairer to use a 
benchmark instead. I set out in my provisional decision what  I consider to be a suitable 
benchmark.
In its response to our investigators view Abacus said that the redress  calculation  our 
investigator proposed;
...does not factor in the charges of the [name of Mr C's former  pension  provider] scheme and 
the advisor fee if the transfer  to [name of new pension provider] had taken place in 2018....
I said that I didnt think  it would be fair for the redress  calculation to allow for Abacus to 
receive an adviser fee. As I set out in my provisional  decision,  I didnt think  it gave Mr C 
suitable advice  in 2016 and I said I thought  it would  be unfair to expect Mr C to pay for this 
advice.
In reaching this provisional view I said I was mindful that if Mr C had remained with his 
existing provider until he needed access to his pension pot, when he contacted the provider 
about accessing his tax free lump  sum,  he would have  received a pack  setting  out the 
options open to him. There was no requirement  on Mr C to take financial advice.
I said I was of the view that Mr C could have arranged  to take the tax free cash  and move his 
remaining pension pot to another provider without needing advice.  He could therefore have 
avoided incurring the cost of financial advice.
Mr C responded to say that he accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add. He also noted that in the view our adjudicator sent it recommended that Abacus should 
pay him an additional £200  for the trouble  and upset this matter  had caused. Mr C said that 
he would  like me to consider an award  for trouble and upset  to the redress  to reflect the 
stress and anxiety this matter had caused him. He said that if any payment was awarded for 
the trouble and upset caused, he intended to donate it to a suitable charity.
Ref: DRN00973756Abacus also responded to my provisional decision.  It raised queries regarding the date the 
redress calculation was to be based  from. Our investigator confirmed that the date was set 
out in my provisional  decision. Abacus then said that;
I am a little concerned that we are being penalised from a compensation point of view 
because our advice  in 2016  was correct from a risk attitude point of view, and this was 
agreed again in 2017  review. Had we been  "allowed" to continue with that risk level our 
advice would have  stood the test of time and the value for re calculation  would  have been  
measurably different.
It does not seem correct  to me that we are paying  compensation  to the client for a result 
which was driven by his emotions, which we will of course take into account  yet we have to 
pay for that request and are seen to have disadvantaged the client  more that would seem 
"fair" as I am thinking outcomes need to consider both parties.
It subsequently said that it 
continue(s) to struggle with the finding that the client's original investment was at wrong  
risk, and the compensation will be based on that fact...  We confirmed  the risk level in the 
recommendation/suitability letter at the time of initial investment, and the same  the following 
year...we also provided a supporting questionnaire  for the risk level and at no point  was this 
questioned by the client and the recommendations were signed for as a re-enforcement  of 
being happy with the recommendations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I do not intend to depart from my provisional decision aside  for correcting 
my omission regarding the £200 our investigator  said he felt Abacus should pay Mr C for the 
trouble and upset  this matter has caused  him. Ill explain why.
Abacus hasnt provided anything to show that the advice it gave Mr C to move his personal  
pension pot to a new provider was suitable. As this is the case, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional view that the advice to move his pension pot was unsuitable.
In its response to my provisional decision Abacus says that it feels  it is being penalised 
because Mr C instructed it to move his pension pot to a lower risk fund in late 2018. As a 
result of this Abacus  says it is now has to pay more redress  than if Mr C hadnt switched to a 
lower risk fund.
I have carefully considered the points Abacus had made,  but I dont think it would  be fair or 
reasonable for Mr C to be penalised for choosing to switch to a lower risk fund when  he 
didnt feel the fund he was invested in was suitable for his attitude to investment risk. I note 
that in late 2018 Mr C instructed his adviser  to move his money  to something less volatile.
Abacus says that its advice in 2016  was correct from a risk attitude point of view,  and this 
was agreed again in 2017 review. I dont  agree  with Abacuss claim. I think  Mr C was not 
comfortable with the level of risk which is why he instructed it to move his funds to 
something less volatile. I think it is unreasonable for Abacus to seek to reduce the amount 
of compensation  it should pay Mr C because it feels he was driven  by his emotions when 
he instructed it to move his pension pot to a lower risk fund. 
Ref: DRN00973757As Abacus knows, it is required to ensure that any investment advice  it gives is suitable for a 
customers attitude to investment  risk and their capacity to take risk. I dont agree that Mr C 
is at fault for choosing  to switch to a lower risk fund if he was concerned about the volatility  
of the fund he was invested in. I think this is a clear indication that the fund recommended 
was too high risk for Mr Cs appetite  for risk.
I would also reiterate that the benchmarks I selected  in the redress I set out in my provisional 
decision were intended to reflect Mr C wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital. I 
explained that I felt the average rate for the fixed rate bonds  was a fair measure  for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without  risk to their capital. And the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income total return index is a fair measure for someone who was prepared 
to take some  risk to get a higher return.  I explained  that I was of the view that Mr C's risk 
profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to take a small level of risk to 
attain his investment  objectives. I remain of the view that a 50/50  combination  of these 
benchmarks would reasonably put Mr C into that position and would  broadly  reflect  the sort 
of return Mr C could have  obtained from investments suited to his objectives and risk 
attitude.
Having carefully re-considered this complaint I remain of the view that the advice Abacus 
gave Mr C was unsuitable.  I have set out below how I think it must put matters  right.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think  Mr C would have invested differently. 
Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that 
what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr C's circumstances and objectives  
when he invested.  
I dont think the advice Mr C received in 2016  to transfer his pension pot to a new provider 
was suitable. I do accept, however, that Mr C would have moved to a more flexible pension 
plan in October 2018 when he took his tax-free  cash entitlement.
Had he done so, based on the notional valuation his former  pension provider had supplied, 
he wouldve received a higher tax-free cash lump  sum and had a larger residual  pension  pot.
Mr Cs former pension  provider has reviewed the earlier notional value it provided to this 
service. It has now confirmed that if Mr C had kept his personal pension plan with it, it would 
have had a value as of £100,171.88 as at 5 October 2018.
I think Abacus should compensate Mr C for the reduced tax-free cash lump  sum he received  
in October 2018.  In addition, it should  compensate Mr C for any shortfall in the current  value  
of his pension  pot.
tax free cash
To compensate Mr C fairly for the lost tax-free  cash Abacus should:
Pay Mr C compensation  of C + D, where:
Ref: DRN00973758A = The tax-free  cash that Mr C would have received on 12 October  2018  (the date his 
current pension provider  paid the lump sum to him) based on the fund value he would have 
achieved if he had remained with his previous pension provider.
B = The tax-free  cash that Mr C actually received.
C = A - B, representing the loss on 12 October 2018;
D = Interest on C from 12 October 2018 to the date of payment of compensation at 8%
simple.
What should Abacus do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Abacus must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Abacus should  add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Abacus should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Abacus  is unable to pay the total amount into Mr C's pension  plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr C £200 for the trouble  and upset this matter has caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Abacus deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been  taken off. Abacus should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  interest
Ref: DRN00973759Residual 
pension pot 
after Mr C took 
25% tax free 
cash, based  on 
notional  value 
provided by Mr 
Cs former 
pension 
providerstill 
existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private  
Investors  
Income  Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date of 
settlement  (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Abacus should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank  of 
England. The rate for each  month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Those 
rates should  be applied  to the investment on an annually compounded  basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Abacus totals  all those payments and deducts  that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital  growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr C's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr C into that position.  It does not mean that Mr C would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr C could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
Ref: DRN009737510My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Abacus Financial Options Limited  should  pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Abacus Financial Options  Limited should provide details of its calculation  to Mr C in a clear,  
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 December  2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0097375