K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont  refund  him for debit card 
transactions which he says he didnt make  or otherwise authorise. 
Mr R has been helped  with his complaint by a representative Miss D, but for ease of reading, 
Ill refer to all submissions  as having  come  from Mr R himself.   
background
Mr R contacted Lloyds  on 14 November 2018  to report several unauthorised transactions 
totalling over £1400,  which were  carried out in the USA between 9 and 11 November 2018. 
Mr R says he was in the UK at the time, he doesnt have a valid passport to travel, and so he 
didnt carry out the transactions and shouldnt be held responsible  for them. 
Lloyds declined to refund Mr R; it said there had been no bank error. Its records  showed the 
transactions were  carried out using the genuine  card and corresponding Personal 
Identification Number (PIN). As Mr R had confirmed  his debit card had been in his 
possession at all times  and he had not written down or disclosed his PIN to anyone,  it 
concluded there was no point of compromise  and that he must  have made  or authorised the 
transactions. 
Mr R, unhappy with the response  from Lloyds, referred the complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint. She didnt  think the complaint should be 
upheld. She thought it was more likely than not that Mr R had authorised the transactions  in 
question. 
Mr R doesnt accept  this and has asked for an ombudsman  to review his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Generally, Lloyds can hold Mr R liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence  suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made  or otherwise authorised the transactions himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Rs genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions.  This is further supported by the fact that there were no 
further transactions attempted, once Mr R had reported the disputed transactions and 
cancelled his card. 
But, of course, this on its own, doesnt evidence that Mr R authorised the transactions. So 
Ive gone on to consider the events  surrounding the disputed transactions  and whether  the 
evidence suggests  that Mr R consented to them taking  place and as such authorised them.
Ref: DRN01594772I think there are a number  of possible scenarios  which could explain how the disputed 
transactions came to be made, these  are; 
-Mr R made the transactions himself;
-someone known  to Mr R made  the transactions with his authority; 
-someone known  to Mr R made  the transactions without his authority; or
-someone unknown  to Mr R made  the transactions without  his authority.
Ive considered which I think is the most  likely, taking into account  both, Mr R and Lloyds 
submissions. As I wasnt there when the transactions took place I cant know  for sure what  
has occurred; so its a decision Ive made  on the balance of evidence  and what  I think is 
most likely to have happened. And having considered everything I think the most likely 
explanation is that Mr R either carried  out the transactions himself or gave someone 
authority to do so and Ill explain  why;
-When Mr R reported the disputed transactions he still had the card in his possession.  
He told both Lloyds  and this service that the card had been in his possession at all 
times and that he hadnt made  anyone  else aware of his PIN or written it down. Mr R 
has been unable  to  provide a convincing explanation for how a third party couldve 
obtained his PIN, taken his card, made  the disputed transactions  across  several  days  
in another country  and returned  the card without him noticing. 
-Mr Rs current  account with Lloyds  was opened in September 2018  just over a 
month before the disputed transactions took place. Whilst limited, Ive looked back 
through Mr Rs transaction history to see the general  pattern of how Mr R used his 
account. The bank  records show that prior to the disputed  transactions taking  place, 
Mr R was using his card almost daily and frequently logging into his online banking.  I 
consider it unusual that during  the time period  that the alleged fraud took place; Mr R 
didnt use his card or log into his online  banking.  
-Our investigator asked what Mr R did for day to day expenditure  during  this time. 
Miss D advised that she helped  Mr R out with money. I can see prior to this Mr R 
regularly used his card and given his account had a credit  balance it seems unlikely 
he wouldve needed to borrow  money from Miss D. 
-The spending took place over 3 days and doesnt match what  Id typically expect to 
see from fraudulent use. Usually youd expect  a fraudster to make the most of having  
access to the card and PIN in the shortest amount of time to maximise their gain 
before the fraud is identified and the card blocked. 
-Ive also considered what Mr R has said about him not possessing a valid passport 
and the payslip he has provided to evidence that he was working at the time the 
transactions took place. However the payslip, in itself, isnt proof  that Mr R was in the 
country at the time the transactions  took place. And even if I were  to accept what  Mr 
R has said, this doesnt mean he couldnt have still authorised another person to 
make the transactions he now disputes.
Overall, Im not persuaded that the most likely explanation is that a third party took Mr Rs 
card without his consent, made the transactions,  and then returned  it to him without him 
noticing. I think it more  likely than not that Mr R made or otherwise authorised the 
transactions he disputes. I realise thats  a difficult message to give and indeed  receive. But I 
dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly  in holding  him liable for these transactions.
Ref: DRN01594773my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0159477