K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about the delay Haven  Insurance Company Limited caused while 
dealing with a theft claim  he made under his car insurance policy.  
background
Mr K bought a car insurance policy  with the insurer, Haven in October  2018.  Two weeks 
later Mr K reported the theft of his car to Haven  six days  after the event happened. 
In April 2019 Haven  told Mr K it was waiting for a police report and this delay was outside of 
its control. 
In June 2019 Mr K contacted us. Our investigator  thought Haven had caused a delay of 
around six weeks overall when it initially dealt with Mr Ks claim. He recommended  Haven 
pay Mr K £100 compensation. He thought it was reasonable for it to have requested the 
police report  and any delay beyond that request  was outside of its control. 
Mr K didnt agree. He said £100 compensation isnt enough to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience Havens  delay has caused him. 
Haven accepted the investigators findings. It says it asked Mr K to provide his bank details 
so that it can pay the £100 compensation. 
Since the investigator issued his view, Haven  has confirmed  that its settled Mr Ks claim. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. 
I agree  with the investigators recommendations to put things right. Ill explain why. 
Mr K reported the theft to Haven six days after the incident on 16 November 2018. He said 
he was approached by two people who mugged him as he was walking toward his car. He 
said he dropped  his bag with his car keys in the attack. He told Haven he travelled home to 
pick up a second set of car keys and asked a friend to safeguard his car in the meantime. 
But when he returned to his car, Mr K said it had been stolen.  Mr K said he reported  the 
matter to the police.
Haven arranged for Mr K to be video interviewed  on 4 December 2018. It didnt review  the 
interview until 7 January  2019  a month  later. It was at this stage it decided to request a 
police report. But it didnt request this until 22 January 2019  which was a delay  of a further 
two weeks. Haven has shown that it regularly chased for the report  since then  but was 
advised by the police  that there was a delay on their part. 
So I think Haven caused a delay of six weeks which is unreasonable. I think  it should have 
requested the police report much sooner. Haven should compensate Mr K for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused. However, I cant hold it response for any subsequent  delay in 
receiving the report. I understand  it must have been  an upsetting experience  for Mr K. And I 
think its reasonable to expect a degree  of inconvenience when having to deal with a claim. 
Ref: DRN03734862Overall I think  £100 compensation is a fair sum in reflection of the delay Haven is 
responsible for. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Haven Insurance Company Limited 
to pay Mr K (if it hasnt  already done  so) £100 compensation for the delay it caused. 
Haven Insurance  Company Limited must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date 
on which we tell it Mr K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Haven Insurance  Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs 
to withhold income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should  
also give Mr K a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0373486