K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received when he tried to make a claim against his 
private health insurance policy  with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.
background
In November 2017, Mr H took out a private  health insurance policy with AXA PPP.  In 
June 2018, Mr H contacted AXA PPP as he wished to make a claim for a procedure in 
relation to an ingrowing toenail that was causing him pain. AXA PPP told him that not all 
consultants and facilities are covered by his policy and that in some circumstances, it would 
cover only 60% of its agreed rates and hed be liable for the shortfall. AXA PPP asked  Mr H 
to get a referral  letter from his GP.
Mr H phoned AXA PPP with details of his referral letter.  AXA PPP sent Mr H details of one 
consultant but it failed  to notice that the consultant only had admission rights to a chain of 
hospitals not covered under Mr Hs policy. That meant AXA PPP wouldnt cover the full cost 
of treatment. In addition, the consultant  was about to go on holiday and was having difficulty 
fitting Mr H in. The procedure was planned for 28 June 2018.  The day before that, AXA PPP 
told Mr H that it would pay only 60% of the claim.  Mr H cancelled  the procedure with the 
consultant named by AXA PPP and subsequently had the procedure done  in the NHS.
In response to Mr Hs complaint, AXA PPP acknowledged that it had made  a mistake in that 
it didnt notice that the consultant only had admission rights to a chain of hospitals  not 
covered under the policy. It offered to cover  the cost of the procedure  in full. Mr H told 
AXA PPP that hed already had the procedure in the NHS. AXA PPP offered Mr H 
compensation of £250 in relation to his stress and inconvenience. 
Mr H says that he was in constant pain and he suffered considerable inconvenience and 
anxiety when trying to get an appointment with the consultant  and in trying to get 
confirmation of full cover from AXA PPP. Mr H says that the compensation of £250 AXA PPP 
has already offered isnt sufficient and that compensation of £1,000 is fair. He says that hes 
saved AXA PPP about £2,000 by having  treatment on the NHS, so fair compensation is 
around half of the cost for which AXA PPP would have been responsible.  
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She thought that the compensation 
of £250 AXA PPP had already paid was fair. Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said, 
in summary:
He hadnt received the level of service hed been promised. 
AXA PPP only provided him with the details  of one consultant.
When he agreed an appointment at the hospital  available for treatment, AXA PPP 
told him that it wouldnt cover all the costs. 
Given the level of pain he was in, this was an emergency and it should have been 
treated as an exception  to AXA PPPs normal rules on costs.
He hadnt claimed before.
AXA PPP said that there was nothing more it could do, which lacked  empathy  and 
professionalism. 
He was promised  a list of surgeons from which to choose but only received the name 
of one surgeon.
He couldnt  communicate with AXA PPP on the day to discuss  the matter.
He endured several painful days before  his treatment on the NHS.
Ref: DRN00730672There were further exchanges  between the investigator and Mr H, which I wont  set out here. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy  includes the following:
If you have  treatment at a hospital  or day-patient unit thats not in the hospital list 
but is still recognised  by AXA PPP healthcare, we will only pay 60% of the charges 
that AXA PPP healthcare would normally pay to that hospital or day-patient unit. 
You will be responsible for paying the remaining charges.
AXA PPP drew Mr Hs attention to this before he took out the policy and when he first 
contacted it about making a claim. 
In its final response to Mr H, AXA PPP says that it made an error  in failing to notice that the 
consultant only had admission rights  to a chain of hospitals not covered by Mr Hs policy.  Ive 
looked at AXA PPPs notes and it appears  that between 21 and 27 June 2018, Mr H was left 
with the impression that AXA would  cover the full cost of the procedure  when  that wasnt in 
fact the case.  
AXA reconsidered the matter and agreed  to cover  the full cost.  By the time it did so, Mr H 
had, understandably, cancelled  the authorised procedure  and pursued  the matter  with the 
NHS. 
AXA PPP isnt obliged to provide a list of consultants. The availability of consultants  in 
particular specialties isnt in AXA PPPs  control  and may change during the policy. But I think  
AXA PPP was at fault in providing only details of a consultant which  would lead to Mr H 
being responsible for part of the charges  and not informing him of the true position sooner.  I 
dont think that AXA PPP was responsible for the fact that the consultant was about to go on 
holiday and, therefore,  had difficulties accommodating Mr H.
The remaining  issue  for me to decide is the appropriate level of compensation. I think  that 
the compensation of £250 that AXA PPP has already paid is fair. As the investigator 
explained, in assessing compensation we dont  seek to punish the business. We look to see 
the extent of the distress and inconvenience caused  by any error.  Here, Mr H was 
disappointed to discover that AXA PPP wouldnt  cover  the full cost of the procedure.  And he 
suffered some delay  and inconvenience in pursuing alternative care In the NHS. I dont think  
its appropriate to assess compensation  based on the cost of the procedure AXA PPP 
eventually authorised. That cost isnt related to Mr Hs  distress  and inconvenience.   
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H but, considering everything, I think  that the compensation 
AXA PPP has already  paid is fair. 
Ref: DRN00730673my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0073067