K821x#15complaint
Mrs B, represented by her husband, complains that J D Williams  & Company  Limited  should 
have defaulted  her accounts  earlier,  and also about  some related issues.
background
Mrs B has three catalogue shopping  accounts with JD Williams, all in her sole name. In 2008  
she ran into financial difficulties and made  reduced payments of £10 a month,  until 2014 
when her husband told JD Williams that the debts were unenforceable  because  JD Williams  
could not provide a signed  copy of the executed credit agreements. JD Williams  stopped 
collections activity on the accounts, and Mrs B stopped making payments. JD Williams 
defaulted the accounts. Mrs B complained that the accounts should have been defaulted in 
2008, or at the latest in May 2009, and in that case they would have stopped being reported 
on her credit  file after six years. In 2019  she complained  that instead they continued to 
appear on her credit  file, making it hard for her to obtain credit. She also complained about 
some other issues: one of the accounts had the wrong date of birth and the wrong address 
on it, making her suspect that it had been  opened fraudulently. Also,  an error had resulted in 
another account wrongly appearing on her credit file since 2017.
JD Williams apologised for that last error, and removed it from the credit file. It offered Mrs B 
£150. At first it told us that it had increased this offer to £200 when the correction was 
delayed by a month,  but it has since checked its records and realised that this revised offer 
was not in fact communicated  to Mrs B. It increased  that offer to £250.  But it did not accept 
that it had done anything  else wrong,  so Mrs B brought this complaint  to our Service,  
represented by her husband.  Mr B also asked that JD Williams provide a breakdown of a 
£100 administration fee that had been  charged  on each account. And he said that JD 
Williams had not complied with a subject  access request.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She agreed that the accounts should have been 
defaulted earlier. JD Williams did not agree  with that opinion,  but because it could not prove  
that proper default notices  had been sent in 2014,  it still agreed  to backdate the defaults  to 
October 2009, with the result that  being more  than six years ago  the defaults  were 
removed from Mrs Bs credit file. JD Williams did this promptly,  without waiting to see if Mr 
and Mrs B would  ask for an ombudsmans decision.  The investigator did not uphold  the rest 
of this complaint.  She said the £100 fee was in the account  terms and conditions  and that JD 
Williams was entitled to charge it, and was not obliged to provide  a breakdown of how it had 
been calculated  (other than to say that it was ten per cent of the account balance, capped  at 
a maximum of £100). The wrong date of birth had been entered online by Mrs B when she 
opened the account, so it was not JD Williams  fault.  The subject access  request was now 
being dealt with. She thought the revised  offer of £250 for the error  in 2017 was fair.
Mr B did not accept that decision. He asked  for all of the debts to be written  off, and at least  
£1,000 compensation. So the investigator referred this case  for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have decided  that the 
revised offer of £250  is fair compensation, and I will not require JD Williams to do more to 
resolve this complaint. I will explain why.
Ref: DRN07447152Although the wrong address and the wrong  date of birth were entered  in the details of an 
account, there is no evidence that this is because the accounts, or any of them, were 
opened fraudulently by some third party. Mrs B kept up her monthly payments until 2008, 
and then continued to make  reduced  payments until 2014. She wouldnt have done that if 
the accounts were  nothing to do with her, and if that was the case then I think  she would 
have realised straight away, when they were opened. So there is no reason  to think  that the 
accounts are not hers,  and that the debts are hers (although  the parties agree that they are 
unenforceable without a court order).  I therefore think  that these errors are harmless and 
have had no impact on her finances,  and so I have not investigated  whose fault they were.
The £100  administration  fee was clearly  set out in the terms and conditions, and JD Williams 
was entitled to charge them. After twelve years, JD Williams can no longer provide any more  
information about how the fees are calculated or what they are for beyond  what it already 
says in the terms and conditions,  which our investigator has quoted to Mr and Mrs B. I think 
that is sufficient information in any event,  and JD Williams has done enough in relation to 
this issue.
I actually dont agree that JD Williams should  have defaulted the accounts in 2009,  or on any 
other date earlier  than August 2014,  because  Mrs B was still making payments until 2014. 
Its likely  that she kept paying  £10 a month  on each account in order to avoid a default, and 
she would  probably  have complained if the accounts had been defaulted in spite  of her 
making those payments.  But whether  that was the case  or not, it remains  the case that 
where a lender agrees  to accept reduced  payments,  it should not normally record a default, 
as long as its customer  continues to comply  with the agreed  arrangement. A default  is for 
when a customer refuses or fails to make  payments.  In considering this matter, I have had 
regard to Principle  4 in the guidelines published  by the Information  Commissioners  Office, 
Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements  and Defaults at Credit  Reference 
Agencies.
JD Williams accepts that it cant prove  that it sent a default  notice  to Mrs B in 2014, but 
I agree  with the investigators opinion that this does not mean  that the accounts should not 
have been defaulted. It is clear  that Mrs B had made  up her mind  to stop making  payments 
on the accounts, and so the defaults were an inevitable consequence of her decision. If she 
had received a proper  default notice, I think she would still have stuck  to her guns and 
stopped making  payments, and so the failure to send her a notice (if thats  what  happened; 
I make  no finding about that either  way) did not make  any difference  to what happened,  or 
cause her any disadvantage.
I therefore think that JD Williams was entitled  to default the accounts in 2014. Consequently, 
it follows that JD Williams  was reporting  accurate information about those three accounts 
between 2014  and 2019, when it removed them. So I do not uphold that part of this 
complaint. However,  although I would normally tell JD Williams that it may report  the defaults 
until the end of the period  of six years from when they first reported,  I will not do so this time.  
They would only be reported until August or September this year  that is, for another three 
or four months from now, as I write this  and then have to be taken off again. That would be 
unnecessarily pedantic of me, and might also have  a disproportionate effect on Mrs B during 
the coronavirus lockdown. So, having regard to the principle that a business should have 
due regard to its customers  interests  and treat them fairly,  I think  that on the facts of this 
case, it would be fair and reasonable of me to tell JD Williams not to reinstate the defaults, 
although that is a departure from what I would  usually  do. (The basis  on which  I am making 
this order is as part of the redress for the error which JD Williams agrees it made  in 2017, 
which I discuss in the next paragraph.  Although  they are different issues, both issues relate 
Ref: DRN07447153to the impact  on Mrs Bs credit file, so I think it is fair to consider them  together  in the round, 
and to take the history of this whole  complaint  into account when  deciding  what  is fair 
redress.)
It is not in dispute  that an account was wrongly added to Mrs Bs credit file in 2017 by 
mistake. That has since  been removed, but while it was still there I doubt that it would  have 
made very much difference  to any creditworthiness assessments, given the three  defaults  
which I have found were correctly being  reported during that time. So I think that the apology  
JD Williams has made, and its current offer of £250  compensation, together with my order 
not to reinstate the three  defaults which were  removed  last year, is fair compensation for that 
issue. So on that limited  basis, I uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order J D Williams  & Company Limited  to 
pay Mrs B the £250 it has offered her (which is made up of the £150 it originally offered her 
in its final response letter  dated 26 February 2019,  and the further £100 it offered in its email  
to our investigator on 9 September).
I also order J D Williams  & Company not to restore the defaults back  to her credit file (which  
it would  otherwise be obliged to do).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B, or Mr B on 
her behalf,  to accept  or reject my decision before  19 June 2020. If she does not accept it, 
then it will not be binding  on either party; if she accepts it, then both parties will be bound  by 
it. In either case, my decision is final and so I will not be commenting  any further on the 
merits of this complaint.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0744715