K820x#14complaint
Mr N is unhappy  that Calpe  Insurance  Company  Limited  refused  to settle  his 
claim  and cancelled  his car insurance  policy.
background
Mr N had car insurance  with Calpe.  In mid-October  2018,  Mr N parked  his car in a 
private  car park for a few days.  When  he returned  to his car he discovered  it had 
been  badly  damaged  by a fire. So, he contacted  Calpe  to make  a claim.
Calpe  investigated  the claim  and valued  the car at around  £40,000.  Mr N also hired  
his own assessor,  who valued  the car at around  £80,000.
In the end, Calpe  rejected  Mr N's claim  and cancelled  (voided)  his policy,  relying  
on the following  policy  terms:
6. Fraudulent  Claims
If You or anyone  acting  on Your  behalf
Makes  any claim  or any part of any claim  that is fraudulent.  false  or exaggerated  
or supported  by any fraudulent  device;
We or the Underwriters  may
Immediately  cancel  or avoid  Your  Policy  and/or  all other  Policies  which  You have  
with us from  the date of the claim  arising.
Refuse  to pay the claim  in its entirety.
Recover  from  you any costs  incurred  by the 
Underwriters.  Retain  any premium  paid by You...
This was because  Calpe  found  evidence  Mr N had advertised  his car for sale prior to 
the fire, but denied  this when  questioned  about  it. So Calpe  thought  Mr N had lied in 
an attempt  to get his claim  paid.  It was also concerned  about  some  other  
inconsistencies  it discovered  in Mr N's evidence.
Mr N complained  to us and one of our investigators  looked  into his complaint  and didn't  
think  it should  be upheld.  He was satisfied  that Calpe  had acted  reasonably  by relying  
on the fraud  condition  to reject  Mr N's claim.
Mr N disagreed  with our investigator.  He said he didn't  post the advert  and it must  have  
been  done  by someone  else fraudulently.  And Mr N asked  for an ombudsman's  
decision.
Another  ombudsman  reviewed  the complaint  and issued  a provisional  decision  
upholding  it. This was on the basis  that, even  if Mr N had placed  the advert,  he 
couldn't  have  gained  financially  by doing  so. And - in his opinion  - this meant  it wasn't  
fair and reasonable  for Calpe  to rely the fraud  condition  to reject  Mr N's claim.
Ref: DRN02278642Mr N accepted  the provisional  decision  in principle,  although  he has raised  some  
concerns  around  how much  Caple  would  pay for his car if it had to settle  the claim.
Calpe  didnt  accept  the provisional  decision.  It said Mr N breached  the terms  of the 
policy  multiple  times  in providing  information  to support  his claim  which  he knew  to be 
false.  And it pointed  out the detailed  report  it had provided  by an investigator  which  
outlines  the several  concerns  it has. 
And Calpe  didn't  think  the ombudsman  had applied  the case  law correctly  that he took 
into account  when  reaching  his provisional  decision.  It specifically  pointed  out the lie it 
thinks  Mr N told to hide the fact he'd advertised  his car for sale could  have  led to them  
accepting  a claim  that was highly  suspicious  and unsound.  And it thought  it could  also 
have  led to him getting  more  if it had agreed  to settle  the claim.
I issued  a provisional  decision  dated  4 June  2020  and I said the following:
my provisional  findings
I've considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Having  done  so, I don't  intend  to 
uphold  it.
In its final response  letter  to Mr N, Calpe  only mentioned  the fact he'd lied about  
advertising  his car on-line  as the reason  for rejecting  his claim.  Its view was that this 
entitled  it to rely on the fraud  condition  in the policy,  which  I've set out above.  But in 
response  to the provisional  decision  it has provided  a further  report  from its 
investigator  which  raises  other  concerns  about  the claim  and what  Mr N said when  he 
was interviewed.  And,  while  Calpe  hasn't  raised  these  concerns  directly  in 
correspondence  with Mr N, the investigator  did raise  them  with him at interview.  And I 
think  I need  to consider  them  when  deciding  what  the fair and reasonable  outcome  to 
this complaint  is.
First of all, I want  to make  it clear  that I think  the evidence  Calpe  has provided  shows  
it's more  likely  than not that Mr N advertised  his car for sale on-line  a short  time before  
it was damaged  and then denied  this when  the investigator  asked  him about  it. This is 
because  the website  concerned  confirmed  the advert  showed  Mr N's email  address,  
telephone  number  and the IP address  was in a post code  for a property  that Calpe  has 
shown  Mr N is closely  linked  to. There  are also numerous  photographs  of the car with 
the advert  and one of these  is the same  as a photograph  on Mr N's mobile  phone,  
which  was taken  three  days  before  the advert.
I appreciate  Mr N has suggested  his details  were  used  fraudulently,  but I think  it's more  
likely  than not that he placed  the advert  and then denied  this when  the investigator  
spoke  to him. I think  this means  he did support  his claim  by making  a fraudulent  
statement.  And I'm satisfied  this means  Mr N used  a fraudulent  device,  as it seems  
likely  he tried to hide the fact he'd advertised  his car for sale to improve  the chances  of 
his claim  being  successful  and to make  sure he received  as much  as possible  for his 
car. I appreciate  that ultimately  it may not have  made  any difference  to what  Mr N 
received  for his car, as Calpe  had expert  evidence  on its value  and knew  about  its 
history.  But I think  it could  have  made  a difference.
Ref: DRN02278643I think  Mr N made  at least  one other  false  statement  in support  of his claim.  I say this 
because  Mr N was asked  if he'd found  out anything  about  the history  of the car after 
he'd bought  it and he said he hadn't.  This is detailed  at point  43 of the statement  he 
made  in January  2018.  But Calpe  has provided  evidence  to show  that Mr N was told in 
an online  chat that the car had been  written  off several  times  and may have  been  
resprayed  and not properly  repaired.  And Mr N later accepted  that he had been  
involved  in this online  exchange.  So he clearly  had found  more  about  the history  of the 
car and originally  tried to hide this from Calpe.  And this information  could  have  made  a 
significant  difference  to what  he received  for the car in settlement  of his claim.  This is 
because  a car with the sort of history  suggested  in the chat would  be worth  a lot less 
than one in good  condition,  which  hadn't  already  been  written  off several  times.  And 
the chat even  raised  the fact that it may not have  even  been  the car which  related  to 
the VIN plate.
This means  I think  it's more  likely  than not that Mr N made  at least  two fraudulent  
statements  in support  of his claim.  And I think  he could  have  gained  a financial  
advantage  from at least  one of these  statements.  And the other  one would  at least  
have  improved  the prospect  of his claim  being  successful  and may have  led to him 
gaining  a financial  advantage.  In view of this, I'm satisfied  Calpe's  decision  to rely on 
the fraud  condition  I've mentioned  above  to reject  Mr N's claim  and cancel  his policy  is 
fair and reasonable  and it would  not be appropriate  for me to interfere  with it.
Unfortunately,  despite  rejecting  Mr N's claim  Calpe  disposed  of the damaged  car when  
it was his property.  But this happened  a long time after Mr N brought  his complaint  to 
us, so it's not appropriate  for me to comment  on it. Mr N can of course  make  a new 
complaint  about  this to Calpe  and then to us if he wants  to.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I've provisionally  decided  not to uphold  Mr N's complaint.
I gave  both parties  a month  to provide  further  points  or information.  
Calpe  has responded  to say it has nothing  further  to add and that it accepts  my 
provisional  decision.  
Mr N has provided  a letter  from his solicitor  making  the following  points:
Until the matter was considered by the Financial  Ombudsman Service  it had not been  in 
the contemplation of Calpe to void the Policy for any reason for anything other than the 
allegedly fraudulent claim by Mr N that he had not placed an advert for the sale of the 
insured vehicle in the six months prior to the fire giving rise to the claim.
They think  this is the issue  I need to consider and not the later position taken by Calpe in 
retrospect, which formed the basis of my provisional  decision. 
Theyve then gone on to point out that I have based my view that Mr N placed the advert  
for his vehicle on-line  on the balance of probabilities when the only evidence  presented  
on this issue is that the website  has confirmed  that someone else other  than Mr N logged 
into his account  and placed  the advert.  And theyve pointed out it would be easy for a 
Ref: DRN02278644hacker or scammer to have obtained pictures of the vehicle from the multiple  pictures 
posted by Mr N on several social media  platforms.  
Theyve said that even if Mr N did place the advert the decision by Calpe to classify his 
statement that he didnt as fraudulent is unreasonable.  Theyve  quoted the term in Mr Ns 
policy relating to him providing inaccurate  or misleading information to back  this up. 
Theyve also suggested that it wouldnt  be fair and reasonable  to class this as a 
fraudulent device, as this ignores the minimal impact this alleged lie would have had on 
the total amount payable on the claim.  And theyve pointed out the ombudsman who 
issued the previous provisional decision on this case said this lie could never have 
affected how much Mr N received for his car if his claim was successful. They think  the 
appropriate remedy if Mr N did provide this misleading piece of information  would be a 
just and reasonable reduction of the claim.  
Theyve said even if I do take into account the evidence around the on-line chat around 
what I think was likely  to be Mr Ns vehicle, they dont  agree the statement made by an 
anonymous online  entity amounted to new information about Mr Ns vehicle that he was 
required to disclose.  Theyve pointed out the vehicle had been inspected and had a valid 
MOT and an up to date service  history. Theyve  gone on to explain  the individual  who 
told Mr N of the alleged  history  was entirely unknown to him and what he said appeared 
to him at the time as nothing more than speculation.  Theyve  argued  that in light of this, 
expecting Mr N to have  disclosed  this information is simply too higher bar and 
unreasonable. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have noted what  Mr Ns solicitor has said about the advert  placed  on a website. And I have 
seen what the website concerned has said about this. But I set out the other  evidence  that I 
considered on this issue in my provisional  decision,  which made me think it is more likely 
than not that Mr N placed the advert.  The advert  was placed  from an IP address which 
belongs to a property that Mr N is closely linked with. And one of the photographs in the 
advert is from Mr Ns mobile phone, although  I appreciate he may have posted this on social  
media at some point.  Also, the contact details in the advert were Mr Ns, so I cannot  really 
see what a hacker or scammer could have achieved  by placing such  an advert. So, it 
remains my view that it is more likely  than not that Mr N placed the advert  and then denied  
this when Calpes  investigator asked him about  it. 
I have also noted  Mr Ns solicitors point that it would not be fair and reasonable to count this 
as a fraudulent  device,  although I dont think the part of the policy  wording its quoted is 
relevant. I think the relevant part is on fraudulent claims as quoted above. And I think that it 
does produce and fair and reasonable outcome to treat what I consider to be a lie by Mr N 
as a fraudulent  device  in accordance with this term. This is because  I think  it increased his 
chances of his claim being accepted.  I say this because if hed told Calpe hed advertised it 
for sale not long before  it was damaged by fire, it may well have carried  out further enquiries 
and discovered  more about the history of the car and its likely selling price. 
Ive also noted  what Mr Ns solicitor  has said about the on-line chat.  But I dont accept Mr Ns 
failure to mention this when asked whether hed found out anything  further  about  the car was 
Ref: DRN02278645reasonable. I appreciate that the person who contacted him was unknown to him, but he had 
commented in detail on the history  of the car and why it may well have been the same car 
Mr N had. So I think Mr N should at least have  mentioned this when he was asked if hed 
found out anything more  about the car. And I am satisfied that by not doing so he was 
seeking to gain a financial advantage. This is because he would have realised if this 
information had been passed  to Calpe it could offer him a lot less in settlement of his claim 
on the basis his vehicle was worth a lot less than he and his assessor  had suggested. This 
means I also view this as a fraudulent device as set out in the abovementioned  policy term.
I am also satisfied I should take Mr Ns failure to mention  the on-line chat into account when 
deciding what the fair and reasonable outcome  to this case is. This is because  I have to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And this is part of the 
circumstances around Mr Ns claim. And the issue is clearly evidenced in the case file 
provided by Calpe and was raised  directly with Mr N during the course  of the claim by 
Calpes investigator.  Also,  Calpe raised  it as an issue it thought should be considered in its 
response to the provisional decision issued by another ombudsman  prior to mine.  
In summary,  it remains my view that Mr N supported his claim by two fraudulent devices and 
that Calpe  is entitled to decline  his claim in accordance with the policy  term I have set out 
above. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  dated 4 June 2020 my final 
decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 August 2020.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0227864