K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) have mishandled  his personal data.
background
Mr G opened a bank  account with TSB in 2009, and used the passport from his home 
country outside of the UK as his proof of identity. Mr G subsequently became a British  citizen  
in September  2015, when he says he provided  TSB with a copy of his British passport in 
order to update their records.
But towards the end of July 2018, Mr G realised that the bank are still using his previous 
passport, and that his nationality had not been  updated. TSB said they had no record of 
Mr G making the branch  visit, and said that the branch he visited  has since  closed down. But 
they said that if he can provide another copy of his passport, they will update his records.
Mr G was unhappy with this, as he feels the copy of his new passport has been lost, 
meaning that his data and account  may have been  compromised. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Gs complaint. She didnt think there  was enough  evidence  
to suggest that TSB had lost or misplaced a copy of Mr Gs identity document,  and 
considered that their offer to update his records again was fair, so she didnt award  any 
compensation. 
Mr G disagreed, as he does not feel TSB are taking proper  responsibility of their customers 
data, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
I appreciate that Mr G would feel aggrieved by having to ask TSB to do something  more than 
once. And I understand that he may be concerned that his details may have been lost. TSB 
have no record of Mr Gs visit, and the branch he says he visited  in 2015 has since  closed 
down, so it isnt possible  to say one way or another why his records  were not updated.  
But TSB have explained  that when they take a copy of a passport in branch, they would 
usually stamp and verify it, at which point they would update their internal records. Following 
this, the document would be sent by their internal post to be scanned  and destroyed.  I 
havent seen enough to persuade me that TSB have lost Mr Gs personal data, and neither 
is there any evidence  to suggest that it has fallen into the wrong  hands.  And given the large 
amount of sensitive information handled  daily by a bank,  I consider its most likely the 
document was destroyed in line with their standard procedures.
TSB have  said that if Mr G is able to send another copy of his passport, they will ensure his 
records are appropriately  updated. Mr G says he has no faith that his records  will actually be 
updated if he provides his passport  again. I appreciate why he might be sceptical of this. But 
should the same thing  happen again,  I would  fully expect TSB to investigate what is going 
wrong with their internal processes such that the same mistake could happen twice, and to 
look at how they could compensate Mr G. But given  the circumstances, I think their offer to 
try and update  his record again is fair. And given that there is nothing to suggest  Mr Gs data 
Ref: DRN05366952or account has been compromised at this stage,  I wont be asking TSB to do anything 
further.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0536695