K821x#15complaint
Mrs D says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about eight instalment loans Sunny  provided  to Mrs D between June 2015 
and December 2015. Mrs Ds lending history with Sunny is as follows:
LoanDate
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest
Repayment
1 10/06/2015 27/10/2015 6 £400.00 £122.46
2 05/07/2015 27/08/2015 6 £50.00 £138.19
3 08/09/2015 16/11/2015 6 £200.00 £183.75
4 02/10/2015 16/11/2015 6 £100.00 £215.83
5 05/11/2015 16/11/2015 6 £150.00 £140.38
6 05/12/2015 Outstanding 
Balance6 £250.00 £78.22
7 09/12/2015 Outstanding
Balance
Balance6 £150.00 £123.84
8 15/12/2015 Outstanding 
Balance6 £250.00 £274.90
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ds complaint and thought  that Sunny shouldnt  have given  
Mrs D loans 5 to 8 as proportionate checks wouldve shown she was having  issues  
managing her money. Sunny  didnt agree with the adjudicators  view,  it said it carried  out 
adequate checks  and didnt lend to her irresponsibly. As no agreement could be reached, 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs D could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN06339622the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mrs D could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ds complaint.  There doesnt appear to be any 
outstanding dispute about whether  the first 4 loans were suitable for Mrs D, so I dont intend 
to make a finding about these loans in this decision.  Instead Ill be focusing on Sunnys 
decision to provide loans five onwards. 
Our adjudicator explained that had Sunny  carried out proportionate checks  for loan 5 it 
would have shown  Mrs D was having problems managing  her money. I agree  with this 
reasoning and dont think Sunny should have given Mrs D this loan because:
by this stage, Mrs D had two outstanding loans with Sunny which would  be running 
alongside loan 5. Mrs D also had loans with other pay day lenders which Sunny 
wouldve seen had an appropriate amount of information been gathered about 
Mrs Ds finances. The loans Mrs D had were  also taken  out within months of each 
other. 
This shows Mrs D was potentially having  issues managing her finances because  she 
was relying on short  term credit to cover  ongoing shortfalls in her finances.  And 
knowing this, there  was a significant risk the loan couldnt be repaid sustainably,  
without undue difficulty or without the need to borrow again. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs D, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the circumstances of Mrs Ds case, I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say 
this because:
Ref: DRN06339623At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mrs D was not managing  to repay  her 
loans sustainably. Mrs D had taken  out six loans in around  six months. So Sunny 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mrs D was having to borrow  further 
to cover the hole repaying her previous loans was leaving in her finances and that 
Mrs Ds indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.  
The amounts  Mrs D was borrowing from Sunny  were not decreasing  over the course 
of the lending relationship. Which shows her financial  situation  was not improving 
over time.
Mrs D wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan  8 was 
taken around six months after Mrs Ds first one and was at the higher end of the 
amounts she normally  borrowed.  And as these were instalment loans Mrs D was 
paying large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Sunny  over an 
extended period.
I think that Mrs D lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ds indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mrs D borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mrs Ds ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 5 to 8 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Mrs D loans 5 to 8.
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back  if it are able to do so
and then take the following steps. If Sunny is unable to buy the debts back then it should
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made  by Mrs D towards
interest, fees and charges on loan 5, not including anything you have already 
refunded.
Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual payments made by 
Mrs D which  were considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mrs D originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
Sunny  should  remove all interest,  fees and charges  from the balances  of loans 6 to 
8, and treat any repayments made  by Mrs D as though they had been repayments of 
the principal on these loans. If this results in Mrs D having  made overpayments then 
Sunny should  refund  these overpayments  with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
Ref: DRN06339624complaint is settled. Sunny should  then refund  the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should  be paid to Mrs D. However if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan 
with Mrs D.
Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  recorded on Mrs Ds credit file in 
relation to loan 5. The overall pattern of Mrs Ds borrowing for loans 6 to 8 means 
any information recorded about  them is adverse, so Sunny should  remove these 
loans entirely from Mrs Ds credit file. If Sunny has sold any of the loans it should ask 
the debt purchaser to do the same. Sunny does not have to remove any outstanding 
loans from Mrs Ds credit file until these have been repaid, but Sunny should still 
remove any adverse information  recorded  about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest.  Sunny should  give
Mrs D a certificate showing  how much  tax youve deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Ds complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay put things right for Mrs D as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0633962