K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that the fixed sum loan agreement arranged by 1st Stop Personal Loans  
Limited (the business)  was misrepresented.
background 
Mr L entered into a loan agreement in May 2016  arranged by the business. The loan was for 
£12,000 plus a £900 arrangement fee. He says the loan was sold to him as having  an 
interest rate of 10.2%  a year and the loan was repayable over five years.  The monthly  
repayment amounts  were  set out as £324.65. 
Mr L received a loan statement in May 2018 which  he says showed that the 10.2% interest 
rate wasnt  being  applied  and instead he was paying a higher  rate.
The business says that the account statement provided was correct and detailed how the 
interest and principle amounts are apportioned to each month. It says that the settlement 
figure provided was correct.
The business says that Mr Ls loan agreement  set out information  about the 10.2% interest  
rate alongside the annual percentage rate (APR). It said it had provided  correct information 
and calculated the loan correctly.
Our adjudicator thought that the information Mr L had been provided  with before he entered 
into the loan was sufficient for him to make an informed decision. She said Mr L had agreed 
to the repayment  amounts and interest charged. However she recommended  that the 
business paid Mr L £200 to compensate him for the time taken to address his complaint. The 
business accepted this. 
Mr L didnt accept our adjudicators view. He reiterated that he had agreed the interest rate 
of 10.2% and that this hadnt  been applied to his loan. He said because the 10.2% rate 
hadnt been applied his monthly repayments  were  too high. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The loan agreement  clearly sets out the terms of the loan. These include the monthly 
payment details and total amount payable for the credit provided.  Based on this I find that 
Mr L had enough  information to decide  whether or not he wished to enter into the loan. By 
signing the loan agreement, Mr L agreed  to its terms.
Mr L has said that he relied on the information  that the loan had an interest rate of 10.2%. 
The loan agreement  sets out that interest  is charged  at a fixed  flat rate of 10.2% for the term 
of the loan. It then has the APR recorded  as 22.9%.
I can see from the calculations provided  that the fixed  flat rate has been applied based  on 
the £12,000 loan plus £900 fees. A flat rate interest  calculation is based on the initial  loan 
balance. Multiplying £12,900 by 10.2% gives an amount of £1,135.80. Multiplying this by five 
years gives  the total amount of interest  recorded  in the loan agreement of £ 6,579. 
Ref: DRN04352782I understand Mr Ls comments about  the loan amortising but a flat rate is based  on the initial  
loan balance. I can appreciate the confusion that has been caused however, given the total 
amount of interest  payable is clearly set out I think it reasonable to accept that Mr L 
understood how much the loan would cost him and agreed to this.
The loan agreement  also has an APR which could  be used for comparison purposes against 
other forms of finance and had Mr L been  unhappy with the rate he didnt have to agree  to 
the loan.
Mr L has been provided with a schedule for the loan which shows  how his payments are 
allocated between the interest,  fees and principle amount. This shows the payment amount 
and reflects  the information set out in the loan agreement.
Overall, while  I understand that Mr L feels he has not received the loan he expected, based 
on what I have seen  I find that he was provided with the information  he needed to make  an 
informed decision.  
I do agree  that Mr L could  have been  provided  with better service while his complaint was 
being dealt with and agree £200 compensation is reasonable  in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that 1st Stop Personal  Loans  Limited should,  as it has agreed,  pay Mr L 
£200 compensation for the time taken  dealing with his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0435278