K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  The complaint is brought  on her behalf by a claims management company.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Hs credit card account when she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs H disagreed, 
but her representative  did not provide any further  comment or evidence,  so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint because:
The credit card application form included equally clear options  to accept or decline the 
PPI. The yes box has been  ticked to show that Mrs H wanted it. So, overall,  I think 
Capital One made Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it - 
although I can understand why she can no longer remember  this, given it took place so 
long ago.
Capital One didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have  to check if it was 
suitable for her.
Its possible  the information Capital One gave  Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mrs H chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy  was competitively priced and apparently  affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mrs H would  have made  a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On 
balance I think she would still have  taken out the policy.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Mrs H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN05820002my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0582000