K821x#15Complaint
Mrs G complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco Bank) rejected the claim she 
made to them  under  Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 about a problem shed  
experienced with a car she had purchased using her credit card.
Background
In November 2017 Mrs G bought a used Ford Kuga from a car dealership (the merchant). 
The car was registered in January 2009 and had driven around 131,000 miles. It came with 
a full service history and an 18 month warranty was sold alongside it. Mrs G paid £1,545  
towards the car on her Tesco Bank credit card  in total she paid £4,839, which  included  the 
warranty.
Mrs G experienced some  issues with the car electrics in the first few months which the 
merchant paid to repair. She experienced further issues  with the instrument cluster in 
April 2018 and with the diesel particulate  filter in July 2018  that she paid to repair.  But in 
August 2018 the car broke down  it was towed to a garage Ill refer to as M (an authorised  
Ford Repairer) who assessed the damage. This revealed a broken timing belt and 
considerable damage to the engine,  such that she was told the repairs would cost £3,995.
Mrs G complained, saying that shed  bought  the car because it had a full service  history.  She 
said the merchant  told her they had serviced  the car before it was sold to her and advised it 
was all up to date.  She said she was also sold the warranty on this basis.  But Mrs G said 
she was told by M that the timing belt hadnt been  replaced and under the manufacturers  
guidelines it should have been replaced  at 125,000  miles or 10 years, whichever came first. 
As the car had done 131,034 miles when sold to Mrs G, M told her it ought to have been 
replaced in one of the recent  services.  
Mrs G wasnt  able to claim under the warranty because it included  a clause saying the timing  
belt had to be replaced in accordance with the manufacturers guidelines. She said she 
wouldnt have purchased the car if shed known  it hadnt  been  serviced  in accordance  with 
the manufacturers guidelines.
Tesco Bank rejected  the claim so the complaint was referred  to our service. Our investigator  
upheld Mrs Gs complaint. He thought there  had been a breach of contract  on the grounds 
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality. He thought a fair settlement would be for Mrs G to 
receive what shed  paid for the car and warranty, less the amount shed received when she 
scrapped the car, totalling £3,589.
Tesco Bank disagreed,  saying  that it couldnt  reasonably be said the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the point of sale given Mrs G had driven  almost  8,000 miles before 
the timing belt shredded.  It also said the manufacturers guidelines were advisory, not 
obligatory. Mrs G accepted the investigators  recommendation.
As Tesco Bank disagreed the matter  was passed to me to review. I contacted Tesco  Bank to 
explain I thought  the complaint should be upheld,  but for different reasons. I said I thought 
the car had been misrepresented to Mrs G based on it having  a full service  history,  which 
she could have reasonably expected being carried out in line with the manufacturers 
guidelines. I thought she was induced  to purchase  the car.
Ref: DRN00733892I recommended Mrs G should be compensated differently, taking into account  her usage of 
the car before it broke down and the additional expenses shed incurred as a result. 
I recommended she should  receive £3,950.43 plus interest  at a gross  rate of 8% simple, less 
tax if properly deductible, from the date the car broke down on 23 August 2018  to the date of 
settlement. I also thought  Mrs G had experienced trouble and upset as a result  of the car 
being misrepresented  to her and recommended Tesco Bank  pay £250 compensation.
Tesco Bank disagreed.  It reiterated that it didnt  think advertising a car with a full service 
history meant that all of the manufacturers replacement  guidelines  had been  adhered  to. It 
provided evidence  of a chain of garages who provided manufacturer services separately  to a 
full service.
As Tesco Bank didnt  agree, Im now providing my final decision on the matter.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it.
As Mrs G paid for part of the car with her credit  card,  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (Section 75) applies. This says that in certain circumstances, a finance  provider can 
be held equally responsible for a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the supplier of 
the goods or services.
The investigator thought there had been  a breach of contract on the grounds the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. Tesco Bank argued  that it couldnt reasonably be said the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the point of sale given Mrs G had driven  almost  8,000 miles before 
the timing belt shredded.
Having considered all of the evidence  provided,  I accept Tesco Banks points  regarding  the 
quality of the car. But Im instead upholding  this complaint on the basis  that the car was 
misrepresented to Mrs G. I think she was led to believe the car came with a full service  
history, and that she was induced to purchase the car on the basis  of the information 
provided.
I say this because  the car was advertised  as follows:
8 STAMP SERVICE HISTORY @ 18962,  32127, 72739, 95291, 102407,  115858, 126804, 
130938
This represented a full service history, which Mrs G says was emphasised to her by the 
merchant when the car was sold to her. Tesco Bank  has referred to a national chain of 
garages that offers manufacturers  services separately from a full service. But I think  the 
expectation that comes  with a car being advertised  with a full service  history is that any 
service is carried  out as per the manufacturers  requirements.  It isnt in dispute that the 
manufacturer, Ford,  recommends that the timing  belt should be replaced at 125,000  miles or 
10 years.
M told Mrs G and our service that the timing belt hadnt been changed and that it was for this 
reason that it failed.  While  Tesco Bank has said there isnt conclusive evidence  to say it 
hadnt been changed at some point during the lifetime of the car, it also concedes there is 
nothing within the service history to show it had been changed. And overall, Im persuaded 
Ref: DRN00733893by the testimony  of the garage that actually inspected the damaged  car. So, I dont think the 
timing belt had been changed before the car was sold to Mrs G.
When the merchant  carried  out the service at 130,938, I think  it ought to have known  it 
should replace  the timing belt. The timing belt is an essential part of the mechanics of the 
engine and failure to change it at the appropriate  interval, if not before, can lead to 
catastrophic damage to the engine.  And even though  Mrs G didnt have specific  knowledge 
that the timing  belt should have been  changed,  I think she was led to believe the car had 
been serviced correctly,  which would include carrying  out the manufacturers replacement 
recommendations. I think this is further  supported by the fact Mrs G was sold a warranty, a 
condition of which specified the car had to be serviced in line with the manufacturers 
requirements.
Whilst by Mrs Gs own admission she wasnt an expert on cars, she understood she was 
purchasing an older car that had done a significant  amount of mileage. She was purchasing 
the car to use for work, so needed  to be able to rely on it. So, I think  the car being advertised  
with a full service history  influenced her decision to purchase it. On balance, I dont think she 
would have purchased the car or the warranty  if shed  known the most recent service hadnt  
been carried out as per the manufacturers requirements.
For this reason, I think Mrs G should be compensated  for the misrepresentation.
How Tesco Bank should  put things  right
I understand Mrs G had a number of expenses as a result  of the car breaking down. Ive 
seen evidence that she paid £785.31 for car hire, £315 on diagnostics and labour and a tow 
fee of £75, all associated with the timing belt failure. She also incurred costs  to store the car 
after the tax expired as she was personally unable to store it off-road.  Furthermore, I can see 
she spent £288  to repair a faulty  instrument cluster in April 2018  and £784.25  on replacing 
the diesel  particulate  filter in July 2018.
Mrs G received £1,250  for scrapping  the car on 10 December  2018  I think  it was 
reasonable for Mrs G to scrap the car as it wasnt  economical to repair  it. She was also able 
to use the car for around 10 months.  I need  to take all of this into account when working out 
fair compensation.
Mrs G paid £4,595  for the car (and an additional  £244  for the warranty).  As this was paid for 
in full up front, its difficult to put an exact  figure  on the usage she got out it. As I understand 
it, a car with this purchase price bought through finance wouldve likely cost Mrs G around  
£100 per month.  So, I think  thats a fair measure to use. This means  10 months usage 
equates to around £1,000. Adding the usage to the amount Mrs G received for scrapping the 
car leaves  her with a refund  of £2,345 for the car, plus £244 for the warranty, which  equals 
£2,589.
However, I think Mrs G needs to be refunded the costs associated with the timing  belt failing, 
which was £390.  I also think she should be compensated for the extra additional transport 
costs. Mrs G has provided hire car invoices totalling  £785.31 over the three and a half month  
period where  she was without the use of the car. Using the same  logic as above, Mrs G 
wouldve most likely paid the equivalent of £350  for the use of a car over the same period if 
shed purchased a different car that hadnt broken down. This means she spent 
approximately £435.31 on additional  transport that she wouldnt have needed  to pay for if the 
car hadnt been misrepresented  to her. This increases the total compensation to £3,414.31.
Ref: DRN00733894I dont think Tesco Bank needs to compensate Mrs G for storage costs as I cant reasonably 
attribute it to the misrepresentation of the car.
With regard to the additional repairs Mrs G paid for before the car broke down in 
August 2018 (£1,072.25), I think Mrs G should  receive a partial  refund. Ultimately  Mrs G is 
out of pocket for these costs. She spent this money believing  she would get use out of car 
for several  years, but she was unable to use it soon  after the repairs were completed.  
Overall, I think a 50% refund of these  costs would be reasonable, as I dont think  Mrs G 
wouldve purchased  the car if it hadnt been misrepresented  to her. This results in a payment 
of £536.12, increasing the total compensation to £3,950.43.
So, overall, I think it would be fair for Tesco Bank  to pay Mrs G £3,950.43. Interest should  be 
paid at a gross rate of 8% simple, less tax if properly  deductible, from the date the car broke 
down on 23 August 2018 to the date of settlement.
I also think Mrs G has experienced trouble and upset as a result of the car being  
misrepresented to her. I think £250  fairly reflects the inconvenience to her given she relied 
on the car for work and had to make alternative  arrangements that she struggled  to afford at 
the time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance Plc should:
pay Mrs G £3,950.43;
pay interest on this sum at a gross rate of 8% simple, less tax if properly deductible,  
from 23 August 2018 to the date of settlement; and
pay Mrs G £250  for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0073389