K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) sold them a packaged 
bank account  and then soon after changed the costs  and benefits.
background
Mr and Mrs M bought a Nationwide packaged bank account in July 2017 which offered a 
range of benefits including worldwide travel insurance. The fee for the account was £10 per 
month. 
The account  holders could buy an 'age extension for the travel  insurance to extend cover  to 
those up to 75 years old for a fee of £50.
Within 18 months of Mr and Mrs M taking out the account;  Nationwide had increased the 
account fee to £13 per month;  reduced  the age extension  limit of the travel  insurance to 70 
years old and increased the cost of the age extension to £65.
Mr and Mrs M complain  that this was unfair and they say they heard about some of the 
changes in the press before they were notified  about  them.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Nationwide had done  anything wrong. Mr and Mrs M dont  
agree and so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Ive thought about this carefully.  I can understand that Mr and Mrs M were  surprised and 
upset by the changes that Nationwide made  and it took away from them a useful product 
very quickly after theyd  taken it out.
What I have to consider  is whether  Nationwide  did anything wrong and whether it was fair 
and reasonable in its dealings with Mr and Mrs M.
Although I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M Ive decided that Nationwide 
hasnt done anything wrong  and Ill explain why.
Any business is entitled to make a commercial decision and change  the costs and benefits 
of a product  it has on the market provided they give adequate notice  and the customer  can 
leave the product without a charge. Nationwide has provided evidence  that their right to do 
this was covered  in their terms and conditions given  to Mr and Mrs M.
Nationwide wrote to Mr and Mrs M explaining the changes. Ive looked at the letters it sent 
and in my view it acted in a reasonable way explaining to the consumer the commercial 
reasons for the changes and their options going forward.  Mr and Mrs M would clearly have 
preferred the insurance product to continue as it was because it was useful to them.  But they 
were free to seek any alternative packaged  bank  accounts or travel insurance policies that 
were available on the market without any charge for leaving the Nationwide  account.
Ref: DRN03595832I note that Mr and Mrs M read about  the prospective  changes  to the travel insurance  in the 
press before they happened.  Nationwide has said that it was not its intention for that to 
happen and have apologised for it. I think its more likely than not that Nationwide would not 
have wanted such an article to appear in the way it did. So I accept it was a mistake  and I 
think their apology is an appropriate response. 
In conclusion, for the reasons Ive given above,  in my view Nationwide didnt do anything  
wrong when it changed  the cost and benefits  of Mr and Mrs Ms packaged bank account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 August 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0359583