K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Peter Vardy Limited  (Peter  Vardy) mis-sold her a personal loan 
when she wanted  a hire purchase  agreement. 
background
I issued my provisional decision in October 2019.  I explained why I was not planning  to 
uphold Miss Rs complaint. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
Miss R has been represented  by her partner, Mr C, throughout this complaint but for ease Ill 
refer to Miss R in this decision.
Miss R bought a used  car from Peter  Vardy in November 2015.  She signed  a fixed sum loan 
agreement with them and handed in her old car in part exchange. There  was £1,500 of 
negative equity on this vehicle which was added to the total sum to be financed. The total 
borrowing was therefore £10,789.
Miss Rs partner Mr C worked as a service  manager  at the dealership and says he arranged 
all of the paperwork with the sales team there and that he took the paperwork home for 
Miss R to sign.  He says he explained to the sales team at Peter Vardy  that it was critical for 
the agreement  to be a hire purchase agreement as it was his partners plan to voluntarily  
terminate the deal after half of the payments  had been made so she could return  the car and 
set up a new lease  agreement on a bigger vehicle. 
But Miss R was disappointed to find, when she tried to voluntarily terminate the deal, that it 
was a fixed sum loan shed signed  and not a hire purchase agreement. She was upset to 
hear this agreement couldnt be voluntarily  terminated and she therefore complained to 
Peter Vardy. She said the loan had been  mis-sold to her and she wanted Peter Vardy to 
refund the negative  equity on her previous agreement.
Peter Vardy didnt  think the finance  agreement had been mis-sold. They noted that Miss R 
had signed the agreement  and that it had been correctly referred to as a fixed sum loan. 
They explained that the finance company wouldnt allow them  to provide a hire purchase  
agreement when there was negative equity  involved. They did however; suggest that they 
would take the car back and pay Miss R £4,255 for it depending on mileage and condition. 
They believed the current balance on her finance was about £5,000 so they thought this 
would leave only £800 or so to pay  which was less than the negative  equity that was being 
part financed by the agreement. 
But Miss R disagreed and she therefore  referred  her complaint to this service.  Our 
investigator reviewed the evidence. She thought the finance had probably  been mis-sold. 
She noted that the business  couldnt remember whether the paperwork was signed at the 
dealership or at Miss Rs home when only her partner was present: she favoured Miss Rs 
partners testimony that it was the latter. She said the Financial Conduct Authority rules by 
which Peter Vardy were regulated, expected  them to explain the key features of the 
agreement; take steps to ensure the agreement  wasnt unsuitable for the consumers needs 
and allow  the customer to read and consider the terms and conditions  before entering into it. 
She didnt  think the business were able to demonstrate this had been the case as, although 
Mr C was an employee of Peter Vardy,  he was not a salesperson  and would not have been 
able to provide  adequate advice to Miss R.
Ref: DRN07915682However, she went on to consider what the business had offered in resolution and she 
thought theyd done enough to resolve  matters. She noted the offer theyd made to buy the 
car back left only the negative equity that was already there when Miss R bought the car. 
And as shed had fair use of the vehicle since she bought it she thought  this was a fair offer.
But Miss R disagreed and she asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators view as Ive not currently been persuaded that 
this finance agreement was likely to have been mis-sold. I know  that will disappoint Miss R 
so please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss R used a fixed sum loan to buy her car. This is a regulated  consumer credit agreement  
and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the agreement  shouldnt have been 
misrepresented to Miss R. If it was, and if without that misrepresentation I didnt  think  Miss R 
wouldve entered into the arrangement,  Id think Peter Vardy were  responsible  and Id ask 
them to put things right.
Financially regulated businesses are required  to comply with the obligations set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC); section 2.5 says they should:
1)explain  the key features (of the finance agreement) to enable the customer to 
make an informed choice
2)take reasonable steps  to satisfy itself that a product it wishes  to recommend  to a 
customer is not unsuitable for the customers needs and circumstances.
So if Peter Vardy didnt  comply with these obligations it may be that the finance  agreement  
was mis-sold to Miss R. 
I understand that Miss Rs representative,  Mr C, says he brought  the paperwork home for 
Miss R to sign and as he wasnt a salesperson whod received training in the sale of financial 
products, he would be unlikely to be able to provide a clear  explanation of the agreement. 
But Miss R says she cant remember where she signed the paperwork and the salesperson 
at Peter Vardy cant  either.
Its clear,  on the other hand, that the paperwork was signed.  The agreement  is clearly listed 
as a fixed sum loan and the instalments; part exchange value and total borrowed are clearly  
documented. The pre contract credit information that was included  in the paperwork 
Ref: DRN07915683explained the finance arrangement in detail  and there was no right given in the agreement  to 
voluntarily terminate the deal. I think its reasonable to expect a customer to read the 
agreement to gain an understanding  of the contract  theyre entering into. So I find the fact 
that the agreement was signed by Miss R to be more persuasive than the disputed argument 
that it was not signed in the presence  of a trained  salesperson. 
Miss Rs partner was clearly more familiar with the car trade than most and I think  its 
therefore more  likely  that he wouldve been  aware of the need to ensure his partner checked 
the documentation. I think this is further  persuasive evidence that Miss R was more  likely 
than not aware  she was entering into a fixed sum loan with no voluntary termination rights.
So in those  circumstances  I dont think it would be fair to ask Peter Vardy to take any further 
action. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Peter Vardy did not respond  to my provisional decision but Miss R, through her partner,  did. 
She disagreed with my decision explaining that the offer Peter Vardy  had made was only 
made after the car had been  traded in. She asked me to consider:
the finance document had been  dated before the vehicle order date and that was the 
wrong sequence. She said the finance  document had therefore been  signed on a 
Saturday when  no salesperson was in;
that they hadnt asked for the negative equity to be refunded  as Id suggested. Theyd 
asked for the negative  equity from trading in the vehicle in question to their current 
vehicle;
it wasnt reasonable to expect  a lay person to understand the difference between the 
different type of agreements;
Miss R had no contact with a salesperson;
she noted Id suggested the salesperson  had no recollection of where the sales  
documents were  signed and wanted to know who that salesperson was as the 
salesperson on the forms wasnt the one who carried out the sale;
that Id mentioned the agreement didnt  mention  voluntary termination but theyd 
noted other hire purchase paperwork didnt mention  this either but that voluntary 
termination was possible regardless;
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Im still not persuaded its likely this 
agreement was mis-sold.
I thank Miss R for clarifying the position  with regard to the offer made by Peter  Vardy and the 
negative equity but Im afraid that doesnt  change my opinion about whether  the agreement  
was mis-sold. 
I think it would be unusual  for there to be no salesperson on the premises on a Saturday. Id 
assume this was a time when potential buyers were not at work  and could  be expected to 
view cars.  The agreement  was reached four years ago and I think its unlikely Id be able to 
ascertain with any degree of certainty  who was working on that day. I dont think  the fact the 
Ref: DRN07915684agreement was signed on a Saturday, or out of sequence with the vehicle order,  is a reason 
to decide it was mis-sold.
Financial agreements are complex  and I understand that consumers may not always  be in a 
good position to understand them. Thats why the obligations set out in the relevant 
legislation, referred  to above (CONC  2.5), are there. Im persuaded the pre contract credit 
information demonstrates these obligations  have been complied with so that Miss R could 
have a better grasp of the agreement she was entering into.
Ive not seen a copy  of the hire purchase  agreement that Miss R refers  to. They do generally  
allow the consumer  to terminate the agreement once 50% of the payments due have been 
paid. But this isnt the case with a fixed sum loan and wasnt the case  with the agreement 
that was signed by Miss R.
Whilst I understand that Miss R feels very strongly that the agreement  was mis-sold to her 
and that she had no contact with a salesperson  at Peter Vardy, it is also clear that they 
dispute this and that they say the salesperson had no recollection of where  the agreement  
was signed. I dont think its likely this position will change regardless of who the salesperson  
was.
Overall, Ive not been persuaded  that this agreement was mis-sold and my final decision 
remains unchanged.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0791568