K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that The Co-operative  Bank  Plc has unfairly  reported  adverse information 
to the Credit Reference  Agencies.
background
Miss M says she opened a student account with The Co-operative  Bank  (Co-op)  which  
should have meant an interest free overdraft that required repayment  a year after 
graduation. Miss M says she repaid her overdraft early but noticed in 2019  that the account 
was still open.  She says she contacted  Co-op  and it amended the date of closure to 
September 2016 but her credit score then went down. Miss M says as a result  she cant  get 
a mortgage and would like an apology from Co-op and her credit  file amended.
Co-op says Miss M didnt comply with the terms and conditions of the account  and it 
removed the overdraft facility. It says it agreed  a repayment plan with Miss M and accurately 
reported the account position to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). It also says Miss M 
asked that the account closure  date be changed  to 2016 and it complied with that request.
Miss M brought her complaint to us but our investigator didnt  uphold  it. The investigator  
thought Co-op  had written to Miss M about the overdraft being  removed and that it agreed a 
repayment plan with her. The investigator thought Miss M had breached the account  terms 
and conditions and that Co-op  correctly reported  the account position  to the CRAs. The 
investigator didnt  think  the account  closure  date would significantly affect the credit score.
Miss M doesnt accept  that view and says as soon  as Co-op  changed the account closure 
date then her credit  score dropped.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Miss M will be disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at Co-ops records and copies of the many letters it sent Miss M about  her 
account. And Im satisfied  that Miss M breached the terms  and conditions  of the account 
which I think she would have agreed  to when the account was opened. So I dont think  Co-
op made a mistake or acted unfairly  by removing the overdraft facility. Im also satisfied Miss 
M must have been  aware  of what was happening as I can see that she agreed a repayment 
plan with Co-op and by doing so the existing arrangement about the repayment of the 
overdraft no longer applied.
Im satisfied that banks  and building societies have a duty to accurately report the position of 
customers accounts to the CRAs. I find that is what happened here that Co-op  correctly  
reported the arrangement from the end of 2015 to September  2016 to the CRAs.
I appreciate that Co-op should  have  reported  the account as being closed in 2016.  But I can 
see that Miss M asked  both Co-op  and the CRAs to amend her record  and that Co-op 
agreed to do so. I appreciate that may have resulted in Miss Ms credit score  to drop. But I 
dont think that was Co-ops fault or that its responsible  for how a credit score is calculated.  
And for the reasons Ive explained Im satisfied Miss Ms credit  file is now accurate and as 
she wanted it to record the date of the closure of her account in 2016.
Ref: DRN05680372Overall Im satisfied Co-op hasnt acted unfairly or incorrectly reported adverse information  
about Miss M to the CRAs. For that reason I cant ask it to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0568037