K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) alongside a credit  card in 1999.  
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Through his representatives, 
Mr W disagreed  with that view. So the matter has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
After considering all of the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain 
why below. 
I can see Mr W applied  for PPI through the post on the same  application form as his credit  
card. Ive had the benefit of seeing  that application form and I think  that Mr W would have 
been able to complete it in his own time and at his own pace. I can see that in his response 
to our adjudicators view that Mr W said hed probably have had a conversation with 
someone on the phone about the application.  But the form doesnt suggest it was sent out 
following a conversation. And the details dont  seem to have been pre-filled. 
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mr W would have known this policy  was optional 
and he didnt have  to buy it if he didnt want it. From the application form, I can see there 
were two equally prominent boxes to tick  one to select a PPI policy and another to refuse 
it. Mr W has ticked the box to indicate he wanted PPI. I can see that Mr W had refused other 
financial products  that Barclays  offered at that time. So on balance, if he didnt want  PPI, I 
think hed have just ticked the box to say no.
Barclays had to give Mr W enough  information  about the PPI so he could decide for himself 
whether it was a good fit for his needs. That information had to be fair, clear and not 
misleading. I dont think  the form gives clear  details about how much the policy  would have 
cost. Its not clear that Mr W would have  had to pay interest on his PPI premiums if he didnt 
repay his balance in full every month.  
So the question  for me now is whether Mr W would have acted differently if Barclays had 
told him everything it should have done  about  the PPI. To help me decide what hes likely to 
have done, Ive looked at the terms and conditions  of the cover. And Ive also thought about 
what Mr W told us about his personal  circumstances at the time.  
I can see that if hed had to make  a PPI claim, 10% of Mr Ws credit  card balance  would 
have been repaid for up to 12 months  if hed been  unwell  or if he was made  redundant. I can 
see in his initial questionnaire, Mr W told us hed have only been  entitled to statutory sick 
pay. But in the response  to our adjudicators view, Mr W said that he would have had three 
to four months sick pay at that time.  
Ref: DRN04572862Even assuming that Mr W would  have had three to four months full pay, I think this policy  
would have paid out for longer and in addition to the means Mr W had in place for work. He 
told us that his family would have been able to help him pay his card if he ran into financial 
difficulties. I dont doubt it would have been the intention of those  family  members to assist  in 
that situation. But circumstances can change and theres no guarantee that help would have 
been available to Mr W as and when he needed it. 
Mr W appears to have  been in good  health when he bought this policy.  So I dont think  hed 
have been affected by any of the exclusions we usually see about medical conditions.  And I 
havent seen anything unusual about his employment circumstances that would  have 
stopped him from making a successful claim if he needed to.  
With all of this in mind, I dont think more or better information about  the cover  would have 
put Mr W off buying it. Although I appreciate  he doesnt now remember, the evidence  Ive 
seen suggests  that he probably  chose this cover  at the time. And I think  it could have  been  
helpful for him if he couldnt work. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W, but for the reasons Ive set out above,  I havent upheld this 
complaint. Barclays doesnt need to take any action to put things right.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.  
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0457286