K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 1999 and 
2005. Mr and Mrs M say Lloyds bank PLC trading  as Cheltenham and Gloucester PLC 
(C&G) mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
C&G had to make Mr and Mrs M aware  that the PPI policies were optional  and gain their 
consent before adding  them to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs M have told us they felt they had 
to take the PPI to secure the borrowing. I cant be certain what  was said at the time 
Mr and Mrs M applied for the PPI policies but C&G has provided a copy  of the available 
paperwork. For both sales Mr and Mrs M completed an application separate to their 
mortgage application to take the policy, which they also signed to accept the PPI separately 
to agreeing with their mortgage. With this in mind I think C&G  made  it clear  that 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  have  to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why they may not remember this.
C&G recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. Mr and Mrs M have told us that Mrs M would have been entitled  to generous sick pay 
from her employer at the time they took the PPI and that they had some  savings. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to Mrs Ms sick pay, and for longer. The PPI would also have 
allowed Mr and Mrs M to keep  their savings in place to be used towards  any other  essential  
expenses they may have  had. 
Mr and Mrs M have  told us that Mr M was self-employed when they took the policies. But the 
terms and conditions of the policies didnt  make it any more difficult  for self-employed  people 
to make a claim. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, 
Mr and Mrs M werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover,  and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information C&G gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said - including  what theyve  said about 
the PPI not being suitable  for them as there was a 60 day deferment period when making a 
claim. But I still think Mr and Mrs M would have benefitted from the policy. So these  points 
dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about whether C&G needs  to give Mr and Mrs M some of the commission 
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
Ref: DRN05771762types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So C&G  
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0577176