K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Cash  On Go Limited (trading as Peachy) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
Peachy gave Mr B nine payday loans between December 2015 and September 2016.  When  
he first complained to us, theyd all been repaid except for his last loan taken out on 23 
September 2016.
Heres a table showing  the loan details:
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 07/12/2015 07/01/2016 1 £140.00
2 08/01/2016 12/02/2016 1 £190.00
3 15/03/2016 08/04/2016 1 £300.00
4 13/04/2016 06/05/2016 1 £300.00
5 10/05/2016 23/05/2016 1 £480.00
6 23/06/2016 07/07/2016 1 £420.00
7 27/07/2016 26/08/2016 1 £350.00
8 28/08/2016 23/09/2016 1 £560.00
9 23/09/2016 Outstanding £700.00
Mr B complained that he was in a debt spiral and the loans werent  affordable. 
When Peachy looked at what  Mr B said, it partially upheld his complaint. Peachy offered to 
set off the interest paid on loans 5-8 against the amount Mr B owed on loan 9 and to reduce 
his outstanding balance to £160.76. Also, Peachy said it would be willing  to remove these 
loans from his credit file.
Mr B didnt feel this was enough  to put things  right and he brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator thought that Peachy shouldnt have given loans 5 to 9 to Mr B. She gave 
some detailed instructions  about the way she thought Peachy should  settle  the complaint. 
Briefly, she suggested  that Peachy should  refund  all interest, fees and charges on loans 5 to 
9, repay  this amount to Mr B, plus interest, and make some changes  to the loan information 
recorded on Mr Bs credit  file. She said Peachy could use the money  it owed Mr B to pay his 
outstanding debt.
Peachy said it accepted  our adjudicators view and sent us details showing how it would 
work out what to pay Mr B. We passed  this information on to Mr B  but hes told us he 
doesnt want to settle the complaint on this basis and hed like a final decision.
So the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN08032872Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Peachy may even  come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending  itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Peachy  was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the  relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
My understanding of the position  is that Mr B would like us to uphold his complaint about all 
his loans  not just loans  5 to 9. 
So Ive started by thinking about  whether its fair and reasonable also to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint about  loans  1-4. 
Ref: DRN08032873Given what Mr B had told Peachy about  his financial circumstances, the repayment amounts 
he had to make and the fact that he was a new borrower, I dont think  it wouldve been 
proportionate for Peachy to ask Mr B for the amount of information  that would be needed  to 
show the lending  was unsustainable  before agreeing the first four loans. 
Loans 1-3 looked  comfortably  affordable for Mr B  based on what hed said to Peachy 
about his finances. 
I think its fair to say that by loan 4 Peachy shouldve been  starting  to think  about whether it 
should check that what Mr B had said about  his finances was giving  Peachy the whole story. 
Thats because this was third time hed taken out a new loan quite  quickly after paying  off 
the previous loan. This could suggest that he was finding it hard to pay his loans affordably  
and that he needed to keep borrowing in order to have enough money to see him through 
the next month. But, set against  this, Ive taken into account that the repayment amount  on 
loan 4 was still a low proportion of Mr Bs declared income, he wasnt asking for any more  
borrowing than hed taken  out previously, and he hadnt given Peachy any sign that he was 
finding it difficult to pay the loans hed taken out previously. 
So, all in all, I dont  think Peachy acted unfairly  when it provided  loans 1-4 to Mr B. 
To be fair to both parties, and even though theres no dispute  about loans 5-9, Ive looked 
afresh at the complaint to check if I agree  that whats been suggested in relation  these  is fair 
and reasonable.  But as Peachy has agreed  to uphold Mr Bs complaint about  these  loans, 
I propose to deal with these quite briefly. 
Mr B took out loan 5 within just a few days of paying  loan 4  and loan 5 was for a quite a lot 
more money. Especially bearing in mind what Ive said above  about loan 4, I think  by now 
Peachy shouldve been concerned about  Mr Bs borrowing  record  and whether he could 
really afford to pay his loans in a sustainable  way. 
Peachy said in its final response  letter  that it was sorry  to hear that Mr B was experiencing 
financial difficulties already, before it gave him any loans.  Peachy said that although it 
believed the checks  it did were sufficient for most  of Mr Bs loans: by loan 5, Mr B was 
starting to develop a notable  borrowing  history  and we could have done more to establish 
the reasons behind this...
Peachy offered to uphold Mr Bs complaint  about his last five loans and take steps  to put 
things right. 
And when  our adjudicator explained  what she thought Peachy should do, Peachy agreed to 
carry out the steps the adjudicator proposed to settle the complaint.
I appreciate that Mr B has rejected the proposed settlement. But having looked carefully at 
all the available  information, overall,  I think Peachy was right to acknowledge that lending 
loans 5-9 to Mr B was unfair. And the way the adjudicator has suggested resolving the 
complaint is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN08032874putting things right  what Peachy needs to do 
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 5 through  to 8 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 9 and treat any payments 
Mr B made towards this loan as payments towards  the capital
if reworking Mr Bs loan 9 account as Ive directed results in Mr B effectively  having  
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then Peachy should refund 
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Bs loan 9 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Peachy can use the total refund for loans  5 to 8 to offset this. And if there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then I remind Peachy that it should take a sympathetic 
view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Bs credit file in relation to loans  5 
and 6
remove all information about loans 7 to 8 from Mr Bs credit file, and from loan 9 
when it is repaid
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Peachy to take off tax from this interest. Peachy must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. Cash  On Go Limited  
(trading as Peachy)  should pay Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0803287