K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont  pay out for a claim he 
made under his wedding insurance policy.
background
Mr S paid company  M £18,322.20 to cater for his daughters wedding.  Unfortunately  on the 
wedding day M didnt  carry  out the service it had agreed to. Mr S has provided us details of 
the day and there were  a number of severe  issues. Following the wedding he took M to court 
for damages, interest on the damages and court costs.  The court awarded him a total of 
£16,250.
M went  into liquidation,  so Mr S tried to claim for the above amount under his wedding  
insurance. His claim was declined as RSA said his claim  didnt fall within  the policy terms. It 
said it covered the financial  loss of irrecoverable  deposits and additional  costs  incurred to 
arrange an alternative service  which it didnt consider Mr S had suffered. Mr S didnt agree 
so he brought  his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold his complaint. She considered  that his loss wasnt covered  
under the policy  as he was trying to recover the damages he was awarded by the court. 
Mr S didnt agree and set out, amongst other points, that part of his claim was for the deposit 
and that this also formed part of the award  he was made. So he should at the very least 
have this returned. Our investigator didnt change  her outcome so Mr S asked for an 
ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I feel its important to reiterate what is covered by Mr Ss policy.  The relevant  section  of his 
cover reads:
Part 1  Failure of suppliers
We will pay up to the amount shown in your Schedule of cover following the 
bankruptcy, liquidation  or failure to meet contractual obligations of any pre-booked 
wedding service supplier  for the following:
 irrecoverable deposits;
 additional  costs in arranging alternative  equivalent  services to those originally 
booked.
Mr S did put in a claim for the whole award.  Since then, hes more  specifically said that the 
deposit he paid is included in the award the court made and, as M has now gone into 
liquidation, is irrecoverable.
On reading the above term I consider the general  application of it is not for situations such  
as Mr Ss, but instead situations where a supplier is unable to fulfil the agreed contract 
before the wedding  day or fails to attend on the day. So if they were  unable to recover  their 
deposit from the first supplier this would be covered by the policy,  so it could  be used for 
another supplier  if still required. And additional costs incurred whilst  arranging  this alternative  
Ref: DRN05899272service are also covered.  I dont think this section of the policy is in place to cover situations  
like Mr Ss, where the supplier does  attend  but doesnt provide the service  as agreed.
I do however appreciate  Mr Ss point that the term refers to failure to meet contractual  
obligations so I have  considered if his claim should be met. I dont agree that the full amount 
he was awarded  by the court would  be covered  under  this part of his policy. The cost of the 
catering package in its entirety isnt an irrecoverable  deposit or an additional  cost Mr S paid 
out for an alternative  service. On that basis I think the only element of his claim that could 
come under this part of the policy is the deposit he paid to the caterer. So Ive considered 
whether or not hes met the above  term.
Mr S first needs  to show that he is entitled  to receive  his deposit back and then that it is 
irrecoverable. This is particularly important  in this case  considering there wasnt a total 
failure on the part of the supplier. He considers hes done this through  his successful court 
claim.
On reading Mr Ss submission to the court, in the particulars of loss hes set out the total 
amount he paid (including deposit),  which I appreciate is likely to have influenced the award 
made. Hes said that the judgement awarded  clearly comprises  of the deposit paid and that it 
clearly exceeds the deposit paid. But I note the amount awarded by the court (less costs) 
was £15,000 including  interest,  so several  thousand pounds  less than Mr S paid in total for 
the service. And he hasnt  provided  anything to show  how the award sum was derived or 
why he was awarded less than the total cost.
While it does seem the court ruled  that the firm failed to meet  its contractual  obligations,  
I havent seen  anything to show Mr S is entitled  to receive his deposit back  as a result  of 
this. Instead the judgement suggests the court determined Mr S was still required to pay in 
part for the service  received and at an amount greater  than his deposit. On that basis  Im in 
agreement with our investigator  that the amount of the deposit hasnt been proved to be lost 
in this case, but instead has been  considered spent in exchange for the lower level of 
service received. And instructing RSA to pay Mr Ss claim would mean it was paying him 
compensation for what happened, rather than an amount hes actually entitled to under the 
terms.
For completeness, I consider it appropriate  to answer Mr Ss other points. He has said the 
deposit is irrecoverable because M has gone  into liquidation and for no other reason. 
However, as Mr S said himself,  the reason he approached his insurer  was because  he didnt 
consider he would be receiving any money from M. This was due to its other  liabilities, which 
would be considered preferential claims.  So I cant agree that the liquidation itself is the 
reason for his court settlement not being  paid,  especially as the liquidator  confirmed  it had 
accepted his claim. It seems this is in fact due to the amount and nature of the other  
outstanding debts M has in comparison  to its assets.
I also feel its important to point out that M is currently in liquidation, it hasnt yet been  
dissolved. So while I do appreciate Mr Ss point  about the amount of preferential claims vs 
Ms assets, it hasnt yet been formally concluded that he wont be receiving any money.  So 
even if my findings werent  as Ive set out above, I still consider that his costs couldnt  be 
considered irrecoverable at this time.
Ref: DRN05899273my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0589927