K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Cash On Go Limited,  trading as Peachy, lent to him irresponsibly.
Mr B is represented by a third party. 
background
I attach my provisional decision dated 6 August 2019, which  forms part of this final decision 
and should be read with it. In it I explained why I intended to uphold  Mr Bs complaint in part. 
Both parties  had time to provide any further comments they may have  by 20 August 2019  
before I reached a further decision.
Peachy has responded by agreeing to my provisional findings and has sent to us figures 
calculated for the settlement for Loans 3, 4 and 4A. Peachy has said that the refund, plus 
8% reduces  the total outstanding balance Mr B owes it to about £168.  Exact  figures will be 
provided by Peachy. 
Neither Mr B, nor his representative, have replied  to my provisional decision. The deadline 
date for responses has passed. So I think it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude this 
complaint with a final decision. 
 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Peachy has accepted my provisional  decision and calculated  what it owes  Mr B. I see no 
reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision on 6 August  2019.
Peachy is able to set off what it owes to Mr B from what  he owes  it. So that outstanding 
balance of the principal sum (once  the final figure has been determined) needs  to be repaid 
to Peachy.  So a mutually agreeable repayment  plan needs to be arranged  and I remind 
Peachy of the need to treat Mr B in a positive and sympathetic manner. 
Ref: DRN03018092putting things right  what I am planning  to ask Peachy to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on Loans 3, 4 and 4A;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement ;
remove any negative payment information about Loans 3, 4 and 4A from Mr Bs 
credit file.
Peachy is able to offset the money  it owes to Mr B against the money Mr B owes it because  
of the outstanding balances on Loans  4 and 4A. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Peachy to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. Any set-off  Peachy 
carries out must be done after the tax has been  removed from the compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  dated 6 August 2019, I uphold  
Mr Bs complaint in part. 
CASH ON GO LIMITED, trading as Peachy, should  put things right for Mr B in the way 
I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  on or before 28 September 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03018093the main  part of the provisional decision dated 6 August  2019
background
Our adjudicator created  a table of the approved loans  which I have adopted. I have numbered them to 
make identification of them  easier in the decision.
Loan Loan Amount Date approved Status/date 
settled
1 £100.00 13/01/2018
Top-up* 1A £50.00 14/01/2018
Top-up*
1B£50.00 04/02/2018 06/07/2018
2 £240.00 11/07/2018 30/07/2018
3 £150.00 05/08/2018 07/08/2018
4 £100.00 20/08/2018
Top-up
4A£80.00 21/08/2018Outstanding 
balance
*Loans 1A and 1B were  situations where  the overall loan term changed to later dates and effectively 
were refinances of the previous loan. So this has been taken  this into account when considering what 
checks shouldve been carried out. Loan 4A was a top-up in that the original end date of the loan 
remained unchanged. 
Mr B has explained that he spent a significant amount of his earnings gambling  and until recently no 
evidence of that was produced.
Peachy has outlined the types of checks and approach that it took.
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint twice: the first time she thought  that Loans 4 and 4A should 
be upheld. Peachy replied  with many submissions to explain why it disagreed. Our adjudicators 
second opinion  was that the complaint should not be upheld at all. After  this second view,  Mr Bs 
representative sent to us bank statements  for the period  late 2017 to August 2018.  These have not 
been sent in before despite being requested on 9 April 2019. 
These are what  has prompted  an additional review of the complaint by me.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Peachy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr B could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN03018094But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.  But I do not think that this point was reached in Mr 
Bs case.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Peachy was required to establish  whether  Mr B 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments . 
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
I agree with our adjudicator that proportionate checks carried out by Peachy for Loans 1 to 2 appear 
to have been  done and as such I agree  that these are not lending decisions that Id expect Peachy to 
correct. I do not plan to uphold  Mr Bs complaint for Loans 1 to 2. 
As our adjudicator  explained, Loan 3 was effectively the fifth lending decision in fewer  than eight 
months as Mr B had refinanced Loan 1 twice. The application for Loan 2 was for a much higher 
amount than Loan 1. And the application for Loan 3 was made  against that earlier lending 
background. These factors suggest Mr B was in more need of money  not less than when  he first 
approached Peachy. I think these factors warranted further  checks.
And the application for Loan  3 was made against the earlier lending background. A proportionate 
check for Loan 3 at this stage of the lending  relationship  would have been  for a review of the whole of 
Mr Bs financial position, including  verification  of income, outgoings, regular  commitments and other 
short term lending  decisions. 
A proportionate check for Loan 3 at this stage of the lending relationship would have  been a review of 
the whole of Mr Bs financial position, including verification  of income,  outgoings, regular 
commitments and other short term lending  decisions. 
Ref: DRN03018095I do not think  that Peachy did this and so now I have information from Mr B to enable  us to look to see 
what Peachy  would likely have discovered  had it carried out the check I consider to have been  
proportionate for Loan 3 and onwards. It would  most likely have shown that Mr B:
owas taking short  term loans from other lenders
owas persistently overdrawn in his bank account
owas gambling significant amounts and often it was about a £100 a day and as an 
example on 23 July 2018 Mr Bs on-line betting costs were over £200.  
My view is that it would not be unreasonable to consider that many hundreds of pounds  being  spent 
on gambling  each month would be a current financial  situation to be taken into account. And its likely 
that this could  be a fairly strong indication of present financial difficulty. 
In addition, it is likely to mean that Mr B may have had an issue with repaying in a sustainable 
fashion within  the meaning of CONC. Gambling is highly  likely to lead to debt. And with a debt 
situation arising  out of, or contributed to by, gambling,  then a properly carried out affordability 
assessment was likely to lead a responsible lender to conclude that a loan was not affordable for an 
applicant in that situation.
So overall I think  that the approval of Loans 3, 4 and 4A were irresponsible and proportionate checks  
would have shown that Mr B was not in a position to repay these  loans. 
end of extract
Ref: DRN0301809