K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Santander UK Plc (when it was trading as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold her a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a mortgage  in 2004. 
Mrs B applied for the PPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Santander recommended  the policy to Mrs B, so it had to check  it was right for her 
circumstances and needs. But I dont think it was suitable for her. 
Santander says its policy dated May 2002  was the one Mrs B took out. Ive assumed thats 
right. That policy has an exclusion  for pre-existing medical conditions which says:
(ii) You will not receive monthly  benefit for any disability  or unemployment  caused  by or 
resulting from any of the following:
(a)any condition:
(i)which you knew about (or ought reasonably to have known about) at the start 
date; or
(ii)for which you sought or received  advice, treatment  or counselling from a
doctor in the 12 months immediately before the start date.
This exclusion will not apply to pre-existing conditions if you have been free 
from symptoms  and have  not consulted a doctor  or received treatment  for a 
24 month period  prior to your claim
Mrs B has told us from the outset of her complaint that she was treated for a medical 
condition a few months  before she arranged her mortgage. Santander considers she should 
provide further  information and evidence of the condition and the treatment  she received. 
But Mrs Bs testimony has been consistent since the start of her complaint. And given the 
amount of time thats passed since the policy was sold,  I dont think its fair to expect her to 
Ref: DRN08693782provide the evidence Santander is seeking.  I think its reasonable to accept what Mrs B has 
told me about her health issue.
Mrs B clearly  knew about her medical condition when she bought  the policy.  So she wouldnt 
have been covered if shed had to take time off work  in connection with it.
The policy wording suggests the exclusion wouldnt apply once Mrs B had been free from 
symptoms and not consulted a doctor or received treatment  for twenty four months before 
any claim. 
But Ive kept in mind  that the treatment  Mrs B has told us about was of a serious nature, and 
had taken place  only a few months  before she bought the policy. At the time of the sale, I 
think its likely that in her particular circumstances Mrs B wouldve still had the recent 
treatment well in mind. Indeed, shes told us shed  only returned to work relatively recently,  
after about eight  weeks off to recuperate from surgery. Its possible that a full recovery  may 
not have been confirmed  at that stage. At the very least, I think  Mrs B wouldve felt uncertain  
about whether  her condition, or some  issue related to it, might recur. 
Mrs B would have to be free from symptoms and not have treatment or even consult a 
doctor for at least a further nineteen  months  before the exclusion would no longer apply.
Given the nature of the treatment shed  had, I think that period was too long for the policy to 
be suitable for her. And Ive concluded  that Santanders recommendation to take the policy  
was unreasonable.
Ive not been clearly  shown that Santander discussed Mrs Bs health with her at all at the 
time of sale.  Santander thinks  its adviser wouldve done so, but hasnt given me anything  
showing it did this or if so what was said, including the questions asked or what  answers 
Mrs B gave, or that she was given any advice about the exclusion and how it might  affect  
her. 
Santander should have checked Mrs Bs medical  history to make  sure that the PPI was 
suitable for her. As Ive already said, had it done  so I think it wouldve realised that the PPI 
wasnt right for her. Or at the very least,  Santander shouldve  told Mrs B clearly that she 
might not be covered if she needed time off work for further treatment  during  the nineteen 
months after the policy was sold.
I dont think Mrs B would  have bought the policy if Santander had made  it clear  it wasnt 
suitable, or hadnt recommended  it to her.
fair compensation
Santander should put Mrs B in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mrs B the amount  she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Santander can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her. 
Ref: DRN08693783Santander can also take off any Plevin commission it has already repaid to Mrs B from 
the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Santander  UK Plc to pay compensation to 
Mrs B in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0869378