K820x#14complaint
S, a limited  company, complains that Santander  UK Plc failed to process an international 
payment.
background
Mr W is the sole director of a limited company which I will call S. In March  2019 he made an 
international payment of £20,000 from Ss Santander account, which he did using online 
banking. Shortly afterwards, the payment was returned. In the meantime, the exchange rate 
had changed,  and so he only received £19,369.21 back, a loss of £630.79 (which  included a 
fee charged by the other bank). Mr W phoned  Santander to find out why this had happened, 
but the person he spoke to didnt  know. Later  that day, Santander sent him a letter 
explaining that he had entered the wrong name for the beneficiary  of the payment, and so 
the beneficiarys bank  had returned the money.
Mr W brought this complaint to our Service, on behalf of S, asking for a refund of the 
£630.79 and of the £25 fee Santander had charged.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He agreed that the return  of the payment had 
not been Santanders fault, as it had only happened  because the other  bank had been 
unable to identify  the intended recipient  of the funds.
Mr W said that Santanders  online system for making international payments is flawed, and 
that our Service should not let them to get away with it. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The reason  the payment was returned is because instead of entering the name of the person 
the money was for, Mr W entered  Westpac bank account instead, Westpac being the name 
of the other bank.  That meant that Westpac  could not confirm the identity of the intended 
payee, so it returned the money  to Santander.
In his response to the investigators  opinion,  Mr W said that Santanders website was 
ambiguous, and had misled  him into entering  the wrong data. He said:
Santander indicate that the beneficiary customer account is my reference so 
I indicated my "Westpac bank account" but this clearly needs  to be the specific 
account holders (sic) name as shown  on the beneficiary account.
Its clear that Mr W misunderstood what he was supposed to type in the relevant  box, but 
I dont think that is Santanders fault.  Ive seen a video that Santander has posted on 
YouTube which shows how to make an international payment on its website.1 55 seconds 
into the video,  it shows that the website asks for the payees name,  which I dont think is 
ambiguous. Further  down, there is another box for the name  of the payees  bank.
1 See https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FwZawHsogEg&list=PL_kIQnvtNjJjcxL3hr2iknGlAR4u9t-
ZW&index=10&t=0s which was uploaded in 2015.
Ref: DRN00493402So while I can see that what  Mr W entered as the payees name was used as the reference  
for the payment in his bank statement, I cant agree  that Santander made  it seem  that it was 
asking him to enter in the payees name box whatever he wanted  to use as his own 
reference. Its clear that he was supposed to enter the name  of the person he wanted to pay.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W, on behalf of 
S, to accept or reject  my decision before 28 February 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0049340