K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr S bought the policy in 2003,  at the same time as taking out a credit  card in a branch.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
While I know this will disappoint Mr S, I dont think this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Ss credit  card application  had a section for additional features  optional extras that he 
didnt have to take. It gave an overview of what PPI was for and what  it cost, and had two 
tick boxes to choose from: one to buy PPI and one to turn it down. Both boxes were equally 
prominent. The box to buy PPI was chosen, while the one to turn it down was left blank, and 
Mr S signed  the application to confirm his choices. So I think that Nationwide made Mr S 
aware he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it  though I can 
understand why he mightve forgotten he had it as the years  went  on.
Nationwide didnt give Mr S a personalised recommendation to buy PPI, so they didnt have 
to check if it was right for him. They did have to give Mr S enough  information  to decide if the 
PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information Nationwide  gave Mr S about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr S chose  to take out the policy,  which indicates he 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations  even 
when he went self-employed, he was still fully covered.
From what  he told us, Mr S only had very limited employee benefits if he was off sick or lost 
his job, and he wouldnt have had any such benefits  when he went self-employed.  He said 
he had some savings, though  it doesnt  sound like they wouldve lasted that long when they 
wouldve been needed to cover all his living costs.  I also understand Mr Ss family  may have 
been more than willing to help. But circumstances change,  and there was always the chance 
theyd be unable to help when needed. Further,  the PPI meant Mr S wouldnt have to ask his 
family to pay his credit card, nor use up his savings. So the policy could have been useful for 
Mr S if something went wrong. Then  if his circumstances  changed or he changed  his mind, 
Mr S could cancel the PPI at any time without a penalty. So overall, I dont think better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN05604082Lastly, Mr S mentioned  that there was a period where he might have been able to claim,  but 
didnt. It was some years  after the sale, and buying insurance is not often memorable, so its 
unsurprising if he forgot he had PPI by then. Mr S may still be able to make  a back-dated 
claim on the insurance. If hed like to do that, he should get back in touch with Nationwide. 
Then if he has any problems making the back-dated claim, he may be able to bring that to 
our service  as a separate  complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint about the sale of this 
particular PPI policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0560408