K820x#14complaint
Mr B (through his IFA) complains that Scottish  Equitable plc (trading as Aegon) failed to 
reinvest the balance  of his pension fund once hed taken  tax-free  cash. Mr B missed out on 
investment growth  while the fund balance remained in cash.
background
Mr B wanted  to take tax-free cash from his pension  fund, and arranged to transfer  between  
funds within  Aegon.  During the process, Mr Bs IFA was told by Aegon that it would be better  
to convert the whole fund to cash,  and reinvest  the balance once Mr B had taken the tax-free  
money.
Mr Bs IFA confirmed  these instructions in an email to Aegon. Mr B received  the tax-free 
cash in the summer  of 2017, but the balance of the fund remained in cash until early 2018. 
Mr B considers he should be compensated for the loss of investment growth while  the 
balance of the fund remained in cash.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He didnt consider 
Aegon was responsible for the balance of the fund remaining in cash after the tax-free lump 
sum had been  paid.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. His IFA said Aegon had converted  the 
whole fund to cash through a manual override of the transfer  process. So it considered  it 
reasonable for Aegon  to accept some  responsibility  for reinvesting the balance of the fund 
once the tax-free  lump  sum had been paid. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B gave instructions  for his original  pension fund to be transferred to a SIPP with Aegon. 
After hed given  his instructions, his IFA sent an email  to Aegon that said:
Please accept this e mail to retain all the transferred funds in cash  as our client  wishes  to 
take an immediate  PCLS . 
Once the tax free cash amount has been paid, we will invest the balance in the previously  
chosen funds.
Mr Bs IFA says Aegon  overrode the transfer  process to retain the whole fund in cash. As 
such, it considers  Aegon shouldve realised that the fund balance was to be invested in line 
with Mr Bs original instructions once the lump  sum had been paid.
But Mr Bs original instructions had changed. So I dont think  it was unreasonable  for Aegon 
to conclude that the email above meant the IFA would arrange the re-investment after the 
tax-free cash had been paid. 
Ref: DRN09982192Im not persuaded that Aegon shouldve automatically made the re-investment, based on the 
email above.
As I dont find Aegon to be at fault, there are no reasonable grounds  on which I can uphold  
Mr Bs complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0998219