K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Santander UK Plc has been unable  to help him find a payment 
allegedly sent to his bank  account by a third party.
Mr P is represented in bringing this complaint by his wife, Mrs P.
background
Mr and Mrs P are trying to locate  the proceeds of flexible mortgage  individual  savings 
accounts (ISAs) taken  out with a third party. The ISA provider says that Mr and Mrs P 
surrendered them in 2004 and that the proceeds  were paid to Mr Ps by way of two bank 
transfers. But Mr and Mrs P say they never  received those funds (an amount in excess of 
£8,000).
The bank account in question was originally  held with Bradford & Bingley, which ultimately 
ended up being  taken over by Santander.  Mr and Mrs P approached Santander last year for 
help in finding the payments. 
Santander investigated the matter  but couldnt  find any record  of the two payments or 
explain what  happened to the funds. Unable to locate the funds through  the provider or 
Santander, Mr and Mrs P raised complaints with both businesses.  
Santander said it hadnt done anything  wrong  it was only required to keep  records for six 
years, so it only had basic information (by way of copy statements)  for the relevant period.
Mr and Mrs P referred their concerns to us. Initially, Santander said the matter had been 
raised too late and so it wasnt  one that we could consider. But I issued a decision  saying  
that we could  it wasnt  Santanders  actions back in 2004  that were  at issue, rather it was 
whether Santander  was doing all it could to help trace  the payments more  recently.  
One of our investigators  then looked into things  but didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong. She noted that all it had been able to provide was a transaction history for 
the period in question.  But she didnt think that was unreasonable  considering the amount 
of time that had passed, that the account was set up by a different bank on an older system 
and given data protection  rules that applied. 
Mrs P didnt accept our investigators view. She still thought Santander could provide more 
information, so she asked for the complaint to be reviewed and it was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I think its worth  reiterating  that I am considering whether Santander (or Bradford & 
Bingley) did anything wrong in how it handled any payments at the time they were 
purportedly made. All I am looking at is whether Santander has acted fairly in light of Mr and 
Mrs Ps more  recent requests for assistance  in locating the missing funds.
Ref: DRN06930542In that respect,  I note that Santander has provided Mr P with a list of historic transactions for 
the account. Mr and Mrs P requested the surrender in late 2004 and evidence suggests that 
the payments  were  then made in late December 2004 and early January 2005. The 
transaction history  Santander has provided  covers  that period, and shows  that payments of 
the amounts in question werent  received into Mr Ps account.
Of course the transaction  history doesnt  show what did happen to these payments if they 
didnt end up in Mr Ps account  as intended. And thats what  Mr and Mrs P need help with. 
Records from the ISA provider show that the payments were directed to an account 
operated by the bank itself (rather than one in Mr Ps name) along with a reference to use 
that would  then allow the funds to be redirected to Mr Ps account. Mr and Mrs P requested  
that Santander trace those payments, but it said it couldnt  do that. It said that would be 
down to the sending bank; it had the necessary references. In any event, a trace wouldnt be 
possible now given the amount of time thats  passed. 
Weve also asked Santander a number of questions to try to shed more light on what  might 
have happened   and what mightve  gone wrong.  But given the time thats passed it says it 
has nothing further  that it can share on the accounts or transactions  in question. And it 
doesnt now have  any records  as to how the holding account that seems to have been used 
wouldve operated  back then. Again, given that all of these enquiries relate to events that 
took place so long ago I dont find that unreasonable. 
Taking all of this into account   and while I appreciate that this leaves Mr and Mrs P in a very 
frustrating position   I dont think theres  anything more that Santander could reasonably  be 
expected to do. So Im not directing it to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0693054