K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that The Co-operative  Bank  Plc mis-sold  them  a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from October 2018,  which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was thinking of upholding Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. The Co-op  responded  with some comments that I will 
address below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Co-op says that Mr and Mrs Bs savings werent  in an account with them  at the point of 
sale and that the savings  only started to accrue in the off-set account after the mortgage was 
taken out. The Co-op says it therefore  didnt take these into account. But in assessing 
whether the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs B, The Co-op should have taken appropriate  steps 
to find out whether they had a need for it  including asking if they had any other means,  
such as savings, of covering  their mortgage repayments, regardless of if the savings were 
held elsewhere.
The Co-op has sent in a Mortgage Checklist document from the time of the sale which 
provides more details  about the couples circumstances,  and it has made  a number of points 
in relation to the contents of this form.
It says that Mr and Mrs B had two children, one of whom would be starting  university within 
the next 12 months and that cost would be funded from savings. The couple were  also 
planning to send £10,000 on home improvements. So The Co-op says that the couples 
savings were already  committed to other  uses.
Ive thought carefully about this, and it might have made a difference  to my view if Mr and 
Mrs B had a more modest level of savings. But they had ample savings at the point of sale,  
and these were continuing to grow.  For example, the Mortgage  Checklist also records  that 
the couple were  receiving  large dividends from their company each year.  It also records that 
they had no large  expenditure plans  beyond putting  their children through university. So 
even with their stated future plans that would  have used up some of their savings, I still think 
they had more than enough  money  set aside so that they had no real need for PPI. It follows  
that I uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Ref: DRN02190472The Co-operative Bank Plc should put things right by paying  compensation as detailed in my 
provisional decision below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02190473copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that The Co-operative Bank  Plc mis-sold  them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B were sold the PPI at the same time as arranging their mortgage in a branch of the Co-
op Bank in 2004. The policy provided Mr and Mrs B with accident and sickness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagree  with the adjudicators opinion  and 
so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs B say that the PPI was just included  with their mortgage repayments and therefore it was 
added without their knowledge or consent.  But looking  at the paperwork from the time of the sale,  its 
clear that there  was a discussion about  PPI and that Mr and Mrs B agreed to buy it and signed for it, 
including by filling in a separate PPI application  form. So it seems to me that they decided to take out 
the PPI, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing  so.
Co-op Bank advised  Mr and Mrs B to buy the policy. So I need to consider whether  Co-op  Bank 
advised the couple with reasonable care and skill  in particular, whether  the policy  was appropriate 
or suitable for Mr and Mrs B, given their needs and circumstances.  And from what  Ive seen of Mr 
and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, I dont think it was suitable for them.
Mr and Mrs B had a substantial amount of savings. It was an offset mortgage and the amount  in the 
offset savings account equalled the amount of their mortgage. They  also had an additional large  
amount of savings held elsewhere.  This cash wasnt earmarked for anything else,  so it was available 
cash. To illustrate this, Mr and Mrs B say they paid off the mortgage in 2008 as they could no longer 
see the point of having  it.
I cant  see that the adviser has taken these savings into account when recommending  the policy. The 
adviser has clearly  had a discussion with the couple about the PPI and run through  a list of questions  
with them. But these questions focus very heavily  on what  other existing  cover or benefits Mr and Mrs 
M might  have.  They  have  not been asked anything about the level of savings they had.
If Mr and Mrs B had been unable to work due to accident or sickness they could  have used  their 
substantial savings to cover their mortgage  repayments, or pay the mortgage off altogether.  So I am 
not persuaded  that they had a need for the policy. Because  of this, Co-op Bank should  either not have 
recommended the policy, or explained the ways in which  its recommendation would not meet  Mr and 
Mrs Bs needs, so that they could make an informed  choice about buying  it. However it appears that 
Co-op Bank did in fact recommend the policy without any reservations.
I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs B would  have gone ahead  with the policy if they had been properly  
informed. This is because they would have realised that their need for the cover was reduced.  
Therefore they wouldnt have considered it of value in their particular circumstances.  It follows that I 
currently uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN02190474putting things  right
Co-op Bank should put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd  be in now if they hadnt taken  out PPI. So 
Co-op Bank should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Co-op Bank can take off what they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.   
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Co-op Bank to take off tax from this interest.  Co-op Bank must  
give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.  The Co-operative Bank Plc should  
put things right by paying compensation as detailed above.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0219047