K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of C, a limited company that Santander UK Plc delayed  two 
international payments to his suppliers. He incurred  late payment charges as a result and 
wants Santander to refund  him these losses.
C is represented by its director  Mr H. 
Background
Mr H had a business  account with Santander.
Mr H requested that Santander  make two international  payments to Cs supplier which  I will 
refer to as T. Ive set out details  of the payments Mr H wanted to make below.
Date of payment Amount Date payment credited
5 October 2018 £44,690.50 23 October 2018
20 December 2018 £15,840.00 11 January 2019
Mr H expected the payments to arrive within five working days. As the payments were 
delayed Mr H complained  to Santander about this on the 16 October and on the 
27 December.
As a result of the delays  Mr H has said he lost out on the exchange rate and had to pay 
penalties for late payments. His terms of business with his supplier  T were  also changed as 
a result of the late payments.
Santander said it had done nothing wrong  and explained that the payments had been 
delayed because they needed  to carry out extra checks  to comply with their legal and 
regulatory obligations.
Mr H was unhappy with Santanders response so referred the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  Having reviewed the evidence she 
thought that the delays to the payments hadnt  been  unnecessary  or unfair. She thought  
Santander were complying with its legal obligations and shouldnt be held liable for the 
financial loss Mr H had experienced.
Mr H was unhappy with the investigators view. He said that the payments were genuine 
payments and he provided  documents from the UK tax authorities  to us to evidence this. So, 
he didnt think Santander should have needed  to do extra checks.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  having done so I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN02567932Ill start by setting out some context for the review  of Mr Hs payments. Anti-money 
laundering regulations and UK legislation place extensive obligations on regulated  financial 
businesses to have  suitable systems in place for reviewing transactions.  Financial 
institutions must establish the purpose  and intended  nature of a business as well as the 
origin of funds, and there may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and 
existing relationships. Santander  have  said that Mr Hs transfers were reviewed as part of 
their legal and regulatory  obligations.
I have looked  at the terms and conditions of the business account and I am satisfied that 
Santander were able to review the transfers as they did. Mr H agreed  to these terms at the 
time he opened the account. 
I have also considered if Santander caused any unnecessary delays to the transfers 
following the review  and having  looked  at the evidence provided, Im satisfied that they acted 
promptly.
I understand that Mr H has been inconvenienced and his suppliers and his company have 
suffered financial losses  as a result  of the delay  in the payments. But Ive already said that 
Santander has procedures it must  follow to comply  with its legal and regulatory  obligations.  
And Im satisfied that is what it was doing  when  it delayed  the transfers. So, I dont  think  that 
Santander did anything  wrong.
I have seen that Mr H has provided us with documents to show that the payments were  
genuine. I have  looked at the documents and I accept that these are official  documents  that 
show the payments  were  genuine payments to suppliers. It isnt clear  to me from the 
evidence whether this documentation was provided to Santander by Mr H. But even if 
Santander was made  aware of these documents, they were entitled  to carry out compliance 
checks on the payments.  Santander were within its rights to delay the payments if it felt they 
needed further clarification. And had to make certain  checks  to comply  with its regulatory 
obligations. As Ive said the bank has legal and regulatory obligations that they must  fulfil, 
and Im satisfied that in reviewing the payments that is what Santander  were  doing. Even 
though I accept that Mr H had genuine  contractual obligations to fulfil. 
In summary  I am satisfied Santander  were  following  their internal processes and complying 
with their regulatory obligations. I appreciate that Mr H feels the banks actions caused him 
real inconvenience.  And he wants Santander to compensate him for the exchange rate 
losses and the late payment  fee, but it wouldnt be appropriate  to make an award  for 
compensation for that, since  I dont believe Santander acted inappropriately in taking the 
actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0256793