K822xcomplaint
Mr O is unhappy at how American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) has 
dealt with a payment plan on his account.
background 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 31 October 2019, a copy of which is 
attached below and forms part of this decision.
In summary,  when Amex  set up the payment plan in October  2018,  they told Mr O he would 
need to make payments by standing order. They also told him that he would need  to quote 
his membership number  as the standing order reference, and that if he missed any 
payments then the payment plan would be cancelled. But Amex didnt tell Mr O that, if he 
didnt quote the full membership number, then the payments wouldnt be applied  to his 
account and would be classed as missed.
Mr O didnt quote the membership number, and Amex  couldnt match  the payments to his 
account. So they reported missing  payments to the credit reference agencies, cancelled  the 
payment plan and transferred Mr Os account to a third-party debt collection agency. Mr O 
contacted Amex about this, the missing  payments  were credited to his account, and all 
future payments have  been made without any problems.
I felt that, because Amex  hadnt told Mr O the consequences of not quoting  the full 
membership number on the standing order, Amex should amend his credit file to show these  
payments as being made. But because Amex  use the third-party debt collection agency to 
manage the repayment plan Mr O is now on  it doesnt expire after a fixed  period and all 
interest is suspended   I also felt it wasnt reasonable  to ask Amex  to take back  the account.
Both Mr O and Amex have been  given the opportunity to comment on my provisional 
decision.
Amex accepted my provisional decision but said that Mr Os credit file was amended  in June 
2019 to show  the missing  payments  having  been made. They  would like the final decision 
to reflect  this is the case.
Mr O has commented that Amex are negatively  impacting his credit score  it shows  that he 
is hugely overspending on his credit card,  and he feels  this wouldnt be the case  if the 
November and December  2018 payments had been recorded correctly  and the payment  
plan hadnt been cancelled. He also says that I would  be content for the collection agency  to 
handle the debt if in doing so it doesnt  worsen my credit score.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive responded to the points raised by Mr 
O below.
Ref: DRN08095572Mr O has provided  an extract  of his credit score, dated November 2019, which shows he has 
two credit cards. It also shows  he owes more  than the combined  credit limit of both cards.  Mr 
O had previously sent us a copy of his full credit  report, dated 8 May 2019. This shows  that 
Mr O had exceeded his Amex credit limit on at least seven occasions  before he started the 
payment plan in October 2018.  
When Mr O started  the payment plan, Amex had the right to reduce or remove  the credit limit 
from his account   because Mr O was already over the credit limit and couldnt maintain the 
contractual payments, I think this is reasonable. And Ive seen that the credit limit was 
reduced to £0. So I dont  think  that the account now being administered by the third-party 
debt collection agency has had any effect on this.
If Mr O had stayed  on the original payment plan, hed have paid a reduced  payment for 12-
months and Amex wouldve charged a reduced interest rate. Now hes with the third-party 
debt collection agency hes not being  charged any interest and the payment plan has no 
fixed end date (although the actual payment being made will be reviewed annually). This 
should mean that Mr Os debt is repaid  sooner that it wouldve been if the account remained 
with Amex.
Because of this, and because Amex cant administer the type of payment plan Mr O is 
currently on, I dont  think that Amex  should take back the account from the third-party debt 
collection agency. So, while Mr Os comments have been considered,  they dont change my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Os complaint. As American Express  Services  
Europe Limited (AESEL) have now amended Mr Os credit  file to show  that he made the 
agreed payments  in November and December 2018, they dont need  to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0809557