K820x#14complaint
Miss J is unhappy that the premium for her motor insurance arranged by Stackhouse Poland 
Ltd (SPL) was considerably more expensive than similar policies  on the market.
background
Miss J took out her insurance through SPL in 2008.  At the time she advised  that there were 
three possible drivers of the car, including herself.  She says she was advised  that a policy  
that covered her as the named driver and any driver over 25 would be cheaper  than having  
named drivers. She continued to insure through SPL up until the 2017 renewal when she 
advised SPL that she had had a much  cheaper quote through  another  broking service.  SPL 
obtained other quotes from insurers  on its panel and advised Miss J that it could get her 
cheaper insurance with two named  drivers only. Alternatively, and it recommended  this, she 
could renew with the same insurer with any driver over 30 being  fully covered.
Miss J opted  to move her insurance,  and sought  to reclaim the premiums she felt she would 
have saved had she been advised  properly. SPL explained that it had never  said the policies 
it sold were the cheapest  on the market, or that it sought any policies outside  its panel. It 
said that the premium  Miss J was paying also covered  its private client  claims handling  
service, and its commission.  Miss J was also unhappy that when she asked for details of her 
no claims discount she was told that a fault claim had been  logged against her when she 
had only logged an enquiry after a note was put on her car, which came to nothing.  SPL put 
this to the insurer who removed the record.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator pointed out that the insurance  product Miss J had 
now bought wasnt  the same  as the one offered  to her by SPL. He further said that the 
product from SPL met her demands  and needs,  particularly  to cover any driver. He was also 
satisfied that SPLs  commission  was within a normal range.  He also pointed  out, with a new 
policy, an introductory discount may be offered. Miss J said she had only ever wanted a 
standard motor  policy and shed only continued  with the any driver policy  because  it was 
cheaper. She further said that if introductory  discounts are offered, then SPL should have 
obtained that for her when she first took out the policy.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss J first took out her policy, it was for a high end luxury car. She chose to use SPL, 
a broker offering an exclusive private client service. I dont think she could have expected  to 
buy a standard motor  policy. Miss J says that when she took out the policy in 2008,  she 
was offered the any driver option  as being  cheaper  than named  drivers, but that she didnt 
need that option at the time. However  I cant  say from the notes at the time whether that was 
the deciding factor. The handwritten note from the initial call in 2008 says Ideal World Any 
Driver over 25. I accept that that could be interpreted in different ways,  and clearly  premium 
would have been a factor. 
Each year Miss J was sent a renewal  notice which set out her demands and needs, which 
included the fact the she wanted cover for any driver over 25. The premium went  up for a 
Ref: DRN04805482couple of years initially but then reduced  every  year until 2016 when it went up slightly  and 
then came down considerably after the 2017  renewal offer.
Its true to say that SPL didnt test the market every year but for the policy it was offering, it 
did say the premium was reasonable.  This included its commission,  which we have 
assessed from the details given us to be reasonable. It also included  a private client claims  
handling service.  The policy  also offered  a guaranteed  replacement cover for the car in the 
event of a total loss. 
As Miss J is aware the insurance  market offers a wide range  of policies and prices. She has 
been able to get considerably cheaper cover, but not on exactly  the same terms as with the 
policy offered by SPL. This may well reflect  what she needs now,  but I cant see that SPL 
didnt act in what  it perceived to be her interests  according to her demands and needs.  This 
included but wasnt  confined to, the price (which as I say went down). 
Miss J contends that she queried the premium. I can only see two notes where  any 
discussion took place  as to whether she was happy  to renew the policy.  This aws firstly  in  
2015 when it was noted that she was happy  to continue with the same insurer  as it also 
provided her home insurance. Secondly, in 2017  when she decided not to renew through 
SPL. SPL wasnt obliged to tell her that other  cheaper policies may be available  until the 
2017 renewal.
Miss J points  out that if insurers  offer introductory  discounts, SPL should  have sourced an 
insurer that provided one when she took out the policy. I dont know  if an introductory  
discount was available  for her car and her circumstances in 2008.  I would just repeat that 
SPL offers high end products for private clients. Miss J was free to reject the renewal each  
year if she thought the premium was too high or she no longer needed the any driver cover.
 
Finally Miss J queries  the benefit of the claims handling service she received as a part of the 
cost of her policy. This is because when she asked for details of her no claims bonus she 
found that the insurer had recorded  that a claim was her fault. She had discussed  this at the 
time with SPL when  a note had been  put on her car. SPL advised her to notify the insurer 
and take photos, but did tell her that it might come  down to her word against that of the other 
driver. Nothing  came of it but because it happened in 2015 the insurer still had a note of it. 
When SPL approached it, it removed  the note. I cant see that that this has had any bearing 
on the claims handling service that SPL offered. It advised her on the possible claim and got 
the insurer to remove  the note from its record.  It didnt affect the premium.
Overall I dont think that Miss J was treated unfairly  in the sale of a policy  to her or in the 
subsequent renewals. I think  she was given the opportunity each year to object if she 
thought she was paying too much or if the policy didnt meet her needs. I dont think that just 
because she has been able to get a new much cheaper policy now means that the policy 
sold by SPL was unsuitable for her.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
Ref: DRN04805483ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0480548