K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Zurich Insurance plc unfairly rejected his claim for repair  costs under  a 
boat insurance policy.
background
Shortly after the policy started damage was found on Mr Ms boat because of water  leaking 
into the engine  area.  He instructed an engineering firm to investigate  the cause  of the 
damage and then carry out repairs.  Zurich agreed to pay for the investigation  of the cause,  
but rejected the main costs claimed for repairs and replacement of corroded  parts.  
A summary  of Zurichs position is that Mr M instructed  his own engineer and all repairs were  
done before  he made a claim on the policy and notified the insurer, which Zurich says 
prejudiced its position.  However, Zurich referred  the technical aspects to a qualified  expert  in 
the relevant field.  It was accepted that the source  of the leak wasnt  readily  identifiable but 
regular servicing  and maintenance would have identified the consequential  corrosion. And 
by nature of the corrosion itself, its apparent that the damage was subject to gradual 
deterioration and likely  to have started before the policy started.
Zurich explained  its reasons to Mr M and noted his disclosure of relevant technical 
experience and that hed carried out all servicing  and maintenance for the past two years or 
so. Zurich asked  for full evidence of the service / maintenance history,  or an independent 
surveyors assessment and it would consider its claim  decision again.  
Our investigator wasnt persuaded that Zurich had handled the claim unfairly by relying on 
the evidence from its expert the damage was identifiable through  regular 
servicing/maintenance. He thought it was fair that Zurich had paid the investigation costs 
incurred and offered  to consider the claim decision again if further evidence as described 
was forthcoming.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whats apparent is that the policy commenced in late November 2018 and around three 
weeks later Mr Ms boat was being inspected  by an engineering company for water  ingress. 
The policy explains  that Mr M should  contact a designated agent for a claim form and 
instructions as soon  as reasonably practicable  after the occurrence. But Mr M didnt make 
contact until after repairs had been  carried out. The repairer had also disposed of the parts. 
Zurich referred the information it had to its expert. The expert  said;
In this case, the exact cause of the ingress,  i.e. the wear and leak at the steering sleeve on 
the transom assembly, would not have been readily  identifiable but the resultant corrosion 
on the housing  and fittings  would  have been  quite  evident.
The stern drive assembly should be inspected annually, especially at connections with 
bellows normally replaced every five years  or so.  Regular checks  should be made in the 
machinery space for possible leakage and deterioration and this should  have flagged up any 
corrosion or deterioration on the transom housing due to leakage  at the steering tube.  
Ref: DRN06457162Unfortunately, with the insured having proceeded with repairs  and as all damaged parts had 
been disposed  of, we were unable to inspect these.
There would  have been staining and corrosion below  the steering arm but it is fair to say 
that, to categorically  identify the cause of the leak, removal of the engine and transom 
assembly would  be required.  The corroded exhaust  manifold  and risers are a completely 
separate issue from the leak at the steering connection.
There was also communication between  Mr M and Zurichs expert.  The expert explained  to 
Mr M the investigations made with the repairer  and the dry berthing  manager. The extent of 
corrosion apparently seen by the repairer was described and the expert told Mr M that it 
wasnt related to any submersion on or around  the November launch date and had been an 
ongoing issue. And in conclusion the damage related to the age and maintenance of the 
boat rather than a specific incident.  
Mr M has provided an extremely brief version  of the maintenance  and service  history.  There 
are no contemporaneous records or detail behind, for example, his statement that the boat 
was serviced in May 2018. What Mr M has stated clearly is that there was no evidence of 
any visible signs of damage until December 2018, and so his claim should  be paid.
The policy excludes  damage caused by gradual  deterioration, unless the gradual 
deterioration could  not have been  identified by routine  inspection  and/or prevented by 
servicing, maintenance. And the policy defines gradual deterioration as the continuous 
degradation of the boat caused  by, wear and tear, rust, rot, oxidation, corrosion, electrolytic 
or galvanic action, wasting or weathering. Zurichs  position is that the damage  is likely to 
have been discoverable by routine checks, maintenance and servicing.
Where the information  is incomplete or inconclusive,  I make my determination based on the 
balance of probabilities having  considered  all the information made available.  Corrosion  by 
its nature  is a process that happens  over time, or in other words  gradually. Zurich accepts 
that the cause  of the water ingress  wasnt easily identifiable. But I accept Zurichs experts 
opinion that routine checks through servicing and maintenance would have identified the 
corrosion damage  and as such, highlighted that there  was an issue.  Given  the extent of the 
corrosion described,  I accept that it seems more likely than not that the corrosion was 
evident and easily identifiable for some time and before the policy  started, which was just 
three weeks before the damage  was inspected by Mr Ms appointed engineer. So, Im not 
persuaded that Zurich has acted unfairly by paying the investigation  costs  only but not the 
corrosion related damage.
Zurich has told us that if Mr M could provide the maintenance  records for the boat or an 
independent assessment from a surveyor, where  the findings were  different, it could 
consider the claim  further. To date Zurich says it hasnt received anything  that alters  its 
decision. In the absence  of detailed maintenance records, its a matter  for Mr M to decide if 
he wants to instruct a surveyor to assess his situation and provide such  a report to Zurich for 
consideration. The investigator has also explained  this to Mr M. 
Ref: DRN06457163my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Zurich Insurance plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0645716