K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc didnt do enough to help him when he was the 
victim of a scam causing him to lose £18,000. 
HSBC say theyre not liable for the loss as Mr M had authorised the payment and they had 
no reason to suspect  there was an issue. But they accepted they could  have provided  better  
service when communicating  about their recovery  attempts and offered £50 compensation  
for the impact of this. 
background
On 1 March 2021 I issued  a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, Im intending to uphold this complaint  for the following reasons:
1.It is common ground that Mr M authorised the scam payment of £18,000 on 26 June 
2018. At the time he believed  he was sending the money to his solicitor to assist  in 
the purchase of a property. Hed received an email requesting that amount and 
providing details  of the account  to which it should be sent. But unfortunately, the 
email was from a scammer  using  a similar email  address which  included  their 
account details.  Mr M then used his online  banking to send  the payment.
2.I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr M was the victim  of a 
scam. He used his security credentials  to make the payment. So, although he didnt 
intend the money to go to the scammer, under the Payment  Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs), and the terms and conditions  of his account, he is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance.  
3.However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry  practice at the time, I 
consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that their customers  were at risk of fraud (among other  things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks  are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, to have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  
from the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
4.I am aware that HSBC considers too high a standard  has been applied  to what is 
expected of them in terms of identifying  payments that might  indicate a consumer is 
at risk of financial harm; and they have referred to the Quincecare duty  in support of 
Ref: DRN00479072their argument. I am mindful that the courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly  
and the circumstances of this complaint  are different to that case. Our fair and 
reasonable remit also enables us to take account  of regulatory and industry 
standards beyond  the narrow legal duties considered in that and other  court cases. 
5.In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare  applies to this case, however the broad 
legal position  that a bank is expected  to process payments that a customer  
authorises is not absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules  and 
guidance, relevant  codes  of practice and good industry practice  at the time) is an 
example of that.
6.Ive looked  at Mr Ms bank statements going  back to July 2017 to establish what the 
usual activity on that account looks like. There are card payments, ATM withdrawals 
and direct debits. The account appears to be well run and typically  had a healthy 
credit balance.  I note that there  was a large  payment for £15,000 made  via telephone 
banking in April 2018, but aside from that most payments from the account were 
typically for a few hundred pounds or less. In this context, I think the payment 
instruction for the £18,000 payment in June 2018  stands out as clearly  unusual. It is 
a significant amount  of money, it represents a sudden increase in spending from the 
account and it withdrew nearly  all of the available balance  at the time. 
7.Ultimately,  its a matter for HSBC and/or the regulator as to how they choose to 
configure their fraud detection systems given the balance  between  the duty of care 
towards clients and the duty to execute instructions without  undue  delay.  But on the 
facts and evidence  before me, I am satisfied that HSBC  could and should reasonably 
have made additional  checks with Mr M before  they let this payment through. There 
were enough triggers  of unusual or uncharacteristic activity such that, in my view, a 
prudent and professional banker could and should have realised that something 
didnt look quite  right  and that further  enquiries  would  be appropriate before going 
further. It was reasonably  foreseeable  that failing to do so, might result in this type of 
financial harm.  I therefore conclude that HSBC  didnt do enough  to protect  Mr M 
from the risk of loss.
8.So, Ive gone  on to consider whether HSBCs  intervention at this point would  have 
made a difference  its essential for any failing to have caused the loss. Here,  if 
HSBC had contacted Mr M, Id have expected them to have asked probing questions  
with the aim of uncovering  a potential scam and not necessarily to have taken Mr Ms 
answers at face value  (because banks know that victims are often coached into 
giving cover stories by scammers). I think Mr M would have truthfully  answered  any 
questions he was asked. I think its likely  he would have explained he was making 
the payment to his solicitor towards  the purchase  of a property. Email interception 
scams (such as this one) were and sadly still are common. Id expect an international 
bank like HSBC to have  been well aware of this type of scam. So, I think  its 
reasonable to expect  them to have asked Mr M how he received the account details 
for the payment, to make  him aware  of such scams,  and to explain that sometimes  
emails can be hacked.  Had this happened I think its most likely  Mr M would have 
contacted his solicitor  by other means such as telephone. Its highly likely the scam 
would have failed  and Mr M wouldnt have lost £18,000.
9.Ive also thought about if Mr M hadnt  answered  the contact from HSBC  by being 
unable to take the call. But I dont think HSBC reasonably could  have taken this as 
Ref: DRN00479073reassurance that Mr M wasnt at risk of financial harm. And in those circumstances, 
Id have expected them to hold the payment until they had been able to speak to him. 
10.In light of my conclusion above, its not necessary in this case  to consider whether  
HSBC also exercised enough care and urgency when trying to recover the stolen 
funds from the beneficiary bank.  
11.I have  also considered whether  Mr M should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However it is clear that when making the payment he 
believed it to be genuine. Prior  to receiving the email he was expecting  contact from 
his solicitor for him to pay the deposit. The email itself isnt an obvious fake  it 
wouldnt have easily been apparent  that it wasnt from the genuine solicitor. So, I 
dont think Mr Ms actions  in sending the payment  amount  to contributory negligence. 
HSBC are the finance professionals  and Mr M was an average consumer with no 
knowledge of such scams. 
12.In the circumstances,  Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC to 
reimburse Mr M for the loss he suffered without any reduction. Ive also thought  
about whether  interest should  be added  to this amount. Mr M has told us that he was 
fortunately able to borrow money from friends  and family  to go ahead with his 
property purchase in the aftermath of the discovery of the scam. As such, Mr M 
himself hasnt been disadvantaged by being without  money  he otherwise would have 
had. And Im not able to make  awards  to anyone  other than the complainant (Mr M), 
such as his relatives who I accept may have lost interest  on the money  Mr M 
borrowed from them. 
13.I also think that a compensation  award of £300  (total) should be made for the distress  
and inconvenience  Mr M has suffered. In reaching that conclusion, Im mindful  that 
much of the distress  was caused  by the criminal act of the scammers who tricked him 
into sending the payment. But ultimately HSBC could have avoided  much of this 
along with the inconvenience  of then having to approach others to borrow  money  to 
still be able to complete the property purchase. This amount includes the failing in 
communication HSBC  have  already  accepted took place and for which they have 
offered £50 compensation.
Mr M responded to say he accepted  my provisional  decision. 
HSBC responded  to say they had nothing further to add but would like a final decision to be 
issued. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr M accepted my provisional  decision and HSBC  didnt have  any further evidence or 
comments for my consideration, I see no reason to deviate from the outcome previously 
explained. 
Ref: DRN00479074my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. HSBC  UK 
Bank Plc must:
Pay £18,000 (less any amount already recovered and returned) to Mr M within 28 
days of receiving notification of his acceptance  of my decision;
Pay Mr M £300 compensation for distress  and inconvenience (if Mr M has already 
received the £50 referred to above, only a further £250  needs to be paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2021.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0047907