K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains that Forester Life Limited didnt  handle his change  of direct  debit  details 
properly. As a result, two of his monthly investments were missed  which  hed like 
compensation for. 
background 
Mr F invests into a child trust fund with Forester  he contributes  around £50 each month  by 
direct debit. Last summer, Mr F changed  his bank account, so he needed to change his 
direct debit details to continue investing with Forester. Mr F says he contacted Forester  
about this twice using their online  enquiry form. He says he also emailed Forester  when  he 
didnt get a reply. 
When Mr F received a letter from Forester in September about  a cancelled direct  debit, he 
didnt think much of it and presumed  it meant  his change of details had been made. But 
when a second letter was received, Mr F feared something was wrong.  He got in touch with 
Forester and was told they hadnt  received his online enquiries or email.  
Mr F was unhappy about this and made  a complaint.  Forester asked him to sign a form to 
change the direct debits.  Although this was accepted electronically,  Forester  then failed to 
get things set up in time for the October  payment. So that was missed  too.  
Forester looked into Mr Fs concerns. They couldnt  trace his web chat or email with his new 
direct debit details, so didnt agree theyd done  anything wrong before the September 
payment was missed.  They explained how Mr F could instead make  a one off payment to 
make up for what was missed.  
But they did acknowledge that although  theyd  allowed Mr F to provide the new direct  debit 
details electronically,  they made a mistake by not setting the new direct debit up in time for 
the October  payment. So they offered £50 compensation.  
Mr F wasnt happy with this. He felt Forester should  make up the missed payments and 
compensate him. So he asked for our help. One of our investigators looked into what  had 
happened. But she felt Foresters offer was fair. So Mr F asked for his case to be reviewed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I know  Mr F will be 
disappointed, I agree  with what  our investigator said,  for broadly  the same  reasons. 
Its clear that Mr F was trying to change his direct  debit  details  with Foresters last August. 
Ive seen a copy  of the email he says was sent following two attempts at using the online 
enquiry form. What resulted from this was that two months payments were missed.  
Foresters dont take responsibility for the first  saying Mr F ought to have used the right 
form. But they do take responsibility for the second, as they made a mistake in not acting  on 
the instructions  given.  
The breakdown in communication and mistake  made meant Mr Fs sons investment was 
£100 short  of where it ought to have been.  Compensation for the inconvenience aside, a 
possible financial loss like this is fairly straightforward to put right  as Forester offered, Mr F 
Ref: DRN00167192could make a one off payment of £100  which would bring the investment up to the level of 
contributions it should have  been. And Mr F did do this in March.
Nevertheless, our investigator looked into this to make sure that the delayed  addition of the 
£100 wouldnt disadvantage Mr Fs son  instead, she found the opposite.  The underlying  
unit prices had fallen  this spring,  compared to those  of last autumn. So Mr Fs £100 in March 
bought more units for the same money,  so his sons fund is now better off than it would 
have been the direct debits not been missed. For this reason, I cannot see Mr F, or his son, 
are any worse off financially as a result  of what happened.
I know Mr F was concerned he felt he may have missed interest  which, in years  to come 
would have a greater compounded effect. But the units in his sons fund arent income  
producing  the eventual  return will be based on the value of the underlying units  held.  So 
the delayed investment has no ongoing implication to the performance of the trust. 
In saying that, I do recognise  Mr F has had some trouble and inconvenience with what  
happened. So Ive considered what would be a fair sum to reflect that. 
Looking at the first months missed payment, Mr F says he contacted  Foresters twice using 
their online form and once  by email  on 16 August.  He thought  this to be sufficient.  Ive 
seen a thread of internal  emails illustrating Foresters staffs  search  for his communication.  
Searches were done on Mr Fs personal details but nothing was found.  Mr F says his 
internet provider confirmed his email was sent.  But this wasnt  found by Forester  either, 
despite them  checking with other departments. 
Having seen a copy of the email,  I dont doubt it was sent.  But what  flows  from that isnt 
necessarily that I think Mr F did enough. Foresters have explained that to change  a direct 
debit, they ask their clients to complete  a form thats  signed.  I dont expect  Mr F to have 
necessarily known this at the time.  But because he didnt get an acknowledgement to his 
email and instead a couple of weeks on got a letter saying the payment had been missed, I 
think he then ought to have realised things  hadnt  gone to plan. 
Instead, Mr F took no further  action and it wasnt until another  letter  was received that he got 
in touch with Forester. For this reason, while I recognise Forester may have mislaid Mr Fs 
email on 16 August, I dont think compensation is due here.  
When Mr F got in touch with Forester again they agreed to receive his new form by email   
something they say they wouldnt usually do but did so with an understanding  of what had 
already happened. But despite confirming his new direct  debit  would be set up in time to 
meet Octobers payment,  this was missed. I recognise the frustration and disappointment 
that Mr F felt here  I can see hed been working  on this for some time and he was put to 
more trouble than he expected. But I think the offer of £50 compensation is enough to 
recognise this. 
As a final comment,  Mr F had mentioned concern  around his monthly payment increasing 
from £50 to £51.76 without  notification. But as Forester said,  they wrote to him  at the 
address we have  for him now  in September 2017  to explain that the increase was in order  
to keep pace with inflation. The increased  payment began from November 2017. And Mr F 
was given the option to contact Forester if he didnt want the increase to go ahead.  Forester 
shared a screenshot with us showing the date the letter was printed, so Im satisfied it was 
sent and that Forester  hasnt made an error here.  
Ref: DRN00167193I know Mr F is bound  to be disappointed with my decision, but I think  Forester  has made a 
reasonable settlement offer in an attempt to deal fairly with his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Forester Life Limited should settle this complaint as they have 
already proposed to do, by paying  Mr F £50 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0016719