K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that the £225  Mortgage  Account Fee Santander UK plc applied when she 
redeemed her mortgage is unfair. In particular, Miss G says she feels the fee is 
disproportionate and unnecessary.
In order to resolve this matter Miss G wants Santander to provide her with a breakdown to 
show how it calculated the fee, and to refund any overpayment.
background
Miss G held a mortgage with Santander.  The mortgage offer she accepted set out that a 
£225 Mortgage Account fee was payable. It explained that the fee was for the provision and 
general administration of your mortgage.
When Miss G redeemed  her mortgage  in 2018 the fee was applied, in line with the terms of 
the mortgage.
Miss G complained to Santander as she felt the fee was too high. She asked Santander to 
justify how it had calculated the fee.
Santander said the fee was clearly set out in the mortgage offer Miss G had accepted. It said 
that if Miss G had been unhappy with the level of the fee she was free not to have gone  
ahead with the mortgage offer.
Miss G wasnt satisfied  with Santanders  response  and brought her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Miss Gs complaint  should  be upheld.  He said that he 
felt Santander  was entitled to apply the fee and he didnt think it was unreasonable.  He also 
said he was satisfied that the fee had been  clearly set in writing, at the outset. 
Miss G did not accept our adjudicators view. She said her complaint was about  Santanders  
refusal to provide a breakdown of the fee. Miss G reiterated that she wanted  Santander  to 
provide her with information on how the fee had been calculated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Miss Gs complaint  should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Miss G says she want Santander to justify  how you calculated the fee of £225.00 to my 
satisfaction.
I am sympathetic to Miss Gs position.  But I dont think  Santander  is acting unreasonably by 
refusing to provide a breakdown of the costs it has incurred in administering  Miss Gs 
mortgage.
The Account  Fee payable was calculated before Miss G took out her mortgage. This gave 
her certainty about what the general administration  costs  would  be for her mortgage.  
Ref: DRN07446492The mortgage offer Miss G accepted  clearly  set out that the £225 Account Fee was for:
the provision and general administration of your mortgage. This fee can be paid on 
completion or deferred until the end of your mortgage. If you defer the payment, this fee will 
not increase.
The Account  Fee was set to reflect the expected cost of providing general administration 
services for Santanders mortgage account holders, on average  and over time. Therefore, by 
its nature  the Account  Fee is unlikely to match precisely the actual costs of administering a 
particular loan. This type of arrangement is accepted by the industry regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA).
I appreciate that Miss G wants Santander  to provide a breakdown to show the cost of 
administering her mortgage. But as I have explained  above, I dont think  it needs  to do so. I 
have not seen anything that suggests the fee charged was not a genuine pre-estimate of the 
general administration costs Santander was likely  to incur.
If Miss G remains unhappy with the level of the Account Fee Santander applied,  she may 
wish to raise this with the FCA,  the industry regulator.
 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2019.
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0744649