K821x#15complaint
Mr G and Ms T complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited  (Admiral) has unfairly
refused a claim they made and also voided  their insurance.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in late 2018.  In that I said I was minded to 
uphold the complaint. In summary, I didnt  think the questions Admiral  asked when  Mr G was 
buying insurance were  clear enough to prompt him to declare notifications  of incidents  that 
didnt result in a formal  claim. I did think the question  was clear enough to prompt  Mr G to 
declare claims that resulted in payments.  A copy of that decision is attached and forms part 
of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G and Ms T responded to the provisional  decision. They  said that they had received  
eventually  a full refund of the premiums theyd paid Admiral. They say theyre not overly 
concerned with getting back the cost of repairs after the fire, and will accept a payment of 
£401.24 (the difference theyve paid in premiums from May 2017  to November 2018) and the 
compensation I recommended of £300. Thats £701.24  in total.
Of more importance  to them is that Admiral  remove all records of the cancellation from 
industry databases and provides a letter on headed  paper to confirm they havent had a 
policy cancelled.
Admiral also responded.  It says two main things.
Firstly, it believes  that the comparison website asks for information in a way that makes it 
clear that all incidents  should  be declared whether these result in a financial outlay or not. 
But the information its provided to support that is the same as the information I referred to in 
my provisional decision  and Ive already  said I didnt think  the questions  were clear  enough  
to prompt Mr G and Ms T to declare four incidents  rather  than two. So this hasnt affected my 
decision.
Admiral has sent us information to show that, if it had known about the two claims that 
should have been declared,  it would have insured Mr G and Ms T, albeit for a higher 
premium. Instead of charging Mr G and Ms T £290.90 it would have charged £531.36. Its 
provided details  of how this was calculated.
Having considered all the information,  I think Admiral  needs to put things right for Mr G and 
Ms T. To do that it should put them in the position theyd have been in if it hadnt  made  
mistakes.
industry databases
Most importantly for Mr G and Ms T, that means Admiral should remove any records about 
their insurance being cancelled.  And I think its fair it also provides the letter Mr G and Ms T 
asked for.
Ref: DRN02938012financial loss
If Admiral had known about  the two claims it would have charged Mr G and Ms T more than 
it did. So I dont think it fair to ask it to refund  to Mr G and Ms T the difference  between  what  
they did pay and what theyre now paying   because they underpaid in the first instance. 
The way to put this right is for Admiral  to pay Mr G and Ms T the difference  between  what  it 
would have charged if Mr G had declared  the two claims and what  hes had to pay now hes 
declaring a cancellation.
Mr G has told us the cost of his new insurance   which  appears  to be about £40 a year more  
with the cancellation than Admiral would have charged if the two claims had been declared.  
I dont know whether Mr G and Ms T would have paid the amount Admiral said it would have 
charged or whether theyd have shopped around  for a cheaper price. But given Mr G was 
using a price comparison  site initially I think its fair to conclude he would  have looked  for the 
best price he could get.
Its possible Mr G could have bought insurance  more cheaply then he did once he had to 
declare a cancellation. But this was in 2017 so its difficult to check prices retrospectively  
across a range of providers. I think an appropriate way of calculating the difference  is if Mr G 
and Ms T get their current insurer to tell them what their policy  would have cost if he hadnt 
had to declare  the cancellation. Hes already told his new insurer about all four incidents, 
which seems appropriate  as that insurer  worded its questions about previous 
claims/incidents in a way that prompted  him to do this. 
Admiral should then refund Mr G and Ms T the difference between this amount and what 
hes had to pay, from the date he got insurance  elsewhere to the date of the refund. 
outstanding claim
Admiral says that Mr G and Ms T only paid just over half of the premium  they should  have 
paid. So it says that if its to pay out on the outstanding claim then it will only pay 
proportionately  that is just over half the cost to put things  right.
My view is that Mr G and Ms T only needed to disclose the 2012 and 2013  claims  when 
applying for the policy. Admiral has shown that disclosing  these two claims would have  
resulted in Mr G and Ms T paying a higher  premium.  Therefore when considering  their claim 
for fire damage,  if any settlement is due, Admiral  is able to settle this proportionately, taking 
into account the higher premium that would have resulted from disclosing the 2012  and 2013  
claims.
In order to reinstate  the policy and have the fire claim  considered, Mr G and Ms T will need 
to repay  to Admiral the premium that was repaid to them after the policy was avoided.  If they 
choose not to do that Admiral need not consider the claim, but Ill leave that decision to Mr G 
and Ms T.
compensation
I havent seen  anything from either party  that persuades me to change the amount of 
compensation I suggested.  So that will remain at £300.
Ref: DRN02938013my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Reinstate the policy and consider the claim,  based on the terms/premium that would 
have applied  had the 2012 and 2013  claims been  disclosed upon policy  application. In 
order to do this, Mr G and Ms T will need to repay to Admiral  the premium  that was 
refunded to them when the policy was avoided.
Pay Mr G and Ms T any additional premium they paid under their replacement  home  
insurance policy as a result of disclosing the policy  voidance. To this additional premium  
amount should  be added 8% simple interest  from the date each premium was paid to the 
date of settlement.
Remove any references to the policy cancellation and avoidance from shared industry  
databases.
Provide Mr G and Ms T with a letter  (on headed  paper) explaining that the cancellation  of 
the policy and avoidance was because  of errors  made by Admiral.  
Pay Mr G and Ms T £300 for the distress  and inconvenience theyve suffered
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02938014Copy of provisional  decision  issued  2018
complaint
Mr G and Ms T complain  that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral)  has unfairly
refused a claim they made and also voided  their insurance.
background
Mr G has been the main  correspondent throughout this complaint, so Ill refer mainly to him
in this decision.
Mr G bought property insurance online  through a comparison website. When he later tried to
make a claim after a fire at his and Ms Ts home, Admiral  checked the information  he
provided when he bought the policy against industry records. Admiral then said Mr G hadnt
told it about  four previous  claims hed made. It said if it had known  that when he applied for
the insurance  it wouldnt  have insured him. So it refused  his claim and voided  the policy  
that is treated him as never being insured   and returned his premiums.
Mr G complained, saying he did declare two claims.  He said the other two were  notifications
of damage that never  became  proper  claims.
Our investigator initially thought  Admirals actions werent fair as he thought  Mr G had acted
reasonably when providing  information.  Subsequently Admiral  sent some additional
information in which indicated Mr G hadnt recorded the claims when buying the policy, but
only when making the claim. Admiral says its own risk assessment rules would have meant it
would never  have offered Mr G and Ms T cover if it had known their full circumstances when
Mr G bought the policy.
Mr G and Ms T dont  agree  so Ive been asked to look at the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is missing,
inconsistent or contradictory  as some  of it is here  Ive considered what I think most  likely
happened given the evidence available and the wider  circumstances.
There are two key issues in this complaint. Those are whether Mr G provided the information
he says he did at the point  where he was buying  the policy  and if he didnt, was the
information something that Admiral can show  us would  have affected its decision to provide
him with cover.
It might help if I explain  how insurers generally approach such topics. Theres a difference
drawn between a customer deliberately  withholding  information when applying for insurance,
and just not taking enough  care when providing  answers  to questions.  In both cases, an
insurer must show it asked clear and relevant  questions at the time and  in this case  that
Mr G didnt provide all the information he should  have.
If an insurer  can also show us it wouldnt have provided insurance if it had had the
information, then it would be appropriate for it to void the policy. If the omission  was because
Mr G hadnt  taken enough  care  but hadnt  deliberately given the wrong  information   then
Admiral would  also refund  any premiums  paid. Thats what Admiral says its done here.
did Mr G provide the relevant information?
Ref: DRN02938015Mr G bought this policy through  a comparison website. Admiral  somewhat  late in the day 
has been able to give us a copy of the screens from the comparison website Mr G used,
and, importantly, the information captured at the time. The question on the website  is about
whether any home  insurance claims  have been made, or any losses incurred  in the previous
five years.
Admiral sent us Mr Gs claims  history, which it got from a centralised database shared
amongst insurers.  I can see that there were four notifications and/or claims  during the
relevant 5 year period,  and Admiral says all of these should have been declared.
There were  two claims  in 2012 and 2013   where  payments were  made  to Mr G.
I think  the question is clear enough to prompt Mr G to declare these two claims. Thats
because Id expect him to recall fairly  recent claims which were serious  enough  to result in a
payment.
There are two other entries on the history. One was for some damage to a fence caused  by
a drunk driver. Mr G told his previous insurer  about  this. The claims  history record is marked
as a notification. The damage  was then paid for by the drivers father, and nothing further
happened between Mr G and the insurer. I dont think Mr G would  realise he should  declare
this, as it never became  a claim in the sense that the insurer doesnt seem to have
considered whether it would meet a claim  or not. And Mr G didnt incur  a loss.
The other  was about a stolen phone. Mr G says he reported this but then realised that it was
an old phone and worth only a nominal amount  probably well below  the excess an insurer
might have deducted from any amount  it might pay. So he didnt  progress this any further. I
think thats a reasonable  thing to do. Again the claims  history record is marked as a
notification, and was closed after a couple of days. I dont think  Mr G was careless  when he
didnt tell Admiral about this  the potential claim doesnt  seem  to have been considered and
the loss was only a few pounds.
Overall I dont think Mr G was careless when he didnt disclose these  two events.
In summary, I think Mr G should have declared two claims  but didnt do anything wrong
when he didnt declare two notifications that were never progressed.
Theres no mention of any previous claims  on the internal records Admiral created when the
policy was set up. So it seems that either Mr G didnt provide the relevant  information  when
he applied for insurance, or the information  didnt  reach Admiral. I accept Mr G says he did
provide it. But even  if he did input the information, I cant conclude Admiral got it if its records
say otherwise, especially  as most of these processes are automated.  And the comparison
website has confirmed there were no problems  with the site at the time.
I can see Mr G was told at one point that the two claims  were declared when he bought  the
policy. Weve now been told this was meant to reflect  that he mentioned them  when asked
during a phone conversation  about the new claim, rather than when he bought the policy.
That confusion hasnt been very helpful,  but overall  Im currently persuaded  Admiral wasnt
able to take this information into account when  it decided  to offer Mr G insurance.
was it material  information?
Accepting that Admiral  didnt  get the two sets of claims  information when Mr G and Ms T
bought the policy, I then need to decide whether the omission was something that would
have led Admiral  to decline the application for insurance.
Admiral says there were  four claims  incidents that Mr G should have declared. It says  and
there are some notes  on its records  that say it wouldnt accept an application  from
someone with so many  previous claims.
Ref: DRN02938016Ive already said I dont currently think Mr G needed to declare four incidents, but rather  two.
So I cant say if the comment about four claims is also appropriate to situations where  there
are two.
I think  a fair way to check  whether two claims  would  have  affected Admirals decision to
provide cover is to look at its underwriting  policies. Thats its own set of checks it carries out
to decide if a particular application for insurance is one it wants to meet. It will reflect
Admirals appetite  for risk in various areas.
Admiral says its underwriting policies say Mr G had too many previous claims for it to
insure him. But it hasnt told us what too many is. So I dont now if two undisclosed claims
(even if thats by mistake) are too many  or if its four. Admiral hasnt provided a copy  of its
policies, despite  several requests. Im afraid that the various file notes and explanations
about what Admiral would have done if it had received the relevant information dont replace
this, as I havent  been  able to see whether these actually  fit with its underwriting policies.
Without that I cant conclude Admiral has followed its own policies and treated Mr G and
Miss T fairly.
So Im currently  intending  to uphold this complaint.
putting things right
Mr G says he and Ms T will have to declare  that theyve had a policy  voided for many years
and that will make buying insurance of all types more expensive. Mr G also says he hasnt
received all of his premiums  back  despite  being promised  this, and the whole issue has
caused him and Ms T stress and inconvenience.
Im currently  intending to ask Admiral to put Mr G and Ms T in the position theyd have  been
in if Admiral hadnt made mistakes. That would normally be for it to re-instate the insurance
(if Mr G and Ms T pay or have already paid the relevant premium), remove any records of
the cancellation and consider Mr G and Ms Ts recent claim in line with any terms and
conditions in that policy.
Mr G and Ms T may well have bought cover elsewhere  that overlaps with the reinstated
policy. If thats the case, then Admiral  should reimburse  Mr G and Ms T for any additional
costs they might have incurred  through being double insured.
If Mr G and Ms T can also show me theyve paid extra for other insurance  (outside the
double insurance period) because  of the cancellation record,  then Im intending to ask
Admiral to refund  the difference.
For these  refunds (and any claim payment if its a cash settlement), Ill also ask Admiral to
add interest  at our standard rate of 8% simple per year, from the date Mr G and Ms T made
the claim and/or  paid the extra amounts  to the date of refund. Thats  because Mr G and Ms
T have been deprived of the use of this money.
Admiral should also remove any reference to the cancellation from industry records, and
provide Mr G and Ms T with a letter on headed paper explaining  the entry  was Admirals
mistake if they ask for this.
Finally I think  Admiral should pay Mr G and Ms T some compensation  for the inconvenience
theyve had, and I think £300 is fair given this had been ongoing  for some considerable  time.
Ref: DRN02938017my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint and order Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar) Limited to pay
compensation as outlined above.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0293801