K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains about the service she received from Tesco Personal Finance PLC when 
there was fraudulent activity on her credit  card account.
background
In late 2018 fraudsters targeted a number  of accounts held by Mrs C including her credit 
card with Tesco Personal Finance PLC.
Mrs C complained when  she rang to discuss things with Tesco she was treated rudely and 
unsympathetically given the fraud  shed  been  subject to and a recent family bereavement 
shed suffered.
Mrs C was also unhappy Tesco couldnt send her a replacement card after hers was 
cancelled and she wouldve had to go through an application for a new Tesco credit card if 
shed chosen  to replace it. 
Tesco upheld Mrs Cs complaint and offered her £300 compensation. Although Mrs C 
accepted this initially, on reflection she didnt think it was enough and brought  her complaint 
to this service as she was entitled  to. Our investigator considered £500 would be fair 
compensation in the circumstances of Mrs Cs complaint but Tesco  didnt agree. So Ive 
considered everything  afresh to come  to a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C spoke to Tesco  a number of times during  late 2018 about the fraudulent activity on 
her account.  She told Tesco several times she was very worried  and mentioned  she was 
having suicidal  thoughts.  Shes told us she was very upset by the rude and unsympathetic 
treatment she received from Tesco during a call she had with one of its advisers.  She felt 
she wasnt listened to. And she says she never  had a clear explanation as to why Tesco 
couldnt replace  her card. 
Understandably Mrs C was very worried about what had happened to her and shed 
changed her contact details to try and protect  herself from being  targeted by fraudsters in the 
future. This made it more  difficult  for Tesco to make  sure it was speaking to Mrs C rather 
than the fraudsters when it asked her security questions. And Tesco had some concerns on 
some of the calls about verifying Mrs Cs identity. For example, on one occasion Mrs C had 
rung from an anonymous  number which meant  it had to ask more questions to check  it was 
her who was calling.  This led to Mrs C becoming upset. 
Tesco is obliged to comply with relevant guidelines concerning fraudulent  activity  and data 
protection. So I think it was right for Tesco to make  sure it was speaking  to Mrs C before 
discussing things with her on the phone. Tesco says it wasnt  always  possible  to explain to 
Mrs C why it was asking  the questions it did as to do so would  breach  guidelines.  
But Tescos  agreed Mrs C received  some  poor service and its investigation into her 
complaint confirmed thered been  many  errors  in the way it treated Mrs C. For example, 
Tesco acknowledged  Mrs C was treated abruptly and rudely on at least  one of the calls, the 
Ref: DRN00663932fact shed mentioned  she was having suicidal thoughts hadnt been acknowledged, there 
was no record of her receiving a call back that had been promised and she had to spend  
longer on the phone with Tesco trying to resolve the issues than Tesco wouldve liked.  
Tescos also acknowledged it couldve explained to Mrs C more clearly  why it couldnt issue  
her with a replacement card. It says this was due to a systems error which led to Mrs Cs 
account being closed once a fraud  security  block had been applied.  And the only way Tesco 
can resolve this is for Mrs C to apply  for a new card.  Tesco says thered be no impact  on Mrs 
Cs credit  file if she did this and shed be able to transfer her credit limit to her new card. 
I cant see Mrs C told Tesco  about the bereavement  shed suffered, so I cant  say it 
shouldve taken this into account. But theres  no argument Tesco provided Mrs C with poor 
service overall and shes suffered distress and inconvenience as a result.  So the only issue  
for me to decide is the level of compensation Mrs C should receive. To do that I need to bear 
in mind the impact  on Mrs C as an individual  of the way Tesco  treated her. 
Tesco says it took the poor service their agents provided and the inconvenience of having to 
apply for a new card into account in upholding her complaint and offering her compensation 
of £300. It argues Mrs C hadnt used her card recently before the fraud  happened  so 
cancelling the card had limited  impact on her. 
Mrs Cs told us she was very upset by the way in which she was treated and felt she wasnt  
being listened to. Mrs C told Tesco although  she didnt use credit  cards a lot, she had the 
Tesco credit  card for emergencies. And she says shes chosen not to apply for a new card 
because shes lost trust in Tesco. 
I think Mrs C was very worried and upset by the fraudulent activity on her accounts. She told 
Tesco she was worried and that she was having suicidal thoughts.  And I think the treatment 
she had from Tesco will have added to her distress.  Whilst  I acknowledge information Tesco 
could provide to Mrs C may have been  limited  due to the ongoing  fraud investigation, it 
should have appreciated  Mrs Cs concerns and treated her better. Just because  Mrs C 
hadnt used her card recently doesnt mean she wasnt inconvenienced  by the loss of it. 
Although other issues seem to have been  sorted  out relatively quickly,  having  to apply for a 
new card would have  added to the inconvenience  she had already suffered in her contact 
with Tesco  about  the fraudulent activity on her account. 
Bearing all the circumstances in mind, on balance,  I agree with our investigator  that 
compensation of £500 is fair in all the circumstances. Tesco  has already paid Mrs C £300 so 
I think Tesco should pay her a further  £200.
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to pay Mrs C £200 
compensation, in addition  to the £300 it has already paid her, for distress  and inconvenience 
within 14 days of Mrs C accepting this decision if she chooses to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019. 
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00663933
Ref: DRN0066393