K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about Miss Ps Halifax-branded mortgage with Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Miss P disputes sums of money that have appeared on her mortgage account since 2013. 
She says they relate to a product fee that she paid directly  so it shouldnt be on her account. 
Miss P is also unhappy that, in her view, five months worth  of account transactions are 
missing from her statement  history.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words and rounding some of the figures involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation  requires of 
me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. One reason I have 
left out a lot of the detail  is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer when my decision is 
published. Another is because some of the complaint lies beyond  my remit, for reasons that 
were decided by a fellow ombudsman in a jurisdiction decision in December 2019.  Any 
reference to those aspects in my decision will be for context only.
Miss P has had the mortgage since 2005; it has the facility for the borrower  to take payment 
holidays, and Miss P did this in late 2006 and early 2007. Then,  in 2008, Miss P took a 
ten year fixed rate, which  came with a product  fee of £349. The offer for the fixed-rate deal 
said the fee would be added to the mortgage balance.  
Miss P complained in 2018  after noticing that her account statement showed  an amount of 
about £900 held on a separate account, known as a sub account. Miss P also asked for 
copies of mortgage statements going back to 2012. Halifax  said the sub account  balance 
was the residue of the payment holiday and product fee, and that since  a system migration 
in March 2013, it was itemised separately  from the main account  balance. 
Miss P referred her complaint here;  she said shed  paid the product fee over the counter at 
her local branch in 2008, so it wasnt right for it to be on the mortgage balance.  Miss P was 
also unhappy that the copy  statements were  missing the period from November 2012 to 
March 2013. Halifax said this period was covered in the letter  it sent out in March 2013  
setting out details of the migration.
Halifax objected to us looking  into whether  Miss P had paid the product fee in 2008; it said 
this part of the complaint was time-barred under our rules. My ombudsman colleague 
agreed, and confirmed that our remit was limited to looking  at the accounting  since the 
system migration in 2013 and how Halifax has handled Miss Ps concerns.
The investigator who considered the complaint wasnt persuaded Halifax had done anything 
wrong. Miss P remains unconvinced, and has asked  for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN06645952my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
First of all, Ive no intention of revisiting  the decision my fellow ombudsman reached in 
December 2019  on how much of the complaint we can consider. The charging of a product 
fee in 2008 lies outside our jurisdiction for the reasons he gave.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
new for Miss P, in that Im not persuaded Halifax had done anything wrong either. That said,  
I dont think it was helpful of the investigator, in his view of the complaint, to describe the 
disputed sub account balance as a charge. It was never a new charge in its own right; and 
Ill explain  why.
The system migration  Ive referred  to was a major exercise by Halifax  to move all of its 
mortgage accounts over to a new accounting platform. It took place in March 2013, and 
whilst it didnt change the balances borrowers  owed,  it changed the way those balances 
were presented on borrowers statements. Where previously statements simply showed  the 
total amount owed  as a single figure, now that total was broken down into its individual  
components parts, with each part listed in its own sub account.
In broad terms, under the post-migration system, the core borrowing is held on one sub 
account. In cases  where the core borrowing is split across more than one interest rate 
product, each product will have its own sub account. Meanwhile, any other  ancillary items 
such as product fees, payment holiday balances  or (where applicable) arrears are held 
together in another  sub account. The individual balances of the sub accounts are then 
aggregated to make up the overall balance owing.
In Miss Ps case, this progression can be followed by tracking the opening and closing 
balances from the statements  covering  2012  and 2013. The closing balance  as at 
31 October 2012 (the last full-year pre-migration statement) is a single figure of just under 
£65,600. In March 2013, Halifax  issued  the migration letter  explaining the new system;  that 
letter also included an interim statement for the period since 31 October 2012 (the months  
that Miss P says are missing). It shows the overall  as having fallen to just over £64,000.
The next statement  covers the period from March to October 2013, and is the first statement 
post-migration. It shows the opening  balance as being exactly the same as the figure in the 
interim statement attached to the migration letter  that is, just over £64,000. But now it also 
shows the individual opening balances of the two components (the sub accounts); these are 
just over £63,100 and £900 respectively, the latter being the subject of Miss Ps disquiet.
Ref: DRN06645953Once that progression is observed, its evident  that no new charge has been generated and 
neither had there been any time gap in the account statements. Thats  the essence of why I 
dont uphold Miss Ps complaint; but I do have some final observations.
I get the impression from her comments that when we sent Miss P a copy  of the migration 
letter and interim statement, this may have been  the first time Miss P could recall having  
seen it. If so, then it would explain why she was so concerned and prompted to complain in 
the first place. Its the essential linking piece  that brings sense and context to the change  in 
presentation that accompanied  the migration.
I dont take that to mean Halifax didnt send  the migration letter in March  2013. This was a 
large-scale communication to every  mortgage  holder affected at the time. Its quite possible 
Miss Ps letter went astray in the post and didnt arrive;  its also possible it did arrive and 
Miss P just doesnt  recall it. Either way, however, I cant reasonably find that Halifax has 
done anything  wrong.
Its unfortunate that the complaint Miss P made about how her balances  are presented is 
what also brought to the fore the issue over the product fee that she believes  she paid in 
2008. Given we have no jurisdiction to consider that, I can understand that Miss P will feel 
matters are unresolved.  But I can only act within the powers our rules give me.
Now that Miss P has seen  the migration letter and interim statement, Ive detected that she 
disagrees with the transactions recorded on it. If Miss P believes she made payments in that 
period that arent recorded on the interim statement, shed need to make a new complaint to 
Halifax specifically about that, and then refer it to us if not satisfied with the reply shed 
received.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 August 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0664595