K822xComplaint
Mrs P is unhappy that Unum Ltd (Unum) ended her claim for income protection and with the
effect this had on her.
Background 
Mrs P is a member of a group income protection scheme through her employer. The scheme
provides for Mrs P to be paid a proportion of her income for a maximum of five years  if shes
unable to perform her occupation. She suffered ill health towards the end of 2014 and
received full benefit at the end of the deferred period, followed by proportionate benefit as
she completed a phased return to work. In November 2018 Unum terminated  Mrs Ps
benefit. They said there was no medical  reason that prevented Mrs P from returning to full-
time work. Mrs P disagreed with Unum and provided  medical  evidence  that supported her.
Unum considered the evidence and reversed their decision. They said their decision to
terminate the claim was fair and reasonable based  on the evidence at the time and theyd
reviewed the claim based on medical evidence that wasnt  available  when they ended the
claim. Unum also felt they had properly handled  Mrs Ps claim.
Mrs P was unhappy with Unums initial termination  of her claim and brought  a complaint to
this service. Our investigator said she wouldnt consider Unums  decision to end Mrs Ps
claim, as they had reversed this decision.  But the investigator said Unum had relied on GP
evidence when they should  have  got specialist evidence, as they were  aware  Mrs P saw her
oncologist every six months. In recognition of the stress and inconvenience the termination
of Mrs Ps claim  caused her the investigator  made  an award of £300. After  taking  in to
account Mrs Ps evidence about  the extent of the impact on her the investigator  increased
this award to £500. Unum agreed  to pay this sum.
Mrs P did not accept the investigators opinion. She said the investigator  should  have
considered the original  decision  to terminate the claim and the fact this was the second time
Unum had incorrectly stopped her claim,  compounding the impact.  Mrs P said that Unum
completed a full review  before they accepted  her claim, but not when terminating it. Her
claim was stopped on the basis of limited general  practitioner (GP) evidence, without
consulting her oncologist.  And although  Unum said they later reviewed  the claim as new 
medical evidence  was submitted this evidence was readily available before termination, but
not sought by Unum.
Mrs P also said the investigators opinion  failed to take in to account the life-changing impact
the termination had on her in terms of her health, her financial position  and her reputation.
By the time Unum reinstated the claim Mrs P says the damage  was done. Unums  decision
led to Mrs P being off work completely when she had been making good progress on a
phased return to work plan. Mrs P feels that had her claim not been  terminated she might
have returned  to full time hours  by the time benefit  ceases after five years in May 2020. She
would like Unum to pay more compensation and extend her benefit period.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on 1 April 2020  and said, 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not asking Unum to
do anything more.
Ref: DRN04645622I need to decide whether Unum acted  reasonably  in terminating Mrs Ps income protection
claim and the effect of the decision on Mrs P. Im mindful of the fact its for Unum to
demonstrate Mrs P no longer met the definition of incapacity rather  than for Mrs P to show
she continued to do so.
Although Mrs P says Unum only sought GP evidence for a very limited  period in August and
September 2018 this is not the case.  In July 2018  Unum sought GP records  from 1 March to
the date of release and then in September 2018 from 1 August to the date of dispatch.
Having reviewed these  records, I agree they dont include significant entries in relation to the
main factor preventing Mrs P from returning  to full-time hours  fatigue. But in the
circumstances of this case Im not surprised by that. I consider Mrs P was clear and
consistent in her reporting of what prevented her from increasing her hours  from 28 to 35. In
September 2018 Mrs P said in a phone  call with Unum that she wasnt  able to return
because of fatigue and needed  Friday as a rest day. Mrs P explained  she coped at work  but
fell asleep when she got home. Mrs P was asked to complete a questionnaire in October
2018. She said her symptoms of fatigue and impaired  concentration were intermittent, but
always present to a degree. Mrs P explained  she was due to see her oncologist  in 
January 2019.
I accept that fatigue  is difficult  to assess.  For this reason, I believe it would have been
prudent for Unum to have  sought evidence from the person best placed  to assess  Mrs Ps
level of functioning   in this case her oncologist. Unum were  aware,  because  Mrs P told
them and because  she was supported  in her return to work by Unums  rehabilitation
consultants, that Mrs P saw her oncologist every  six months, but chose to terminate benefit
a month  before Mrs Ps next review. Im not persuaded  the other evidence available
supported Unums decision to do so.
Having concluded  that Unum did not act reasonably in terminating  Mrs Ps claim I need  to go
on to consider the impact on her. I should  point  out that Im only looking at the circumstances
of this case, so will not be commenting on the previous  time Unum terminated benefit.  I do
accept though that the anxiety Mrs P has suffered is likely to have been compounded by the
fact this wasnt the first time Unum had terminated  her claim.
When Unum terminated Mrs Ps claim they wrote to her employer, as the policyholder,  to say
they had reviewed her claim and decided there  was no reason why she could not return to
work if she was motivated  to do so. Mrs P says Unum insulted her integrity, damaged her
reputation at work and impacted on her relationship with the management  team. I
understand Mrs Ps strong feelings about this matter. Its also clear  that Unums  decision
caused significant stress and anxiety, as well as inconvenience in providing evidence  in
support of an appeal.  I note that she would accept  £10,000 and feels  anything  less is not
equitable. I accept  Mrs Ps representations  about the impact this matter  has had on her. And
I fully accept that compensation is due here, but I consider £500  to be a reasonable level of
compensation in all the circumstances of this case,  so Im not asking  Unum  to do anything
more.
Although Mrs P says Unum should  extend  the five-year benefit term beyond  May 2020, I
dont agree. By backdating payments to the date benefit ceased and paying  interest  on the
backdated payments  Unum have financially put Mrs P in the position she would  have been
in had they not ceased her benefit  payments. I understand  Mrs P was working 28 hours a
week when Unum terminated her benefit  in December 2018 but from April 2019 Mrs P was
unable to work at all. As a result,  Mrs P says that although she may have returned to full-
time hours by May 2020, shes now unlikely to do so. Whilst I think its fair to say Unums
Ref: DRN04645623termination of Mrs Ps claim impacted her health, its difficult  to conclude that solely because
of Unums decision Mrs P was unable to work  at all some months  later. I also dont consider
its possible to speculate  whether, but for Unums  termination of her claim, Mrs P would have
returned to full time work by May 2020. So Im not asking Unum  to extend the benefit period
beyond May 2020.
Responses to my provisional findings
Mrs P didnt accept my provisional  findings. She said:
-She was extremely disappointed with my findings, which were wrong;
-I had failed to understand the devastation  caused by Unums  termination of her 
claim. Mrs P had changed as a person, lost confidence in her private and 
professional life and effectively  lost a year of her life;
-The medical evidence  Unum relied on to reinstate the claim was available before 
they terminated the claim;
-Mrs P questioned whether the comments made by Unum  about her motivation to 
work were libellous and also questioned why I couldnt see that it was Unum  who 
werent motivated  to pay the claim;
-The termination of a previous claim was material to the termination of this one. Unum  
knew Mrs Ps condition  was potentially life-long and the upset and impact of the 
second termination would greater following the first termination;
-There was no doubt Mrs Ps stamina and ability to work would have continued to 
improve were  it not for Unums  termination  of her claim; 
-It was beyond comprehension  for me to say I couldnt conclude that solely because 
of the termination of the claim Mrs P was unable to work  some months later;
-I was also wrong  to conclude it wasnt possible to speculate  whether Mrs P would  
have returned  to full-time  work by May 2020.  Shed have worked  at least 28 hours  a 
week and was leading  to 35 hours;
-If Im unable  to recognise the full impact  of Unums termination of Mrs Ps claim I 
should get evidence from Maggies or her oncologist;
-Mrs P referred to the information on our website relating to non-financial loss and 
said it cant be right that her claim falls in the moderate band,  rather  than extreme;
-In awarding Mrs P £500  I referred  to the significant stress and anxiety Unums 
decision caused and the inconvenience  in obtaining medical  evidence.  But the 
amount I awarded didnt cover the administrative time lost in obtaining medical 
evidence and appealing;
-I failed to award compensation for libel, reputational damage, stress, financial 
uncertainty and the impact on Mrs Ps general well-being.  
Unum accepted my provisional findings  and said they had no additional points to make.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
decision as in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. 
Ill explain  in more detail  and respond to Mrs Ps points. 
Mrs P noted  in her response to my provisional  decision  that the errors made by Unum  were 
not as a result of an accidental breach of trust and any inference Unum  can be excused is 
Ref: DRN04645624wrong. Ive concluded  Unum shouldnt have terminated Mrs Ps claim when  they did, but my 
role is not to punish  Unum or to assess their motivation when  they dont pay claims. 
The real issue in this case is how much I have awarded Mrs P for the stress,  anxiety, 
damage and losses  caused by Unums  decision to terminate her claim. Id like to make  it 
clear I accept the impact  was significant and wide-ranging. I believe my award reflects  this 
and takes in to account the effect on Mrs Ps health  and well-being and the time taken,  and 
inconvenience caused, by needing  to appeal. 
I turn now to the examples  of non-financial loss published on our website. Mrs P said the 
award I recommended in my provisional  decision  was moderate, which is the lowest bracket. 
But the award I made in my provisional decision was in the substantial bracket (£500 to 
£2,000). The example given on our website  for a substantial award  relates to considerable 
embarrassment, upset  and inconvenience,  which is what  I think Mrs P suffered as a result  of 
Unums decision to terminate her claim. And although Mrs P thinks  Ive not taken in to 
account factors like reputational damage, stress and the impact  on her well-being  this is not 
the case. The award I made takes all these  factors in to account.  
Mrs P has suggested I get further  evidence of the impact of Unums decision on her. It was 
for Mrs P to provide evidence from Maggies  or her oncologist  if she wished, but I dont think  
this evidence would be useful, because I believe Mrs P has clearly set out the impact the 
decision had on her and I accept what she says. 
In this decision I can only consider the termination of Mrs Ps claim in November 2018  and 
not an earlier termination. But I do accept the effect  of the second termination is increased 
because of Mrs Ps previous experience  and have taken this in to account when determining  
the compensation to award to Mrs P. 
Mrs P has questioned whether comments made  by Unum to her employer are libellous. This 
is not something for me to decide, as its a matter for the courts. In considering  an award for 
the trouble and upset caused to Mrs P though, Ive taken in to account her belief that 
damage has been caused to her reputation at work and the effect  of this on Mrs P. 
Mrs Ps policy provides benefit  for a maximum period of five years, which  will end in 
May 2020. Mrs P has asked that this period  be extended. She points out that she was 
working 28 hours a week when her claim was terminated in 2018 and would have continued 
to do so or increased  her hours by the time benefit ceased. But because of Unums 
termination of her claim Mrs P was unable to work at all from April 2019. Mrs P has since 
returned to work and is increasing her hours.  
Part of Mrs Ps appeal following the termination of her claim was based on the fact her 
oncologist said her fatigue may last for life. Given this I still dont consider I can conclude 
that, on balance,  were it not for Unums  decision  to terminate  her claim Mrs P would have  
returned to full-time work by May 2020. In any event,  while  Mrs P was unable  to work 
following the termination of her claim  Unum paid Mrs P full benefit and then partial benefit as 
she returned. In doing so, Unum have met their obligations under Mrs Ps employers policy. 
I cant reasonably ask them to also extend Mrs Ps benefit period. 
It is clear Unums  decision to terminate Mrs Ps benefit had a significant  impact on her and 
that compensation is due. But for the reasons given I consider £500 to be the right amount of 
compensation in all the circumstances of this case.  
Ref: DRN04645625My final decision
My final decision is Unum  Ltd should  pay Mrs P £500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0464562