K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Citifinancial Europe  Plc (CitiFinancial) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr T took out a loan with CitiFinancial in 2003. The PPI policy  was sold to Mr T at the same  
time in connection with this loan.
The policy was a single premium policy. This means  that the cost of the policy was added  to 
the loan and interest was charged on it. It wouldve covered  Mr T for the remaining term of 
the loan if he was off work sick and for up to 12 months per claim if he lost his job. It also 
provided life cover.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint because he didnt think  that CitiFinancial had made the 
costs of the policy clear  to Mr T. 
CitiFinancial disagreed with our adjudicator  because  it says it made  the costs clear  and that 
it cant be presumed that Mr T wouldnt have bought the policy  given the manner in which it 
was sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
CitiFinancial had to provide  Mr T with information  in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so 
that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he wanted  to take the policy out.
I dont think CitiFinancial gave Mr T clear information about the costs  of the policy. I wouldve 
expected at the very least for it to provide the cost of the PPI premium, the interest  to be 
charged on it and the total cost of the policy. 
CitiFinancial havent  provided us with the actual documents from the time of the sale.
Instead its provided us with sample insurance application forms. But the ones that break 
down the costs as Ive described are all dated  years after this sale took place. So I cant  rely 
on them  as being  representative of what Mr T would  have seen.
Ive also considered the sample credit agreements  provided. Again I cant  rely on the sample 
credit agreements dated years after this sale took place because  I cant  fairly say they 
represent the type of credit agreement that Mr T wouldve seen. And anyway, even  these 
later credit agreements dont present the cost of the PPI as they shouldve.
Having said this, Ive thought about whether Mr T wouldve taken  the policy if CitiFinancial 
had properly told him about the costs. I think that, if CitiFinancial had given Mr T enough 
information about the cost, hed have understood that the loan amount was being increased  
Ref: DRN04251922considerably because the PPI cost was being added to it and that the total cost of the PPI 
was significantly higher because of the interest  being added to it. 
I think that if CitiFinancial had given Mr T the information on costs as it shouldve, Mr T 
wouldnt have taken  the policy. This is because  I think Mr T wouldve thought  the policy was 
expensive and not good value for money, particularly when compared to the amount he was 
borrowing. So I uphold this complaint.
what the business should  do to put things right
Mr T borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve  been. He 
paid more than he shouldve each month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it 
wouldve. So Mr T needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, CitiFinancial should:
Work  out and pay Mr T the difference between what he paid each month  on the 
loan and what he wouldve paid without  PPI.  
Work  out and pay Mr T the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have  cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr T paid from when he paid it until he 
gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, CitiFinancial can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires CitiFinancial to take off tax from this interest. 
CitiFinancial must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ts complaint, and to direct CitiFinancial Europe  
Plc to put things  right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0425192