K820x#14complaint
Mr Js complaint is about the Market Value Adjustment (MVA) that Phoenix Life Assurance 
Limited wants to apply to his pension plan if he transfers it elsewhere. He is particularly 
concerned that the MVA is in excess of 30% of the fund value and so effectively prevents 
him from transferring. And he says the MVA  clause was added after hed taken out the plan.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 February  2019.  The background and 
circumstances to the complaint, and the reasons  for my provisional finding that I didnt intend 
to uphold it were set out in that decision.  A copy is attached and it forms part of this final 
decision.
I asked both parties to provide any more evidence  or arguments  that they wanted me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.  
Phoenix responded to say that it had no further comments to add. 
Mr J didnt provide any further evidence or arguments for me to consider.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from my provisional finding  that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr Js complaint is about the Market  Value  Adjustment (MVA)  that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited 
wants to apply  to his pension  plan if he transfers it elsewhere. He is particularly concerned that the 
MVA is in excess  of 30% of the fund value and so effectively prevents him from transferring. And he 
says the MVA  clause was added after hed taken out the plan.
background
Mr J started his pension plan in 1990. It was invested  in a with-profits fund. My understanding is that 
Mr J took it out on the advice of a financial adviser  who worked for a different firm to Phoenix.
Ref: DRN02468892Mr J complained to the firm about the application of an MVA  in 2017. Phoenix said that its actuaries 
had made  the decision to apply an MVA in 2002. And that this was in accordance  with Clauses 15 
and 17 in the pension  policy  document. 
Clause 15 in particular provided:
15. Transfer Value
(a)(i) At any time during the currency of this policy  before  the pension date,  the member shall 
have the option to instruct NPI to pay the value of the accrued benefits  under  this policy to 
another authorised  pension scheme or contract.  That value must be used to provide benefits  
approved by the Board. 
(ii) In this event the allocation of units to this policy will be cancelled at the bid price 
applicable on the working day after the receipt by NPI at its principle office on the written 
instructions of the member  in a form satisfactory to NPI. If the member  has not attained the 
age of sixty five at the date of cancellation, the following adjustments will be made:-
  (AA) a deduction as determined  by the Actuary will be made from the value of initial units 
allocated to this policy, or, if no initial units exist,  ordinary units allocated in respect of regular  
contributions (for this purpose, each increase in contributions by endorsement  shall be 
treated as contributions to a separate  policy) and
(BB) the value of any cancelled  units in the with-profit fund will be determined by the Actuary. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Phoenix originally said that the application of an MVA was in accordance with Clauses 15 and 17 of 
the policy  terms  and conditions.  Mr J wants to transfer  his plan. Given  theres  specific provision 
covering the conditions that apply on transfer, Im satisfied  its Clause 15 thats relevant  here. It deals 
with how the value of the pension policy will be calculated at the point of cancellation and transfer. 
I think  whats  key is the following part of Clause 15 {my emphasis in bold}
If the member has not attained the age of sixty five at the date of cancellation, the following  
adjustments will be made:-
  (AA) a deduction as determined  by the Actuary will be made from the value of initial units 
allocated to this policy, or, if no initial units exist,  ordinary units allocated in respect of regular  
contributions (for this purpose, each increase in contributions by endorsement  shall be 
treated as contributions to a separate  policy) and
(BB) the value of any cancelled  units in the with-profit fund will be determined by the Actuary. 
The clause refers  to adjustments in the plural,  and separates the two charges in sub-clauses (AA) 
and (BB).  The use of the word and further supports the interpretation that there are two separate  
adjustments that can be applied. So Im satisfied this provides for Phoenix to apply  separate 
adjustments where a transfer is made before  aged 65. 
When this policy was sold the term market value  adjustment (MVA)  was not as commonly  used.  
Whilst there is no express reference to an MVA in these terms  by name, Clause (BB) does allow for 
an actuarial reduction  to units cancelled in the with-profits fund.  And this Clause is consistent with the 
later terms  that referred to it specifically as an MVA  (starting around 1992). 
Ref: DRN02468893Mr J has said that there was a change in the contract terms in 2002 which  he wasnt notified about. 
However I dont think there was any variation to Mr Js contract after it had started  - provision for an 
actuarial reduction  (subsequently  called  an MVA) on transfer before  aged 65 had always been 
included in the contract.  But it was only in 2002 that the actuary started to apply  one.
As Phoenix has explained, an MVA may be used where  the current  value of a plan is greater than the 
plan's fair share of the underlying investments. Part of Mr Js particular with-profits  plan provides a 
minimum guaranteed  growth rate of 4% a year. This is a valuable benefit. Even if the underlying fund 
falls in value, Mr J can rely on this guarantee when he gets to 65. So if the headline  value of his plan 
reflecting this guarantee is higher than the underlying  value  of Mr Js fair share  of the fund, then an 
actuarial reduction  (MVA) may be applied if the benefits are transferred prior to age 65. 
With-profits funds have attracted criticism for their lack of transparency.  I understand Mr Js 
suspicions about the level of the MVA as it is very difficult for policyholders  to satisfy themselves that 
they are receiving what they are entitled to under the terms of their investments. That doesnt mean, 
however, that the business has got something wrong. 
Phoenix is accountable to the industry regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority  FCA)  for the way 
in which it operates its with-profits fund (in accordance  with its Principles  and Practices of Financial 
Management document) and the regulator monitors the management  of it. Businesses are required to 
appoint a with-profits  actuary and the FCA provides rules and guidance  on their duties. Phoenix also 
has an independent With-Profits Committee whose remit is to protect the interests of the with-profits 
policyholders and ensure that they are treated  fairly. 
In this case Phoenix says the underlying  value of the fund is lower than the face value because  the 
investments have not grown as much  as the 4% annual growth guaranteed  in the policy terms. I 
understand Mr Js concern  that its so high. However this isnt inconsistent with this type of plan,  
where guarantees are provided  at retirement. Once Mr J reaches age 65 he will be entitled to the full 
guaranteed value of the fund and no MVA will be applied.
My understanding is that Mr J was advised to take out the plan by a firm other than Phoenix.  It was 
the advising firm that was obliged to ensure the plan was suitable for Mr J and that he was alerted to 
its workings and material features. Clearly  I cannot  know  whether  it explained  there was a risk that 
there might be an actuarial  reduction to the value  of the plan (MVA) under  certain  circumstances.  
However these matters cant be considered  with the benefit of hindsight,  and when the policy was 
sold in 1990 the risk of such an application  would  have appeared low. 
Mr J has also referred  to provisions of the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 and the Competition & Markets  
Authority guidance in relation to unfair contract terms. However Mr J entered  into his contract in 1990 
which pre-dates the Consumer  Rights Act 2015, so its provisions dont apply.
I realise that Mr J will be disappointed with my findings. However after having  carefully considered the 
matter, Im satisfied that Phoenix is entitled to apply the MVA in the particular circumstances of this 
case.
my provisional  decision
Accordingly, my provisional decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0246889