K822xcomplaint
Miss D complains that charges Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS) applied 
at the end of her car lease  hire were unfair. She would like the charges waived.
background 
Miss D says that she took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with VWFS in March  2015. She 
says she returned  her car at the end of the lease hire in 2018.  And at this point took out a 
further agreement  with VWFS for another car. 
She says she was told her car would be inspected. But that she would be given the 
opportunity to get a quote for any repair work. And that minor scuffs  and scratches  would be 
classified as fair wear  and tear and therefore  not charged for.
She says she heard  nothing after the inspection. But a month  later she got an invoice for 
£1,044.72 for damage over and above fair wear and tear. She says VFWS took this money 
from her account without her permission.
She says she doesnt feel she had the opportunity to arrange  an independent quote or to 
arrange for repairs to be carried  out her. She feels the charges are unfair and would like 
them waived.
VWFS said its charges fell within BVRLA guidelines. And that it asked customers  to look at 
these guidelines before vehicles are inspected so they have  an opportunity to have any 
repair work carried out.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
-There were  a number of issues for me to consider - the fairness of the charges 
VWFS applied,  the fact VWFS took payment for the charges, selling the car without 
carrying out repairs, and the fact Miss D says she had no opportunity  to make good 
any repair work herself.
-In terms of the charges VWFS applied I couldnt be sure if Miss R got the letter 
VWFS sent detailing the inspection  and return process. The letter  WVFS gave us 
was dated 30 January  2019  some months  after Miss D handed her car back.
-VWFS inspects  its cars against BVRLA Guidelines, a standard  practice in the car 
industry. The inspection  report  listed all of the damage VWFS charged for. I checked  
BVRLA Guidelines. Based on the Guidelines, the report  and the photos in the report  I 
felt the charges VWFS applied were  fair. They all related  to damage that BVRLA 
deems to be outside of fair wear  and tear. 
-Miss D couldnt evidence a guarantee she felt she had been that she wouldnt be 
charged for scratches  to her car. Or that she was pressured into taking out a new 
agreement.
Ref: DRN00941342-It would  have been sensible for Miss D to have waited for the outcome of the 
inspection to be sure if any charges were to be applied before she took out her new 
agreement.
-In terms of VWFS taking payment for the charges  the contract Miss D signed stated 
she would be eligible for any damage over and above fair wear and tear. So I didnt 
feel VWFS were  wrong  to take payment for the charges.
-In terms of taking the car back and selling it at auction without carrying out any 
repairs that was s a commercial decision for VWFS to take.  BVRLA guidelines make 
it clear that businesses can still apply charges even if a business decides  not to 
repair any damage before  a vehicle is sold. I didnt feel VWFS  did anything wrong in 
selling the car as it did.
-With regard to the fact Miss D had no chance to make  good any repairs  to the car 
herself. I asked VWFS to confirm  the dates  the car was inspected and collected  since  
these werent clear to me. It confirmed an inspection was booked on 3 September 
2018, carried out on 10 September 2018  and the car was collected  on 11 September 
2018. That supported Miss Ds point that the car was collected the day after the 
inspection.
-As VWFS didnt  give us copies  of any post inspection correspondence with Miss D I 
found Miss Ds comments that she had no further contact  from VWFS until 
approximately a month later when  she discovered it had charged  her for £1,044.72 
for damage to her car credible.
-The letter VWFS  sent Miss D dated  30 January  2019 stated  that refurbishment 
charges would be invoiced separately following the inspection  of the car. And that 
inspection and collection are arranged on separate dates to allow the opportunity  for 
any remedial work  to be carried out. Also that any repairs  carried  out must be done 
by an authorised repairer and that VWFS  would then review  the inspection  results. It 
was clear to me that even if Miss D didnt get that letter VWFSs  process involves a 
period of time in which customers could chose to get repairs done  themselves.
-Miss D had no opportunity to make good any repairs herself. And I had no evidence 
to show Miss D agreed to her car being taken back the day after inspection  therefore 
waiving any opportunity to consider doing  this.
-It wasnt reasonable to ask VWFS to waive the cost of the repairs since  it has 
evidenced there was damage for which it could  charge. I thought  if Miss D been 
aware of the charge for this she might have  sought  to get the work done  elsewhere. 
This may have  been cheaper although  there was no guarantee of this. But I thought 
as she didnt have  the chance  to do this it would be appropriate  for VWFS to pay 
£250 compensation as a gesture of goodwill.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both VWFS and Miss D have come back to me with comments following on from my 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN00941343VWFS has confirmed  it did send Miss D a handback  letter  dated 30 August 2018 and has 
given us a copy  of this. As its correctly dated  I have no reason to think Miss D wouldnt have 
got this letter.
The letter states  Miss D would be provided  with the copy of the inspection report and could 
chose to have  any remedial work  carried out herself.  And that final confirmation of any 
applicable charges would  be sent to Miss D separately.  
VWFS says it believes Miss D had the car inspected  at her home address so would have 
been aware of any damage straight away. Miss D has always told us that the car was 
inspected at the garage where she got her new car from. And she wasnt  present  at the 
inspection.
I accept VWFS view that Miss D could have arranged  for the inspection  and collection of her 
car with sufficient time in between to allow her to consider any making  good  any repairs.  But 
Miss D has told us her car was collected  without her permission.  
In her response to my view Miss D has reiterated that she was told she would either get a 
report or a phone call about any damage  but got neither. 
I dont have any evidence  to allow me to conclude where the car was inspected,  if the car 
was taken the day after inspection with Miss Ds agreement or not or if Miss D was told she 
would get a report or phone call after the inspection. . 
I have seen a copy of the report  but no evidence of when or if it was sent to Miss D. On that 
basis I cant be sure that Miss D got the report.   If she had I believe she would  have 
challenged the charges  straight away. 
Miss D has previously told us that she felt pressured into taking out a new agreement. And 
that she was assured  she wouldnt  have  been  charged for scratches and scuffs.  She hasnt 
been able to evidence that  thats not surprising since it was a conversation. But I think  its 
unlikely she would have  allowed her car to be collected if she thought she was going to incur 
some significant charges.
Whilst I accept   VWFS  sent Miss D a letter explaining its return  process I am still not 
persuaded Miss D was made aware  of the charges   either by phone  or by getting a copy of 
the report in time for her to challenge  them or to consider any remedial action herself as she 
should have been.. Had she been  made  aware straight away  there were issues  I think  its 
likely she would have delayed collection to give her time to consider this.
Miss D has suggested she would be happy  to accept  a payment of £500,  she doesnt feel 
the £250 I suggested as a gesture of goodwill was reasonable. She doesnt feel she had the 
opportunity to follow the correct protocol and says had she not been assured that her car 
wouldnt incur any charges she wouldnt have taken out the new agreement.
I appreciate Miss Ds comments but she could have waited until she was sure if she was 
going to be charged for any damage  before entering  into a new agreement. I appreciate  she 
says she was pressured to do so but it was still ultimately Miss Ds choice to go ahead  with a 
new agreement or not. So I dont feel that is sufficient grounds  for me to say VWFS  should  
pay more than the £250 I suggested in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN00941344I am still of the view that a gesture of goodwill payment is reasonable in this case. And that 
£250 is the appropriate amount. I cant be sure if any remedial work Miss D might have 
carried out would have resulted in a smaller charge than VWFSs But I feel there is sufficient  
confusion over what information she was given for me to conclude that she had no 
opportunity to look into any remedial action. On that basis I think a gesture of goodwill is 
reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited should pay Miss D 
£250 as a gesture of goodwill.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2020
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0094134